ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! I think you won't mind if we start the third working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu by welcoming Eston Suitcase on his return home and also saying thank you to the executive. Thank you also to all those members of the Riigikogu who kept up the subject at various events and in their official presentations, as well as in various conversations. I have another message, it's a different kind. The basketball team of the Riigikogu won the tournament of the Baltic Parliaments for the ninth year in a row. [[Let's hear it.]] But now you can hand over drafts and inquiries. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law on environmental monitoring. In the Riigikogu, Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of the fisheries market. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse in the proceedings of the above-mentioned bill in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft Social Welfare Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Protection Margus Tsahkna when the bill is being processed. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Law on state fees. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Sven Sester when the last two draft laws are processed in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U3	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U4	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! There are often words in this Chamber that express concern about the lack of protection of children and young people. At the same time, the legislator has mostly remained at the level of rhetoric and no action has been achieved from words to actions. The Estonian Centre Party Group proposes to take practical steps to protect children and young people. Honourable Riigikogu, I would ask for your support for the decision to propose to the Government of the Republic a draft banning the sale of energy drinks to young people under 16 years of age. This would limit the availability of energy drinks especially among young people who may not understand their harm. In most EU countries, young people are advised not to consume energy drinks, as this could have negative consequences. The Commission Directive on the labelling of foodstuffs containing quinine and caffeine is currently in force in the countries of the European Union. Under the Directive, beverages containing more than 150 milligrams of caffeine per litre must bear the indication 'high caffeine content' in the same field of vision as the product's name. From 13 September 2014, high-caffeinated drinks and foods with caffeine added should be labelled as follows: 'High caffeine levels are not recommended for children, pregnant women and breastfeeding women. ' This indication must be included in the same field of vision as the name of the drink, in addition to a reference to the caffeine content. Businesses also recognise the problem. Real life has shown that some businesses have taken voluntary steps to limit the availability of energy drinks. In 2012, Rimi's chain of stores banned the sale of energy drinks to under 16-year-olds, which set the example for the rest of Estonia. Other major supermarkets, such as Selver, Prisma and Maxima, felt that such a restriction should be laid down at the level of the law, and they do not feel that it needs to be established on its own. The legislator's initiative is therefore clearly expected.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U5	Thanks, you can take the initiative now. It's a minute. Dear Riigikogu, I have adopted six draft laws and we will proceed with them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 79 members of the Riigikogu are present, 22 are missing. Go on, fix the agenda. Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention! The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu has proposed to add the following to the agenda of this working week: to add the first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Special Committee on Security Supervision' submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group as the fourth item of the Tuesday session. The second proposal is to include the second item on the agenda for the Thursday sitting as the second item on the agenda. Along with these amendments, honourable Riigikogu, I will put the weekly agenda to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. There were 76 parliamentarians in favour of the draft agenda, no respondents and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U6	The first item on today's agenda is the inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Jaanus Kariladi, Kadri Simson, Mailis Reps, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velman, Dmitri Dmitrijev, Enn Eesmaa, Martin Repinski, Erki Savisaare, Lauri Laas, Priit Toobali, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Toomas Vitsut and Mikhail Korb to the Auditor of State and the enquiry concerning the objectives and supervision of the Ministry of Defence's public procurement. On behalf of the heirs, Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U7	Ladies and gentlemen, In the middle of May, our MEPs and I submitted an inquiry to Auditor General Alar Karis. This concerns the objectives and monitoring of the Ministry of Defence's public procurement. We know that the Ministry of Defence manages large-scale procurements, the quality and purpose of which must be based on legislation, development plans and strategies. The National Audit Office has made substantive and organisational complaints to the Ministry of Defence over several years, but experts believe that the control and supervision of the administration of the Ministry of Defence has been superficial and inefficient. A few years ago during the discussion of the state budget, the National Audit Office submitted an additional request for money to the Ministry of Finance for the first time in order to ensure the capacity of auditing in the fields of defence and internal security. According to the National Audit Office, it is essential to increase the scope and frequency of audits in the fields of defence and internal security. It is in the interests of the Riigikogu, the government and the taxpayer that, based on the audits carried out by the National Audit Office, you can be sure that the costs of national defence and internal security are targeted and create real security. In addition to this introduction, we also have four questions and are waiting for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U8	Auditor General Alar Karis will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U9	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On 13 May this year, 18 members of the Central Party of the Riigikogu submitted to me an inquiry into the procurement and supervision of the Ministry of Defence. I will answer the questions in the order in which they are presented. The first question: 'To what extent has the National Audit Office been able to audit public procurement in the Ministry of Defence in the last three years? How do you assess their feasibility in terms of enhancing the capabilities of the armed forces? What changes do you suggest? ' The National Audit Office audits each year the accuracy of the accounts report of the Ministry of Defence and the compliance of transactions with the State Budget Act, the annual figures confirmed by the Act and the State Property Act and the Public Procurement Act. In the verification of public procurement in financial audits, the National Audit Office tests selectively whether acquisitions above the thresholds in the Public Procurement Act have complied with the procedure prescribed by the Act and whether the general principles of the Act and internal procedures in force in the Ministry have been respected in the case of small volumes of purchases. During financial audits, we do not assess the feasibility of public procurement from the point of view of enhancing the capabilities of defence forces, as it is out of the focus of the normal financial audit and requires a specially prepared audit team. In the financial audit that ended this year, we found that the principles of the Public Procurement Act have generally been observed in the area of administration of the Ministry of Defence. It is a good thing that the organisation of procurement has improved compared to previous years, and we have detected less of the breach of the Public Procurement Act in the audit. However, there are still problems. For example, in the last audit, we identified the failure to organise a procurement procedure in three cases, the non-compliance with simple procurement requirements in nine cases and the failure to submit reports to the public procurement register in two cases. When analysing the cases of cancellations of purchases presented in the audit, we came to the conclusion that the lack of cooperation between the Ministry and the Defence Forces units led to the cancellation of procurements. From these observations you can read more about the report of the audit "The accuracy of the Annual Accounts 2014 and the legality of transactions of the Ministry of Defence', which has been sent to the Special Committee on State Budget Control and published on the website of the National Audit Office. The second question: 'How do you assess the organisational aspect of public procurement in the Ministry of Defence? How do you assess the initial tasks set out in procurements and whether they take into account the changed international situation, new threat assessments, national defence development plan, different strategies, or are too inflexible and rigidly linked to a work plan approved by the Ministry? " Much of what concerns the substantive compatibility of defence procurement with the long-term objectives of defence and the feasibility of public procurement from the point of view of enhancing the capabilities of defence forces is, first, state secrecy and, second, a separate audit. Therefore, I can only answer the question in general and to the extent that the information available to the National Audit Office is based on audits and monitoring carried out previously. The partly secret audit carried out in the spring of 2013 on the effectiveness of the establishment, maintenance and renewal of the reserves necessary to increase the military capabilities and mobilization of the Defence Forces in the years 2009 to 2012 referred to important problems in the implementation of the long-term development plan in force at that time, the 'War Defence Development Plan 2009 to 2018'. There were no specific action plans, no realistic budget and no long-term procurement plans to implement this development plan. Between 2009 and 2012, procurement was carried out on the basis of a one-year procurement plan and there was no longer a long-term view for both the Ministry and the Defence Forces. I can also say that for years both the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Minister of Defence lacked an up-to-date overview of whether the military units were properly manned, equipped with everything necessary and ready to be formed. Since the beginning of 2013, a new document called the State Protection Development Plan for the years 2013 to 2022 is in force, the Military Protection Plan. The long-term objectives of capacity building for defence forces set out therein are also a strategic basis for procurement under the Ministry of Defence. It is also known that a four-year procurement plan has been drawn up in anticipation since 2013. As I said earlier, the National Audit Office has not audited the implementation of the objectives of the current National Defence Development Plan. As the topic of national defence is important, representatives of the National Audit Office have met representatives of the Ministry of Defence and discussed with them the implementation of the current national defence development plan and the changed security situation. The representatives of the Ministry of Defence have confirmed to the National Audit Office that the international security situation and the change in threat assessments have not been such as to ignore the threat scenarios of the current 10-year national defence development plan and their response measures. According to the representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the long-term development of the National Defence Development Plan and Defence Forces and the resulting procurement activities are in line with threat assessments. According to the Ministry's officials, some of the time priorities for procurement related to the development of military capabilities have also been modified according to circumstances and capabilities. Question 3: 'How has the National Audit Office developed competence in its own organisation that would allow competent supervision and assessment of military procurement? What new control mechanisms do you propose to implement for the better functioning of the Ministry of Defence? ' The National Audit Office attaches great importance to auditing the implementation of the long-term objectives of defence and the content of defence procurement. For example, more attention should be paid to "exceptional procurements" which require significant amounts from the Ministry of Defence's budget. The results of the audit of defence agencies in several NATO countries have pointed to significant problems in the planning and organisation of such procurements. An example is the compliance of the recipient with long-term objectives and budgetary opportunities. In Estonia, too, our financial audit has revealed problems with exceptional procurement on the basis of random checks. At the moment, the National Audit Office has sufficient resources to conduct a financial audit every year in the area of government of the Ministry of Defence, where, among other things, compliance with the Public Procurement Act is verified. The questions raised in the inquiry, however, are mostly in the area of performance audit. To carry out performance audits in the fields of defence and internal security, our resources are very limited. It is clear that a consistent and more in-depth audit of the area requires the creation of a sector-specific, constantly monitored and highest level state secret licences and a NATO classified information access certificate team. Yes, of course it can be said that you should send environmental or cultural or educational auditors to audit military defence. But I doubt the result would be what would please you in this Chamber. The need for national defence, internal security and security auditing was stressed to me by the members of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu when I was before them as a candidate for Auditor General. We have repeatedly requested money to set up a team specialising in auditing in the field of defence and internal security. This, by the way, is also for the creation of a team for auditing public undertakings, but it is not today's subject. Letters have been exchanged on this subject, the subject is covered by the Special Committee on State Budget Control of the Riigikogu as well as the Finance Committee and, of course, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Defence. The Special Committee on State Budget Control discussed the development plan of audits in the field of the National Audit Office for the years 2013 to 2015 already two years ago, on 11 March 2013. The Commission recognised that a more thorough audit of state-owned companies, state aid and defence, internal security and security is essential and decided to support the subsequent applications of the National Audit Office. The Riigikogu commission also officially announced the above. I quote from the letter of the Riigikogu: 'The Special Committee on Audit of the State Budget, composed of representatives of the Group of the Reform Party, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, the Group of the Centre Party, the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Democrats of the Community, unanimously supports the request to supplement the budget of the National Audit Office's operating expenditure in the above areas by 268672 euros in 2014 and 443127 euros in 2015 and beyond. ' So the representatives of all the political groups in the Riigikogu found this necessary. Unfortunately, there was no result. The fourth and final question: 'How much do you think the National Audit Office's funding should be increased to ensure the capacity of auditing in the fields of defence and internal security? ' During the negotiations on both the 2005 and 2016 budgets, we requested an additional EUR 250000 to increase the capacity to audit the fields of defence, internal security and security. The result is zero again. I am very sorry that the members of the government did not consider the request of the National Audit Office worthy of support this year. It is now possible for the Riigikogu to say its word. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U10	Questions for the Auditor General. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U11	Thank you. Does the National Audit Office carry out any monitoring of its audits? And if so, will any conclusions be drawn from these audits and put into practice? Is such monitoring necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U12	The National Audit Office monitors and monitors whether our proposals have been taken into account. And, as I mentioned earlier, some changes have also been introduced into the development plans, and in addition, these procurements are now made with a four-year outlook. They used to be one-year-olds. Other examples can be found. But what we cannot assess is whether these sums have been used in a meaningful and sufficiently effective way, given the budget of the Defence Forces allocated by the Riigikogu, which has increased by 9% since last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U13	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U14	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The question is quite cruel: the battle situation, the gun is failing; the battle situation, the grenade is failing; the battle situation, the armored car engine is dying out; the battle situation, the bullet is failing. Battle technique, military technology must be the last word, well-quality and very well-controlled, because the life of people is behind every glitch. Basically, if there's a glitch, the one with the glitch will die. Who is responsible for ensuring that procurement has been carried out at such a high level that failures are practically minimised?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U15	This is the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence and the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces. Unfortunately, we can say that the Ministry of Defence today, also in the name of the Minister, obviously does not have a clear view of public procurement. This is particularly the case for exceptional procurement, which currently amounts to around EUR 52 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U16	Martin Kukk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U17	Thank you, good manager. Dear Auditor General, You mentioned that you need more competent people to carry out performance audits in the fields of defence and internal security. I therefore ask whether it is not possible to do so using the internal resources of the National Audit Office in a situation where personnel costs are being reduced in all other state institutions. I am not saying that anyone who deals with the cultural field should go to the defence field to audit, but can this be done using internal resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U18	Since we have been in front of both the government and the Riigikogu for the third year on this subject, we have clearly been looking for internal reserves. I mentioned to you before, about the companies in the country. Originally, we applied for money for this job and found the resources inside the house to put this team together. But in addition to companies, we need to think about large infrastructure. Let us take the example of Rail Baltic, which is now on our table as one audited item, not only in the Estonian context, but in the context of the Baltic States and Poland. We also need to build this capacity. That is how an application has to be made for an amount of EUR 250000, because we actually have nowhere else to take that money. If the authorities have to reduce staff, then the constitutional institution, as the National Audit Office does, does not have this possibility on the one hand, and on the other, I do not know that the Estonian state would have given up dealing with some of the fields that we control. In other words, neither the number of officials nor the demographic situation affects how the National Audit Office is audited and whether it is audited at all. The state is a whole and even if there is an official left in some area, the more the National Audit Office should check whether everything that is planned has been done rationally, efficiently and using money correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U19	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U20	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good performer! I understand you've been running into a wall for the third year. Is there any hope that tomorrow's new budget presented by the Prime Minister will have mercy on the National Audit Office and that the amount of these lousy EUR 250,000 will still be found as compared to 750 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U21	Good questioner! I'm not asking for mercy. If you continue to answer in this key, in fact, the life of the National Audit Office would be much easier if there were little money. It would give us a justification not to do one thing or another, and if we do badly, there is also a justification that we do not have sufficient resources. I talked to the Prime Minister just before the remote came here, and he said the same thing that he said in previous years: that we are in solidarity, that money has been taken away from everyone in the same way, that there is no way to increase the staff. That's the situation I'm in here with you today. But yes, knowing how much money now goes to defence spending and internal security, and knowing that these sums are going to increase, I am somewhat embarrassed by the small amount that EUR 250000 is on this background, to stand before you for the third year. But I'm still a spirited scientist and a natural scientist still does three experiments before he draws conclusions. So this is the third attempt, and even if the third attempt fails to obtain a resource, the Auditor General will draw his own conclusions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U22	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U23	Thank you, manager. Dear Auditor General, I was also a member of a special committee in the previous period and maybe I know better than my colleagues what conditions the National Audit Office is working in. This is one small part of the work of the National Audit Office, which today's inquiry concerns, but I think that if state funding is not guaranteed, we cannot talk about internal security or reducing corruption or anything else. You're doing all this prevention, aren't you? I think that the people of Estonia are very interested in the progress of Estonian Energy projects in Utah State and Jordan in America, because there is also our taxpayers' money. When are you gonna get to this issue and how much money would it take?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U24	The National Audit Office is currently auditing foreign investments of Eesti Energia. This is in our audit plan, this work is on, so both Utah and Jordan are likely to be checked out. This work is done using our internal reserves. That's what I was talking about earlier. But I want to stress one more thing. It is not only when we see shortcomings that make us feel secure. The feeling of security for the Riigikogu and society also comes when we can say that there are no shortcomings. But to say this, you need undisputed competence. We need it to be able to come here with a hall confirmation that we're okay in defense.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U25	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U26	Thank you. Dear Auditor General, You said that as long as the state budget does not have the necessary funds that you could use to set up a team qualified to audit national defence, it is as if you have an excuse not to carry out this task. For the sake of historical truth, I think it is necessary to mention that last year, the Central Party Group has proposed to change the state budget to give you these resources so that you can carry out this task. But please tell me who will then, until then, monitor the state's defence expenditures in line with the objectives set. Who will carry out this task as long as you have no competence?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U27	I dare now tell a member of the Riigikogu that you are wrong. You're wrong that we can't take the responsibility we've been given by law. We must cover this area throughout the country, and that is what we are doing. However, we cannot go into this with the necessary volume and depth so that the members of the Riigikogu can be sure that this money has been spent correctly and rationally. In 2012, we also carried out an audit on this subject, where a number of shortcomings emerged. The question now is that we can carry out these individual audits, but in order to get a complete picture, we need a team that is constantly monitoring, not an ad hoc team that is analyzing one particular thing that may not be the most important thing in the field of defence at all. So we can't miss it. But it may happen that we are manning these groups, perhaps not with the most competent people, and perhaps this is also a result that you would not want to see, because audits in this area should be reliable.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U28	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U29	Thank you. Mr. Auditor General! During the Department of Defence audit, did you see what was going on in the Defence League in this area that we are discussing in this Chamber today?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U30	The Defence League is a separate subject and the National Audit Office should deal with it has drawn attention to several members of the Riigikogu as well as to the Retired generals. So the answer is yes, it should be dealt with. We haven't analyzed it so far. I guess it's stuck on the same question as whether we have enough resources or, rather, whether there are enough people to deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U31	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U32	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Auditor General! I come back to the mid-term comments and I ask in their light. Aren't you afraid today's statement in the spirit that if there is no resource, if there is not enough competence, there will not be proper summaries, will lead to the rejection of uncomfortable reports? Perhaps it will even lead to the temptation to reduce the amount of money in your competence even further when you prepare the budget for next year. Then there will be no uncomfortable reports, which will have to be rejected or ignored afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U33	I don't know what an uncomfortable report is. I think that the report can only be of high quality or non-quality. And within these limits, we need to produce reports in a clear way. We just have to make choices. And as I said before, we are also doing brief reviews where we can point out that there are certain shortcomings. That's what we've done before. I can also give some examples. We know that 3.2 million is a prepayment to set up Admiral Pitka. However, after this decision was made a year later, Admiral Pitka was cancelled. And now this 3.2 million sits somewhere and waits for the time to come for other ships that can be set up. I don't think that's the best way to use money. Or the purchase of software in the order of EUR 170000 was applied for, but later it became apparent that this software was not needed and it was decontaminated a few years later. I can give you further examples, but they would not give a complete picture of the situation of our defence forces and our internal security.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U34	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General, I understand you will not be given more money next year to improve control. Is there any fear that this amount will be reduced in the budgetary procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U36	As far as I have looked at the draft state budget, the budget of the National Audit Office has not been reduced. On the contrary, some thousands have been added to it, which concerns the development of the IT field. About what happens here in the Riigikogu Chamber, I don't know what to say, it's up to you. If it is found that our sum needs to be reduced, I think the Riigikogu is the place where such decisions can be made. This should not be the result of a ministerial official's own table.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U37	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General! In addition to the aforementioned national defence and Rail Baltic, what would be the areas that would require the attention of the National Audit Office and which the National Audit Office would need additional experts, competence and money to supervise?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U39	In most areas, the National Audit Office is covered with experts. We certainly do not want a situation in which the National Audit Office deals with what it has abilities for. The National Audit Office must deal with what is necessary for the Estonian state. As a result, all our human resources policy has been structured on the principle that we look at what are currently risky places in Estonia, where the National Audit Office should say its word along with it. We have also developed focus areas in our strategy for the coming years, and one of them is internal security and national defence. But this does not mean that other areas should remain unobserved. We simply reorganize our work in such a way that the country is covered, but for the coming years we will be aware of certain risks on which we will focus in depth in our audits.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U40	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U41	I understand that if there is a desire to solve problems concerning the Ministry of Defence and auditing in this area, much depends on the competence of your staff. In other words, you need two or three officers with the necessary knowledge and experience. We have been talking about this for a long time in our group and at government level, that there is no way that this money will work out. Isn't there a way to review your internal structure and find a couple or three places to hire officers on the civilian side? With the officers, we can help you. Is that conceivable or isn't it at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U42	Good questioner! That's what I said once. We have made the corresponding restructuring and we have found some of the money we applied for in previous years through internal resources. It is understandable that the National Audit Office cannot establish non-profit organizations in order to buy in an audit of national defence, for example, which would probably solve this problem so that we cannot take more officials. The National Audit Office has to manage with its own money and the main part of it, by the way, is the salary of the staff. And in the state budget, our budget is about EUR 5 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U43	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Auditor General, I, too, ask about the EUR 250000 that you are asking, as I understand it, for many years, and which would also allow you to control the security sector more effectively. Listening to the questions of the members of the Reform Party, it can be concluded that the first recommendation proposed by the government is to find these amounts at the expense of internal resources. The National Audit Office has replied that this is not possible. What's the next suggestion? What does the Government of the Republic or, for example, the representative of the Ministry of Finance tell you why this EUR 250000 cannot be found? There's gotta be an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U45	Our arguments have been similar every year, and I brought them out to you today. Understandably, each year the coalition agreement is different and the National Audit Office does not participate in this process. That is why the National Audit Office has rarely received support from the Coalition Agreement. I want to emphasise one thing. I am not here today to blackmail 250,000 euros for the National Audit Office. Absolutely not. Of course we'll find a solution. But I want you to be sure that we really do our job as competently and as best we can. This fortress must be not only for me, but for you and for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U46	Thank you, Auditor General. There are no more questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiations, so I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U47	The following inquiry has been made by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Dmitri Dmitrijev, Enn Eesmaa, Rein Ratas, Olga Ivanova, Martin Repinski, Aadu Must, Mailis Reps, Kersti Sarapuu, Priit Toobal, Viktor Vassilyev, Valeri Korb, Tarmo Tamm, Lauri Laas and Märt Sults, who will also speak on behalf of the heirs. An inquiry is about the restoration of the teacher's grades. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U48	Honourable President-in-Office! Colleagues! The inquiry has been submitted on 10 June this year and bears the number 52. Before I begin to report any question, I would remind the Minister that our sessions will be screened, filmed and archived, and that future generations will be able to examine all these materials. So when stupid answers come in here, then it's embarrassing and embarrassing when someone reads them in five or ten years' time and raises the subject. That's very bad. So let us act responsibly and please answer the questions asked specifically. We all know that bananas do not grow in Estonia, so there is no need to tell us. Now, however, an inquiry into the restoration of the teacher's ranks. Dear Minister for Education and Science, Jaak Aaviksoo, then Minister of Education and Science, who was followed by Minister Ossinovski in this capacity, lost his job and now you are holding this profession, an age-old teacher's level of professional skills: a youth professor, a teacher, a senior teacher, a teacher. All of them began to be named with a common name in their efforts to honor the teaching profession, and all teachers became teachers with one stamina. Basically, that's right, because in ancient Greece there was a teacher's slave who tolerated the child to school. It's all right. Now we have teachers and teachers, and that sounds nice. The amendment equated the salaries of teachers with different levels of qualification. In essence, the situation was created in which masters, or owners of know-how, were taken away from their deserved reward and handed over to apprentices, or youth teachers. I don't mind the junior educators, but there's still a difference between working as a youth professor or a teacher-methodist. There's a big difference. At the same time, of course, there are also young people who are not a few, but quite a few, good numbers, who are already top teachers of actual qualifications. They are drivers, locomotives, who carry children after them and can motivate them. Although there is no experience, the will is awfully great. It's gonna cost something, too. So I don't think you can build a rigid high wall like that. But as an official, you should ask me that question. Aaviksoo spoke out loud about how much he loved teachers, and therefore raised their wages to what kind of wages? just without supplementing the contents of the common boiler. A legitimate question arises as to whose eyes the profession was popularised. Who are now showing more respect for teachers, and do teachers feel so much better that they are called teachers rather than teachers? In my opinion, there is a million times I have said it and I will say it once more as an hour giver, and there is an hour substitute, there is a hour giver, there is just a ticker, and then there is the teacher at the top of everything, or the teacher at the top of this pyramid. And this is where our questions come from. The first question: 'When and in what way will teachers be allowed to pursue national careers? " The teacher does not have the opportunity to make a career, and it is not important to say that local governments always have the opportunity to pay him extra. It is always possible to pay more, but there must be support from the state, because we are subjects of the state, we love our country and we want a very good future for the country. The second question: 'When and how will the shortage of teachers' salaries for local authorities be eliminated? According to the law, the work of the contracting authority must pay an agreed amount for the work performed (in order to comply with the law, the increase in contact hours within a post is not considered to be due to the dismissal of other teachers). " I mean, the position of teacher cannot be defined so that 35 contact hours are paid accordingly. And later, commenting on the state budget, it is said that teachers' wages rose in such a way and so much. But nobody says it's 35 contact hours, 32 contact hours or 24 contact hours. Question 3: When and in what way will regulation be restored that the position of head of class is regarded as an additional task rather than part of the teaching profession? For example, we only recently went to Roosna-Alliku Basic School and there is a class manager fee of EUR 30 and there are still coefficients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U49	The Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligil must answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U50	Honourable Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. In response to the author's introduction, there is so much verbatiming and recording not only the answers but also the questions and speeches that follow the answers. If they're crazy, broken and in bad style, it'll go down in history. For example, my Estonian teacher would certainly not have accepted such dispersal comments or phrases as 'in the rush of organizing the school network', if the topic did not relate to the school network at all and it was not a pile of things, or that 'Aaviksoo preached loudly'. If it has not been possible to hear that voice anywhere, it is not appropriate. Such butaphores always ask the teacher to pull off and draw down. If a question is asked, you must always stay within the scope of the subject. Then let's start over. Question 1: 'When, and in what way, will teachers be allowed to pursue national careers? " There is also a problem in this regard. If you mark the teaching profession as a low-level occupation, the teachers may be offended. And if you're talking about careers, but you turn to pay immediately, is that the same thing? Does your career measure your salary? I don't think so. I've been looking at that question for a while, and I thought maybe there was some kind of secret, but there wasn't. As far as grades are concerned, I don't think they should be restored. Pagunas provided by civil authorities on the basis of generally formal characteristics, and I do not think that it is actually reasonable to grant them in military offices. Always look at the actual work and abilities of a particular teacher. However, today's trend is rather to reduce this rigidity in the labour market. I think the decision that was made here a few years ago makes sense. This is also reasonable because we are trying to give schools more independence, not only to managers in general, as is the norm in society today, but also to schools. This is one of the directions for restructuring education. In any case, such rigid trunks would not support restructuring; they would not measure the quality of the teacher's work in substance. In particular, however, what bothers me is that if we try to bring more young teachers to school, it would be difficult for young people to get a better salary at school with such a 'ranking' system. So it can't be equal to a career. But in general, teachers have the opportunity to benefit from a 20% supplement to the payroll, which is added to the minimum rate, according to the goodness of their work. And that does not mean that a specific salary supplement must be up to 20%. This money can really be shared by the headmaster, above all, among the best. That's the choice of the headmaster. But teachers can also be a reviewer of teaching materials, for example, participate in working groups that prepare the curriculum and syllabus, transport a student association, be a member of the evaluation committee, etc. It's not like all teachers do exactly the same work. And schools can propose a separate system of motivation that teachers can understand. I admit it is difficult to differentiate wages in a small collective, but this option exists. At national level, this differentiation is quite impossible to do in a reasonable way. At the same time, teachers have established an organisation such as the Estonian Teachers' Association, which provides professional certificates. Or rather, it does not share, it allows them to be applied for. There are levels. And our ministry's recommendation is to take them into account, in which case, achieving a higher level is a motivation for the teacher. But that's not our precept to school. Secondly, 'When and how will the shortage of teachers' salaries for local authorities be eliminated? " The Ministry of Education is still unaware of such a shortage. It has been searched for for years, and all ministers have received this question again and again in the same terms. We know very precisely the number of teachers' positions and, accordingly, we allocate teachers' salaries as part of education grants. If you hear that in some municipalities it doesn't reach the teachers, let me know. The address of the capital has heard such accusations, but I don't know how it is when the money has been transferred. The rulers make these decisions, control the movement of this money better than the Ministry. There's more questions, but it's such a long story. I hope that this is still the first sentence. I'm still looking here for a text that is treated as a question. 'When and in what way will the position of head of class be restored as an annex to the duties? ' I don't think it needs to be restored. This should be in place as an amendment for some time to be assessed. This change has been made consciously. You were talking about 35 contact hours, but the full hours are not 35 contact hours, you should know that. You referred to a verbatim report and that it will be read in ten years' time. These 35 hours should include the introduction of the class and the number of other hours should decrease. This is part of the job and how the school manager of his payroll fund, which is known to be a minimum wage plus 20%, differentiates, it is not a minister to dictate. In any case, flexibility is now consciously included in the system. I do not rule out that in some schools the role of class manager is of particular importance and that there may be a higher premium for it than in other schools. No more questions like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U51	Questions for the Minister. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U52	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! The career ladder was appointed by an accreditation committee. After a certain period of time, the young teachers who came to school were able to take the test and get to the next stage. It was very important to the person whether he was a youth teacher, a teacher, a senior teacher or a teacher-methodist. The last appointment of the accreditation committee was in the Ministry and it was the highest level ♪ this person was able to train others and make study materials. It meant a special category. When somebody in some company said he was a teacher-method, the reaction was that wow, that's what! Maybe you didn't know that. Money isn't the only motivation. And what levels of freedom do you offer schools if they are not given budget money? You're talking about how schools can decide for themselves from morning to night. Can the school decide for itself whether to fire four teachers or five teachers and at the same time raise the class manager's fee from 60 euros to 70? My question time is almost over.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U53	Was there a question? I'll try to find him in that comment. It is possible that this question mark was after the third word of the fifth line. I was talking about the committees and the stages myself. And I repeat, this system was considered very formal. Being a teacher's family, mother and sister teachers, I knew at a very young age that such a system existed. I also know that basically teachers tended to be given these titles by age, not by their work. At the same time, it would be strange for a junior teacher to become a 60-year-old teacher or a 25-year-old teacher to be a senior teacher. In any case, these steps are very formal, tend to develop by age rather than by quality of work. That is what my politicians have told me, and I believe in the change that was made a few years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U54	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U55	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The question consists of two sides. Does the Ministry have any feedback on how schools have actually behaved with former teachers and teachers? Are there many cases where pay for the same amount of work has decreased? Have these teachers addressed their professional association or directly to the Ministry with complaints? Do you think that's a problem? Secondly, if I remember correctly, the teachers' professional union was against losing their grades. What is the position of professional associations of educators today?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U56	Thank you. Do you mean, when you start at the end of the question, the unions? I couldn't follow this debate exactly right now, but the Centre Party asked for it, too, and I'm assuming that's where they get their thoughts. I have a very nice relationship with the teachers' union myself, and no problem. In general, it is notable where this criticism may come from. There is another organisation whose membership is considerably smaller and which deals directly with the qualifications of teachers and tries to remedy the shortcomings of the previous system in any way. We also have good communication and cooperation with them. However, as far as this knowledge or statistics are concerned, I do not have it personally. But I will certainly ask my officials, who always know how to answer my questions. Whether this information exists in the form of real statistics is not certain, but it can be assumed that the approach is humane and that no one is trying to reduce their salary. At the same time, those for whom the quality of work assessment leads to a higher wage increase than the formal criteria would have been. On the contrary, if it seems that the step does not correspond to the teacher's contribution, it may be difficult for the teacher to negotiate a wage increase. Of course, the question at school is always the burden of what kind of teacher gets the full load and who is not given the full load. It's based on an assessment, too, but it's a headmaster's assessment. But, yes, I doubt that it is possible to take these data as large general statistics, rather they can be impressions and assessments that I can ask about.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U57	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U58	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I have some details. What you're saying about formality, I don't think it's quite true. The teacher had to meet certain requirements when he got from one category to another. A year later, the youth teacher became a teacher quite easily, but the next rise was quite difficult. There were still certain conditions to be met, and no one was just put into the next step. But the question: do you not think that you took away a very important motivation from the teachers with this change? They don't have enough motivations at school right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U59	We didn't, and I guess you didn't either. But as far as these criteria are concerned, I did not say that they were not there. I said they tended to be formal. This is an expert opinion that I have read and which was also the reason why this procedure was changed. I wasn't a changer, I wasn't a decision maker, but I trust those who made that decision. This seems to be a modern approach, especially in the civil administration. But also in the case of military offices, there could be more of an approach that a bare trunk does not necessarily mean a certain salary, but a probability of receiving one or the other salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U60	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You had a little chance to philosophize the careers and salary of teachers and their non-existent correlation. I'm asking you about the salary. Which minimum wage for teachers has been taken into account when allocating education grants for the 2016 state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U62	Oh, no, I didn't try to philosophize here. I tried to decipher the logic of the questioner when he was talking about careers, but he's about to turn to the money numbers. I tried to separate them. The minimum wage that has been included in the budget for next year, I can't tell you. However, I must admit that I am disappointed in the budget. I am disappointed that the people who raised expectations in the field of education did not come to support when it was necessary to support them. I did my best, and I intend to go on like this, but the first decisions weren't what I expected.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U63	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U64	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good performer! I'll take the word for it: Motivators, motivations. I understand you don't need different grades of teachers. But, as a motivator or as a carrot in a situation where there is no money, shouldn't the favourite teacher of his day, a public teacher, and why not the titles of the artists of the people? If there's no money, at least that's the motivation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U65	I don't think these titles may be either, let's say, perfect motivators, but they have one chance. It's a year teacher's title. I should think about what kind of recognition we still have. In my calendar, there is participation in the teachers' gala this week, where there is also a lot of recognition. It is also possible to pay tribute to the representatives of any of the agencies other than by providing refugees or higher wages. There's always some sort of limit to pay, and gratitude and respect shouldn't be at a very specific limit. Let's try our best in this area, but I'm not really familiar with what kind of recognition methods we use. I'm sure the Master of the Year title is. I have just signed a large number of thank-you letters on the basis of very different criteria, but, of course, they are not a substitute for the more practical recognition that has been mentioned here. But maybe there's a good thing about them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U66	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U67	Minister, thank you very much. A month or more ago, we saw a coalition agreement opened under the leadership of Evgeny Ossinovsky. One of the things you agreed was that the teacher as such, without any grade, should receive 120% of the average salary in Estonia by 2018. In a previous reply, you mentioned that the state budget for the coming year was approved in the government office just today. Do the amounts foreseen there for raising teachers' salaries give rise to the expectation that the wage increase will be so rapid that it will have reached 120% of the average wage by 2018?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U68	What I was looking at was a teacher's pay schedule until 2019. I don't know much about opening the coalition agreement, but the three party presidents did do something like that, and the media did too. Indeed, one of the highest targets is 120% there, and that is exactly how I have presented it. I've taken this to heart, I've fought battles on this subject, one battle this morning. The one I sent on the subject had exactly the same content. Hope will die last, of course, but right now we're behind that number. I've also criticised government decisions in the government. I will try not to do it outside, but to promise outside that I will do my best to ensure that the small amount that was allocated as extra money is at least able to approach this percentage. I'm sure I can do that to some extent. But first, of course, I must make an effort to compensate for the cuts that were made within the education budget according to the methodology that I see for the first time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U69	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U70	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I understand that your predecessors have put you in a very difficult and difficult position. It is no longer possible to save much within the education system; the predecessors have already made cuts. Let us be honest about this, changing the regulation of grades and losing the pay for class managers actually served the same purpose in order to get the average teacher's salary higher somehow. I specifically ask you because you are a particular minister: what will be the percentage of teachers' salary increases next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U71	That question already sounded, and I said I didn't know it. Firstly, because I am applying for support for two legislative amendments that are essential to increase the proportion of teachers' salaries in the budget. Secondly, as a minister, I still have to make difficult decisions on how to shift money within the budget. During the negotiations with the Ministry of Finance, I was shocked by a goal that has been shouted out together, and did not find much understanding. And I repeat: this attitude is different from the attitude I had as Minister of Finance. But this growth number is definitely going to be above the Estonian average, which I can guarantee. And it's going to be bigger than the average for the public sector. It's not so bad that teachers' salaries don't go high priority. In this regard, however, we have had cooperation in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U72	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U73	Thank you. Good minister! How calmly do you think the ministry you run is looking at where our best schools are trying to do better than others by means of donations?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U74	This question goes very far from questioning the question. I have a request that we deal with other issues separately. I don't think it's going to go with the Rules of Procedure if I'm talking here about everything that interests us.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U75	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U76	Thank you. Respectable Minister of Education and Science! Sometimes you meet teachers and see that so few men are in this large group who work in upper secondary school or comprehensive school. I wonder if the Ministry has done any research into how much it should cost teachers to pay their men to go to school. Is it done?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U77	While respecting the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, I can respond in this way. I do not believe that the introduction of teachers' grades would help in any way increase the proportion of men in the teaching staff.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U78	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U79	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! It's perfectly understandable that you haven't had time to deal in depth with grades and degrees of accreditation. But perhaps you have had the opportunity to discuss this briefly with representatives of the trade union and teachers' organisations. When the stages of accreditation were abolished, the previous Minister for Education and Science explained quite convincingly in a discussion that professional standards would replace them in several new stages and that they would eventually be reflected in wages. When will qualifications and qualifications be reflected in salaries?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U80	Thank you. I've always had such motherly introductions to your questions, but I can't comment on my predecessors' ever-spoken phrases right now. I don't know what anyone's said exactly, so I don't know what to do with it. At the same time, I think that, as far as is necessary, I am familiar with the subject of today's item on the agenda, and that is more of a matter of the past than of the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U81	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U82	Thank you. When you answered Mr Põldaru, you said that you did not lose the ranks of teachers. It's a very schoolboy's behavior: schoolboy's been in trouble, but he says at first kick he hasn't done it. Let me get this straight. At the time, you were the Minister of Finance, and your ministry, too, coordinated a government bill that lost ranks? Or maybe you were against it. I remember you were in favour. Do I remember wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U83	Thank you. I don't think you've ever had that knowledge that you should remember. But my answer was that the questioner approached me relatively personally. However, as you know, there is a division of labour in the government and drafts are brought to the government by the Minister of Speciality, and any direct opposition will be presented by each minister, in particular in accordance with his terms of reference. It's natural. I did not have a direct professional role in this area at the time. I do not agree with Mr Tamm's statement that this step was taken in any way to influence some kind of statistics. I can't imagine how losing the stats could affect the statistics in any way. But based on my instincts, I was in favour of this change. I think these decisions reflect a modern understanding of labour market flexibility and the independence of schools. I basically think that this was a step in the right direction and, as Minister of Finance, I did not have any arguments against it either.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U84	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Sults will take the floor first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U85	Colleagues! I regret that, in his replies, the Minister arbitrarily addressed my words that the teacher's activities are directly linked to money and convertible into money. Teachers' responsibility and work cannot be measured at all in money. The greatest reward for us teachers is when a child smiles, his eyes shine, and he is happy. And if he gets out of class with an aha-effect that he's got some new knowledge, that's the most reward. Most teachers are like that. Yes, most of them are! Now I remind you, just in case, in 1984, I wanted to go to school. I was assigned to the 43rd High School of Vocational Education. But since I had a so-called free diploma, I had a lot of good grades on my diploma, I wanted to apply for a chemistry teacher at the 7th high school, the present English College of Tallinn. I couldn't apply because I didn't have a senior position. They said you'd be back in three years after you got a senior teacher's degree. So to claim that the higher stage was not a motivator, is absolutely dilettante. And now for the money. Here are the final statements. By 2016, the Minister of Education and Research, during the negotiations with the municipal associations, initially put EUR 225.7 million on the table, or 0.6 million less than this year. The Ministry of Finance turned it into 231.741 million at the last minute, or increased the amount allocated to education by 2.4%. So it's 2.4% bigger than this year. Now we're gonna talk about who's beading around. Some comrade told us from this remote that the teachers' payroll is up 4%. 2.4% or 4%, what's the difference?! Number 4 is in both ways. It's okay. And now I quote: 'Education allowance includes resources for the labour costs and further training of municipal school teachers, directors and school leaders, the acquisition of teaching literature and school lunches. The amount of the grant has been calculated by increasing the amounts necessary for the establishment of state secondary schools into the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research. ' Now, please, be hiromands, dear, dear colleagues. How much will the teachers' wage fund increase? The thing is, with this 2.4% increase, you have to do a number of problems, which are a four-and-a-half line. And it also says what I especially like as a former longtime director of municipal school: namely, the sum of state secondary schools will be deducted from it. So basically hello, space! The extinction of municipal upper secondary schools is taking full time and basic schools will have as much as they remain. And now the directors are the hiromen who need to be free to decide. When a fish is placed in a bucket full of water, the freedom of the fish is as great as a bucket. When a fish is put in a pond, it has a much greater freedom and a much greater chance of survival. So, strength to work, Ministry of Education and Science! Good luck, Mr. Ligi! And I'm still operational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U86	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U87	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, As a former school papa and a pretty long-time classroom manager, I think I have a duty to speak on this subject. Increasing the role of a class manager and paying a reward for this work is absolutely not a matter of the past. This is very much the subject of the future. The current situation with regard to the remuneration of the head of class is, in my view, very substantively inconsistent with the objectives of the national curriculum. There is increasing emphasis on education every year, that children and young people need to shape the values that we consider right as a society. In some Estonian private schools, where the funding of the school allows it with the approval of the parents, a system has been implemented that one class has several class managers. In my opinion, this is an example for the Estonian educational landscape. Unfortunately, this is not conceivable at this point in regular schools. In my opinion, the Ministry would be wise to set the minimum fee for the head of class as soon as possible by at least 10% of the teacher's minimum wage. Enough money should be allocated to schools or municipalities to enable them to pay the class managers such a fee. Yes, perhaps the current minister is not directly responsible for this decision a few years ago, but he has an excellent opportunity to correct this mistake quickly. I dare be a bit pathetic and say that the consequences of this mistake go far beyond the walls of the school. So the sooner this mistake is corrected, the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U88	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! There were three questions in this question, but since the previous speaker, indeed the school dad, has so well summed up the issue of class management fees, I would rather continue on the subject of grades. First of all, a little field trip back to the Minister's answers. Minister Ligi tried to convince us in quite a number of answers that he had not lost his grades. Of course, any repackaged minister can say that he is not responsible for one or the other earlier decision. At the same time, we hear over and over again that the biggest plus of the Reform Party is that it has been consistently in power. Thus, the ministers of this party have no reason to claim that they are not responsible for the decisions of previous governments. At the same time, I agree that if Jürgen Ligi Aaviksoo's decisions are not correct in the vote in this Chamber, it is possible to change them quite quickly. Why has the formality been mentioned in the case of the abolition of grades? It is true that when it comes to the discussions between the teachers' trade unions and the teachers' representative associations, it seems that four steps are too few. The right number of years ago was found that there should be eight steps, there was talk of ten. A number of working groups proposed that there should be a dozen posts. The idea was that grades should not jump by a thousand kroons, but at slightly smaller intervals, and be more involved in the in-school contribution, in-school work and less in national papering. That was the criticism, but I believe that not one of the teachers' representative organisations talked about losing grades, but about changing them, supplementing them. And for two reasons. First of all, the motivation that has already been mentioned here. The teachers are certainly, I am absolutely convinced of it, at least as well trained continuously as the doctors. Teachers have trained themselves from a great desire to develop, but surely one of the motives has also been that it has been demanded of them. In order to rise to the next level and, of course, to be rewarded with a small extra fee in their monthly salary, the teachers have been happy to learn. To sum up this whole debate on the abolition of grades, it was argued that teachers are already sufficiently motivated, while they will continue to learn. I'm sure they will, but if the state doesn't say thank you for that with a salary corresponding to the level of accreditation, then it's pretty unfounded to expect systematic teacher training to continue. The second and perhaps more painful issue is the problem that we do not have a system of tarification to ensure an increase in wages due to age and experience. There are no stages, as we have already mentioned. Such a system, where all teachers are at one level, is quite unique in Europe. In most countries that set an example for us, the stages are used in one way or another. This is where I propose that the Riigikogu consider whether, for example, the next school year should be re-established. In cooperation with expert committees, consideration could be given to whether to return to a four-tier or, for example, to a ten-tier, which would take a large part in-school work into account, but also, of course, to what has been done at national level. I hope that, according to these grades, greater amounts of money can also be foreseen in the education allocation. After all, this so-called extra money of 20%, which each local authority currently receives, must cover expenses from class and school management fees to the cost of support structures, and this is clearly too little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U90	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak. Minister Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U91	First of all, I'd like to thank Teacher Amma for bringing a teacher's view here. I don't know how fresh a view it is, but it's definitely a teacher's view. However, I would like to point out one inaccuracies. Here the impression was created that I consider the remuneration of the head of class to be something of the past and that I would depreciate the work. That ugly word wasn't used, but that's how I sensed it and not the only one listening. I didn't say anything like that. I said it was the subject of the school's independent decision, not the subject of the Minister of Education. And this is the subject of the future, in the sense that the labour market is flexible and that the independence of schools is as great as possible. The speech by Mailis Reps, of course, was quite deliberately inaccurate. I have in no way made such statements as he said in his speech. However, the main objection I have is that less bureaucracy and more school independence should be included in the future. The second claim made by Malis was on liability. I have never said that I am in no way responsible for the decisions of the previous government. I never said I was against Aaviksoo's preferences either. This was deliberately an imprecise claim. I say that, instinctively, I have accepted Jaak's decisions, for the reasons already mentioned. However, they are not formally drafts submitted by the Minister of Finance. In general, the Minister of Finance should refrain from getting too involved in the administration of others. If there is no financial aspect to the intervention, then there is always a great deal to consider whether it is worth putting yourself in the position of Minister of Speciality. I was generally in the habit of arguing with all the ministers if necessary, but I did not see any need to argue in this area. I'm saying that right now I'm behind this decision, but when time proves it was a bad decision, and experts also instill it on me, I'm willing to review it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U92	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U93	The next item is the inquiry into the qualifications of adult trainers submitted by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Siret Kotka, Märt Sults, Valeri Korbi, Lauri Laas, Mailis Repsi, Mikhail Korbi, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta, Jaanus Karilaidi, Martin Repinski, Olga Ivanova, Tarmo Tamme, Rein Ratas, Enn Eesmaa, Kersti Sarapuu and Erki Savisaare. Erki Savisaar on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! This summer the new Adult Education Act came into force. This development was due to the need to improve and complement the legal base for adult training, to clarify the right to carry out further training, to organise the activities and other requirements of adult training institutions. The expectations of this law were very high in the sector. It was hoped that the new law would solve many of the shortcomings of the old law. Now, reading the Adult Education Act, however, there is a feeling that the objectives set have not been achieved and that the situation in the continuing education market is getting more confusing. This law made it considerably easier to register new training centres, made the training schemes irrelevant, and made it an obligation for the managers of the refresher training institution to prove the qualifications of trainers. For example, when registering a training centre, it is only enough that the company that wants to deal with it has a website. The law does not show how these institutions have to demonstrate the qualifications and skills of trainers and who is more competent. Supplementary training is often very specific. I may find it easiest to give examples of the computer world, but we can also find similar examples of engine construction or welding or the dairy industry. The Act states that a training institution must demonstrate the competence of trainers, but it does not have to prove that it has the technical means and licences necessary to carry out the training. Some examples of the computer field that I have encountered and where some solutions were also expected from the new Adult Education Act. For example, in the case of one procurement, proof of two computer trainers was provided to the unemployment fund. One of them had a certificate of qualification for the andragogic and the other had a certificate of completion of the pedagogical course. One had received an invitation, the other went to school. The trainer who completed the pedagogical course was considered to be more competent, justifying that the certificate of qualification of the andragog did not include a specialty. Also, there was no sign of computer training in the teaching course certificate. However, the andragog is an adult educator, who was specifically wanted. The teacher is a teacher of children and the pedagogical course learns how to behave with children and does not talk about the specifics of adult education at all. There are also examples that pirate software is used in public procurement training. This should be totally unacceptable, but current practice has favoured it. The use of pirate software results in a first violation of the software manufacturer's copyright, including copy rights, and second, an honest company that has invested in legal software is placed in unequal competition with a company that has failed to make these investments and uses stolen software. As a result, I, along with my 16 colleagues, submitted four questions to the Minister for Education in the hope that we will have some clarity on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U95	Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Education and Science, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I really couldn't track the description of all the suffering that this regulation has caused in real life. It was all new information to me, I didn't know where to put it. I'd always like the inquisitor to explain exactly what the answer is, then the answers will be better. But I will now try to answer those questions that you have all been asked. The first question: 'What is the basis for assessing the qualifications of trainers, or how, must this qualification be proved? ' In general, training is one. But besides what the state offers, there are also goods offered by the private sector, where the need and ability to regulate the state is not endless. That is why the Adult Education Act has chosen the approach of not trying to impose all kinds of qualification requirements for trainers. The areas are very different and these requirements can also be extremely different. The need for regulation in one specific area may be radically different from the need for regulation in another. At the same time, the logic of this law is that, when training is offered on the market, the primary requirement, apart from what is stated in the laws of the profession and in the law itself, is public disclosure. The consumer needs to know and it needs to be able to see exactly what is being offered. This needs to be seen by both the learner and the sponsor of this learning, and this information must be used to assess how competent and authoritative the trainer is. And the state can intervene immediately if the data is not correctly provided or are missing a lot. This could also result in additional regulation, which cannot be excluded in some areas. The second question: "Is it more important to prove a qualification that a trainer has completed a course or that he or she holds a corresponding certificate or certificate? ' I read that question several times, but I didn't quite understand. In itself, it is important to note the professional skills of the trainer and the ability to train adults, as well as work experience, when demonstrating their qualifications. According to this, the learner or funder can also make their own assessments. At the same time, documents that may be a certificate of competency, a diploma, a certificate of course or any other document may be helpful. There is no one approach here that can be achieved in all areas by means of regulation with the same intensity. There is no way to say that experience or testimony is unambiguously comparable. In some cases, a certificate without experience is much worse than an experience without a certificate, but in some cases a certificate is essential. Third: "Does the qualification of computer trainers be assessed on the basis of professional certificates, previous trainings, feedback from schoolchildren or any other feature? ' I believe that all these things can be helpful in offering your goods. Authority and trainee confidence can be earned and good training can be provided in different ways. If you now refer to the training of the unemployment fund, it is still up to the donor or subscriber to decide who seems more reliable to him and what conditions he sets for the trainer. Fourth: 'By 31 March each year, the holder of an additional training institution shall make available, through the education information system, the performance indicators laid down in the Ministerial Regulation established pursuant to § 366 (32) of the Education Act of the Republic of Estonia for the previous calendar year. What data is requested in this report, and for what purpose are they collected? ' The main point of this data collection is that there are no institutions in the education information system that no longer operate on the market. If the school doesn't get the data, they'll be deleted from the register. The Action Indicators Regulation is currently under development and these data reflect, in particular, the volume of training activities, the number of students and the overview of the courses that have been conducted. And here again is the goal of public availability. The Regulation should enter into force on 1 January 2016 and the first data collection will take place in March 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U97	Questions about the Minister's reply. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, do you consider it sufficient to set up a training facility if the company only owns a website? If you are now saying that I have misinterpreted this law in some way and that the requirements are quite different, what requirements do you think an in-service training institution must meet?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U99	It is certainly not enough for an institution to put out a label that it is a continuing education institution. I don't think there's much going on in that facility, and I don't think it's viable. Both learners and donors choose carefully and inefficiency means that the institution disappears from the market. However, as has been said, it is not possible to have a single regulation covering all areas. After all, we all sense that bureaucracy must not grow. But when he grows, his demands tend to be bureaucratic rather than precise and substantive. The key players here are still learners and funders who, in most cases, make a reasonable choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U100	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U101	Thank you. Good minister! When we look at the amendment of the Adult Education Act, one argument why the Ministry introduced so many innovations was indeed the reason you have now pointed out. A grownup really needs to be smart enough to decide where he goes and where he doesn't go. Let's free up the market. The question, however, is that, if the contracting authority is a state, such as an unemployment fund or an education system, which requires further training for teachers, either through the local government or through the state structure, whether in such cases adult trainers should be subject to slightly higher requirements. Do you think that the rules of the free market must apply, too, or do you not find it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U102	Thank you. There is sometimes no free market in most areas when it comes to education. In the case of training, the responsibility of the unemployment fund as a contracting authority, as well as awareness, is certainly much higher. But they, too, have to cope with the companies that are on the market in their trainings, and more free regulation, rather, contributes to the emergence of good training companies. This area must not be harassed or over-regulated for nothing, it must be given the opportunity to create companies, it must give them the opportunity to get good, not to die with restrictions on their origin.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U103	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U104	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! It has been announced that when refugees come to Estonia, Innove, a member of the Ministry of Education and Research, will train trainers to train refugees, both adults and children. Where and what competences will these trainers train?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U105	I don't know where you found such a long chain, but in general Innove, of course, advises and trains teachers and educational institutions. That's his role. Its roles include providing support services for people with special needs and, in some ways, refugees are people with special needs. That's mostly not in the traditional sense. But our educators must have the ability to identify these special needs, whether economic, social, psychological, linguistic or educational, even in terms of literacy, and to act accordingly. In general, the modern approach to learning is increasingly student-centred, and we do not escape it in the case of foreigners. Rather, they must be approached very individually.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U106	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Adult education and further training for adults are a very complex and multi-layered system. If you, as a minister, are looking at the opportunities currently available, the market, as well as the state-on-demand continuing training, do you see the benefits here? What are the benefits and strengths now, and what do we lack when we analyse the whole complex system?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U108	I do not take the courage to make a general assessment of whether something is very good or very bad. I think there's a lot of salt blowers on the market. The state has sufficient untapped resources that could be used in adult education and, on the other hand, there are non-state companies complaining that they are not allowed to enter the training market. The estimates can be quite mixed. At the same time, all regulation must be relatively optimised and based on what is right. We have had some ideas when drawing up this budget, too, I do not know whether they will be swallowed up to the end, how to make better use of the state's resources. When the state reform is being discussed here, a few pieces could be handed over to the unemployment fund and our Innove could play a role instead of other ministries. However, these thoughts probably need longer digestion time before the government reacts to these decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U109	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. A grown man can really make reasonable choices when he buys further training. But when we talk about state-ordered in-service training, it is no secret that public procurement is won by the cheapest offer. If now, as a result of the new law, it is enough to participate in public procurement that the company has been able to create a website for itself, then it is not difficult to guess who could win this procurement. It is quite likely to be won by a new company that lacks experience, has miscalculated the price, and only after winning the procurement will it begin to think about how to carry out the training at the lowest possible cost. And training people is not his main goal. This problem has become acute precisely because in the continuing training market, private sector orders are relatively small and all major training centres rely quite heavily on public procurement. These concerns have arisen from this. In general, you could still think a little more about which conditions one training institution needs to meet. The existence of a website and writing it, that yes, we have ten trainers, is not enough. When you look at these websites, you often see a lot of names with which this so-called institution has no connection at all. Only later will they try to contact their advertised trainers and enter into any arrangements so that they will be willing to participate in the procurement. Let's think about it a little bit, and maybe this law will get better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U111	Is there something the Minister would like to say? No, I don't. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U112	Today's fourth point is the question of investment in education. It is presented by Mailis Reps, Toomas Vitsut, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Must, Erki Savisaar, Rein Ratas, Tarmo Tamm, Enn Eesmaa, Andrei Novikov, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Kersti Sarapuu and Märt Sults. On behalf of Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U113	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good minister! In preparation for this inquiry, our visit to Põltsamaa Vocational School was the background. The newly renovated study building shone in all its glory, except unfortunately we didn't meet the students there. Being aware of the restructuring at Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre, it is clear that such a large investment actually required at least ten years of continuous study and that Põltsamaa school would be closed much faster if European money had not been invested there and the resulting obligation to keep the study buildings in use. The background to all these discussions, if you look at it even more broadly, is the knowledge that, during the funding period 2014-2020, very large amounts of money are also allocated to education, and that is something that we are all very pleased about. However, if the various investments were to be analysed on a regional basis, the question might arise as to whether all the investments in education have also led to higher quality and whether these buildings are still in use as school buildings. That is why our questions are for the Minister of Education and Research. Let's start with the vocational education system. We are interested in whether the investment in vocational education is reflected in the increased interest of students. Has work on the content of the curriculum and investment in buildings, educational resources and, hopefully, teachers' salaries led to a exponential increase in interest at least in certain areas? If interest has increased, has it increased in proportion to the investments made and what would be the Minister's assessment of the funding period that has passed in this area? If we look to the future, is the Ministry of Education and Research convinced that investments in general education schools in the next funding period will lead to the expected leap in the quality of education in the region? This particularly applies to new state secondary schools. Has a thorough cost-benefit analysis been carried out and the investment in other educational establishments in this region been monitored, and is it reasonable to expect that there will be students in these houses after years? Maybe they're full of school houses. Bringing such a wider range of questions here is particularly important, as counties have entered into negotiations with the Ministry on the establishment of state secondary schools. However, this also applies to applications for the next funding period at all, as under the educational restructuring label, many municipalities have the potential to receive quite large grants to renovate the school. Consequently, we have a number of questions divided into three subgroups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U114	Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Education and Science, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! So let's take the first question. How have VET groups been completed in the academic year? Have there been a decrease in the number of groups across occupations over the last three years? Which areas have been closed and which regions have experienced the greatest decline? All in all, these statistics are multi-pronged, and perhaps I wouldn't try to read it for a long time. However, the demographic situation, i.e. the decrease in the number of children, has also led to a decrease in the number of students in vocational education and training institutions, by 4,000 in ten years. The number of vocational schools has decreased by 13, the area available to these institutions by 10000 square metres. That is the answer to these tendencies and concerns. And in the same direction changes are actually continuing, as sorry as we are. The aim is to further reduce the space available to public schools by 50,000 square metres. But this year, the number of students is not expected to fall significantly. There has been a constant need for restructuring in the school network. The problems are smaller in the larger centres, i.e. Tartu and Tallinn. It can be said, however, that the vocational education system is consolidating, as is the case in other fields of education and research. There are also areas where the number of students has increased. Next, the second question: has large investments attracted a higher percentage of students to vocational education and training? Has interest increased more and better learning outcomes been achieved in schools where more investment has been made? Has the investments paid off? Let's hope he's paid. The test method cannot be applied here. The percentage of participants in vocational training has remained relatively stable. Investments have been more for what has been said, in large centres and it is quite certain that if the investments had not been made, the reputation and popularity of vocational education and training institutions would have fallen faster. In this sense, they have certainly paid off. I quote my predecessor, Mailis Reps, who has said on 13 April 2006 and I share responsibility with him, as I was the Minister of Defence in this government: 'We have given a clear message in the first 365 days of government that the ten lean years of vocational education are over. " Well said! Next question: 'Do you intend to make the same mistake with general education schools? ' Well, we certainly don't want to make mistakes with general education schools, but I think the inquisitor hasn't officially admitted his actions as a big mistake yet, so I'm a little confused. We have basic decisions on state secondary schools, but mostly not yet specific. The state upper secondary schools should now be nine and the law states that they must be at least one in each county. The construction plans are rather optimistic, and I have sensed this pressure. My first decision in this area was not to resist one of the pressures and to allow Järvamaa to start a Türi Upper Secondary School on the territory of a vocational school to combine the possibilities of these two school boxes, as well as the possibilities of substantive cooperation. I believe that there must be more such considerations and I cannot give in to this pressure to start saving architectural monuments within the framework of the state gymnasium project, which do not meet our opportunities or needs in terms of size and cost. There's been some pressure. There has already been a curse on Excel's table, but unfortunately, things that are very important to these cursors are also included in Excel's table, which they want funding for. So you still have to calculate, and you still have to choose. We hope that in the future, the years will be neither lean nor fat, but fit. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U116	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Errors or not errors, the question was, after all, that we in Põltsamaa in our time were expecting some other results. As you know, in the strategy papers, we had significantly more hopeful prospects for students choosing vocational education. Luckily, however, we have at least managed to keep a percentage of what we have so far. However, I am asking about investments, leaving the issue of state secondary schools aside at the moment. In the current budget period 2014 to 20.20, for which you can be happily responsible, investment in the general education system will be considerable. Will these investments be under your control, calculated that there will be children in the region in ten years' time, or will you save architectural monuments?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U118	Thank you. To my sadness, I must also answer this question, that I will not simply allow architecture to be saved. We have limited opportunities and limited responsibility. The damage is from monuments that have ever reflected a much higher number of children, but the central authority still allocates educational investments to municipalities by calculating that the school network is optimal and that the houses are not empty. We have quite a lot of investment over this period, EUR 241 million, and every decision must be smart and smart. How smart and clever I am, I don't know, but I'm trying to be smarter and smarter if I'm just not trying.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U119	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U120	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Of course, we are very sorry that Paides did not get the job of developing the state gymnasium on Posti Street and the Vocational Education Centre is becoming a large cluster education centre. But my question concerns the Põltsamaa vocational school, which always had a very high fulfillment of 300 students. Do you have any information about how many of these students went to study in Paide or Säreverre or somewhere else and how many students did not choose a vocational course at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U121	On this topic of Põltsamaa, I have answered the entire question here. If you want to know about a particular school, be sure to ask earlier. These statistics should already exist and can be verified. However, the fulfillment of Põltsamaa was a clear downward trend, as you may remember from my previous answer. And that is the problem, these investments have not been the most sensible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U122	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U123	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. As far as I am concerned, you have signed a decision or a regulation that I do not know what it is called on to finance the construction of Põlva state gymnasium. I think it is a good example that all school buildings should be built in the same way, that the old building will first be demolished and a new zero-energy building will be replaced. Then the result will be perfect. But what about the abandoned and decomposed school buildings that Estonia is full of? For example, there are other former centers, such as the deep forest technic. There are probably dozens of school houses in Estonia that stand useless. What is the fate of these buildings and who should take care of them so that Estonia can get order in this area? What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U124	That's a hugely painful question. After all, many manors and churches are in the same position, but their architectural value is, of course, greater than that of most of the empty school houses. There aren't many pleasant answers here. Tallinn is one example where schools are completely empty and, according to the number of students, they could be left empty faster. More students could be concentrated. The fate of these schools has not been happy. Before they're demolished, they'll be looted. In any case, an empty school is quite a sad sight. But we're making investments to make schools fit. The basic school measure is EUR 109 million, which is intended not to extend the network, but to bring the network together, including for the proper functioning of houses. Something more beautiful and practical has been set as a target than just empty schoolhouses.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U125	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U126	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! As we know, there is a shortage of working hands in Estonia; in itself there are jobs. You have pointed out that the number of students in vocational education and training has decreased by about 400. What are the investments and activities envisaged by the state to bring more students into vocational education?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U127	I said 4,000 in 10 years, which means an average of 400 a year. So, yes, it's true. If there has been no major breakthrough in vocational education, it is certainly a question of a million dollars how to do it anyway. At the same time, there is no desire to depreciate more academic general education. But we have a desire for more young people to go to vocational schools. Very massive investment in vocational schools is one measure, but it has not been enough to increase the prestige of vocational schools in percentage terms. There are no simple solutions here. The efforts of schools are one aspect; the other is organisational measures. Obviously, consolidation will help to focus more resources on improving the content of education. My impression for now is that narrow disciplines should disappear. A person acquiring vocational education should not receive any certificate with a very specific title; it can raise questions and problems when applying for employment in other fields. Rather, vocational schools should become workers with more universal skills. I'm pretty sure of it. I also think that learning time in many disciplines seems to be overexploited in very simple occupations, people are kept in school for a long time. One of the fundamental objectives of this academic year is cooperation between general education and vocational schools. We try to "cross" resources, give pupils in general education schools the opportunity to acquire some skills as an additive. The most popular are certainly IT specialties, which vocational schools can offer better. On the other hand, vocational schools must ensure a better level of general education so that the understanding that the general education they receive is not sufficient for further education or less practical to continue in the jobs associated with the profession is not spread. I think this question is eternal. We also work very closely with employers. Unfortunately, it has to be said that in some cases failures have occurred. I believe that the pressure of employers once is one of the reasons why curricula have become so fragmented and specific that in real life they may not be helpful if you want to make more money and choose between jobs anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U128	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I'll come back to Põltsamaa. Is it still right to build a car repair workshop in the centre of Estonia for millions, which is not even in the centre of Tallinn, and to make other investments, and to say after a while that we will take all these young people to Järvamaa instead? Why have you even ignored the opinion of your party partner, then and now the governor of Jõgeva, Viktor Svyashev, who has said that these investments in office silence are completely absurd? Don't you need to consult with the mayor? Is that normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U130	Here I have to say that I have not had the slightest role in determining this investment. Be sure to ask Mailis Reps, sitting in front of you, if he does. As far as this study is concerned, there was a rapid drop in the number of students. This internship base remains in use, but the survival of the school as a viable educational institution was not predicted. So this consolidation is a natural process and some proof that one day it was overinvested here and there. Continuing school would have meant even more overinvestment if we wanted to build everything up there. As far as I can remember, the plan belonged to the dormitory. Viktor Svyašev, however, do not quote freely. I don't know what he said anywhere, but it's not that important. I've been talking to him about this, and he had no complaints, he understood us completely. Maybe some people say something emotionally sometimes, but let's not quote people who aren't here and for whom we can't know what context and what tone he said.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U131	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You said that there would be consolidation of the vocational education system. Could you open up a little bit about when it starts, whether this plan is specifically prepared and managed by the state in the form of the Ministry of Education and Research, or whether local governments are involved in it to some extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U133	In fact, it is more of a country's role. I think we have written in law a rather generous provision that every county must have vocational education. To this provision, I believe that quite large educational institutions have been built up where students are simply not enough. Each county has wanted to develop more than it would have developed in cooperation with others. And it is still a matter of state responsibility rather than of municipal responsibility. But, of course, cooperation with local governments is necessary. The process of consolidation has begun from itself; it is not a new thing. However, the decision on Põltsamaa Vocational School fell during my predecessor's time. For me, however, it has become clear that these decisions have rather been too slow. And I'm not ashamed to say it either. Where exactly what's going on here is already in the game with plenty of details that should be checked to make a formal decision on the issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U134	Minister, the way it is now is that there are no more questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U135	Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U136	Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U137	We will move on to the next inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Olga Ivanova, Valeri Korb, Enn Eesmaa, Tarmo Tamm, Martin Repinski, Viktor Vassiliev, Märt Sults, Rein Ratas, Kadri Simson, Dmitri Dmitrijev, Lauri Laas and Peeter Ernits on the day of September 17th 2015. The number of drug deaths reported in Estonia is 72. Mr Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, will answer the question. I ask Olga Ivanova, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, who will introduce the inquiry!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U138	President-in-Office of the Council. Indeed, we have submitted an inquiry to Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur about the number of drug deaths in Estonia. In 2014, the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction published a report on drug problems in Europe, according to which Estonia stood out in 2012 with record figures. These were directly related to overdose deaths and indirectly to drug-related diseases, accidents, violence and suicide statistics. The current situation is much more diverse and complex than previous drug use. New psychoactive substances such as fentanyl, which is a highly potent opioid, can become overdoses as early as the first time. According to Katri Abel-Ollo, researcher at the Institute for Health Development, the number of deaths due to overdoses decreased in 2013 in absolute terms from 170 to 120, but according to the statistics of this year, 43 Estonians have already died from overdoses of the heroic drug fentanyl. We therefore have the following questions. In 2012, the average European overdose-related mortality among adults was estimated to be 17 deaths per million inhabitants. In Estonia, there were 191 deaths per million inhabitants, which is more than 11 times more. What has caused the number of deaths caused by such overdoses in Estonia? About one million seizures of illicit drugs are reported every year in Europe. The European report on drug problems in 2014 shows that the lowest number of drug seizures has been in Estonia since 2012, yet Estonia is the first in Europe in terms of the number of deaths due to overdoses. Does the Estonian Police and Border Guard Board not work effectively to confiscate narcotics or how do you justify this contradiction? The Internet is playing an increasingly important role in the development of drug sales methods. This poses complex problems, as it is difficult to identify the online supply chain, as manufacturers, suppliers, sellers, hosting and payment service providers may be located in different countries or are buying and selling via anonymous networks. What measures have been taken to prevent the spread of drugs sold online and have such cases been recorded in Estonia as of this year? The last question concerns prevention strategies to combat drug use and other drug problems. What is the availability of preventive measures against drug use in Estonia to the general public, including vulnerable groups, for whom the risk of problems related to drug use is higher?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U139	Thank you. I now ask Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, who responds to an inquiry that bears the number 72!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U140	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs and members of the Riigikogu! Since the representative of the inquisitors read all the questions nicely for so long and thoroughly, I'm going straight to the answers. Question one. Let me be more specific. According to the data available to me, there were 170 overdose deaths in Estonia in 2012, not 191. Last year the number of deaths fell below 100, to 98 in particular. So you can see the downward trend. We also asked the Institute for Forensics for the latest information and learned that 65 people have died in Estonia as a result of an overdose of drugs in eight months. It can be assumed that by the end of the year this figure will be even lower than 98. This, of course, is not a cause for rejoicing, but at least there is a downward trend and that is a good thing. If you are asking for the main reason, the main reason is indisputably fentanyl. It is a highly potent opioid, and it is very difficult to assess the potency of different batches and it causes various consequences. Unfortunately, that is the main cause of our drug deaths. If you look at such deaths a little more closely, the reasons are primarily that users are not able to evaluate the effects of a particular substance. Just in terms of information, fentanyl is at least 15 times stronger than heroin, and its strength is very volatile. The second question concerns comparison with Europe. This is where we have to explain what this European comparison means. Just reading may leave a little misconception. Our main problem is not heroin, the use of which is mostly compared, but fentanyl. Fentanyl has pushed heroin out of the market, and that's inevitably number one of our causes of death. Combating fentanyl is therefore also one of the priorities of the Police and Border Guard Board in the fight against drugs. If we look at the quantities confiscated by the police, in eight months of this year, we have already confiscated 15% more fentanyl than we did last year. But it is clear that this fight must continue. As far as quantities are concerned, one kilo of fentanyl on the market means at least 35,000 doses. If we take cannabis as a comparison, one kilo of cannabis could be 2,000 to 4,000 doses. In this sense, we all understand how little fentanyl is needed to get a drug addict's dose, and if he takes it wrong, the result is death. As far as online sales are concerned, we cannot confirm that most drugs are purchased in Estonia through this route. Rather, the problem relates in particular to ordering drugs from abroad. We are working very seriously with the Tax and Customs Board to identify and confiscate opioids or other drugs on demand abroad. Of course, we consider it necessary, namely, in view of the new medium, that we are training more and more police officers to detect and deal with crime in the internet. The fourth question is the prevention strategy. We are pleased to note that, in cooperation with partners, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Institute for Health Development and others, the Estonian state is increasingly placing emphasis on evidence-based prevention programmes. They have been financed both from the state budget and from external resources. I'll read out a few bigger ones. There is a bullying-reducing program called KiVa, a Behavior Game (Good Behavior Game), an evidence-based program called "Incredible Years," a community-based prevention program called SPIN, specifically targeted at risky young people. The Smart Elder portal has been in business for quite a long time. And if you look at the VEPA programme, for example, which is aimed at teachers, in the next four to five years, 200 teachers should receive further training through this programme. It is certainly worth adding to this the programme started by the Police and Border Guard Board itself since 2013, called 'The Clean Future', which is aimed primarily at cooperation with local governments. It has to be acknowledged that it has been launched in only a few parts of Tallinn, but we are certainly very interested that it can be extended to all parts of Tallinn and to other parts of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U141	Thank you. Minister, there are also questions for you. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U142	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! Thank you for specifying the figures for drug deaths. Of course, you'll have more accurate figures available, that's the way it's supposed to be. But you mentioned that fentanyl is the main cause of a large number of drug deaths. I have a little doubt that the main reason for fentanyl is that we have a high level of drug use. All the more so because there's been some downward trend over the last few years, but it's just recently released fentanyl on the market. So this fentanyl is not a national phenomenon. If the number of drug deaths is high, then drug use is also high, why is it still higher in Estonia than on average in Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U143	Thank you. I do not quite agree with the beginning of your question. The cause of death is an overdose of fentanyl. Fentanyl intake is generally achieved through steps. You know very well with your doctor's education that it usually starts with cannabis, then you move on to stronger drugs. Maybe it starts with even sniffing glue. Depends on the fate of the person or on the route he has reached the drug. But when you look at drug use, drug use in Estonia is no different from that of our neighbours. As far as fentanyl is concerned, however, we are an exception. In Finland, for example, there is not so much fentanyl consumption and there is hardly any fentanyl consumption in Central Europe. The particular feature of fentanyl is that it usually comes from our eastern neighbor and gets here. Therefore, consumption is also high here. And as I said, the cause of the deaths is above all that fentanyl's potency is unpredictable in every batch because this substance is synthetic. So that's where we need to look for reasons. As far as the downward trend is concerned, fentanyl has been on the Estonian market for several years, even decades. So the good work of recent years, the consistent work of recent years, has, hopefully, produced so much results that the use of young drugs has been reduced. And if I look at the latest studies, it is estimated that the number of injecting drug users in the 15-44 age group has fallen from about 15,000 (ten years ago) now to about 4 000.5000. So, after all, this figure has decreased three times in recent studies. Research is done by the National Institute for Health Development. Similarly, when taken in 2005, the number of injecting drug users in Estonia was estimated to be 2.7%, but by 2009 this figure had fallen to 0.9%. So there's a positive trend. This does not mean, however, that we do not have to continue our work.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U144	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U145	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good minister! It was only recently that the media spoke of a female citizen who was the subject of proceedings because cocaine was found in his blood. Do all those who are caught every day by the police moving around the streets drugged by drugs start a similar procedure, and do they feel punished?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U146	Thank you. There will certainly not be a similar procedure for everyone. In this case, I assume I know what you're referring to, a person said he was drugged. If there's a suspicion that a person has been drugged, of course, blood tests will be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U147	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U148	Thank you. Minister, thank you for your answers. But I had a question about the prevention mechanisms you were talking about. Has prevention also identified who are the people or young people at risk? At what age, what nationality are they, and are the existing drug distribution mechanisms contributing? Maybe you can explain in more detail how or where young people can get fentanyl.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U149	Thank you. With regard to young people's participation, of course, the programmes are primarily targeted at young people at risk. If we also take the SPIN programme that was first implemented this year, it was very successful. We didn't expect such a good result in the first year. We focused primarily on North Tallinn and Lasnamäe. The data was compiled together with the municipalities and schools. Of course, these programmes seek to involve young people in particular at risk. If you take another VEPA program, it's a plan to reach 4,000 students in the coming years. In fact, there are still quite a large number of people across Estonia to whom information is shared. With regard to the ways in which drugs are spread, the Riigikogu would not like to give a 'teach sequence' here in the large hall of the Riigikogu. I believe the inquisitors can imagine and read in the newspapers how it works. The easiest way is, of course, as I said, to start with light drugs and light stunning substances, whether it's glue sniffing or cannabis-using, but it's already reaching stronger drugs. Mostly, this information spreads from mouth to mouth.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U150	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U151	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, The portal Delfi brokered the news this morning that the collective appeal to the Riigikogu initiated by Kaur Kender has been given over a thousand signatures. I hope you are aware of the content of this appeal. Apart from the decriminalisation of cannabis, there are three proposals or ideas. Firstly, to develop, adopt and implement a strategy aimed at reducing drug deaths in Estonia. My question is, isn't that right now? Second and thirdly, it is proposed that action should be taken against fentanyl dependence, such as heroin substitution therapy and injection therapy. How do you feel about these proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U152	Thank you. Of course, there is a strategy for preventing and controlling drug addiction in Estonia, the abbreviation being NETS. There is also a White Paper under the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior, which seeks to replace the new programme. As regards substitution treatment or the so-called injection room as such, there is a network commissioned by the Ministry of Social Affairs and implemented by the Institute for Health Development, which primarily uses methadone replacement therapy. So there is the possibility of substitution treatment in Estonia. What are the treatment components that are used, whether you are left on methadone alone or you can do something else in the future, is be evaluated by experts. Today, methadone replacement treatment is available in Estonia and is, of course, offered in different places throughout Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U153	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U154	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I ask how you feel about legalising cannabis in Estonia. There have been proposals to this effect, and this issue is on the agenda. As we know in the Netherlands, this is allowed, but, as far as I know, there is already a belief that it should be brought to an end. What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U155	Thank you. No, I don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U156	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U157	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. My question, too, is based on the recent demonstration here in front of the Riigikogu building, where three of your party associates, Yoko Alender, Heidy Purga and Eerik-Niles Kross, also appeared. This demonstration also demanded precisely what Tarmo Tamm was asking whether cannabis should be legalised. Following this demonstration, the same politicians mentioned above announced that it would be necessary to set up a special committee to discuss this issue. Do you know how far it is to set up a special committee and whether you or anyone from the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Social Affairs is involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U158	Thank you. I do not know about Parliament's debate, I cannot say. No, I'm not involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U159	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U160	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned that we have drugs flowing across the eastern border. We know from the experience of Western countries that mass immigration, or immigration at all, especially from Africa and the Middle East, has also been accompanied by a very rapid increase in drug trafficking and the spread of drugs. Is that what Estonia is meant for? Have any action been taken to reduce the number of drug deaths from that side?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U161	Thank you. The Estonian Police and Border Guard Board cooperates very closely with the Estonian Tax and Customs Board to identify all kinds of violations at the border, including drug smuggling. As far as I am concerned, for example, the Tax and Customs Board is currently acquiring new large X-ray machines to speed up and improve the screening of trucks and containers and to identify illegal goods. Work is being done to identify and confiscate goods on the border, regardless of where and what the goods are to come from.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U162	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U163	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Ten years ago, a great deal of work was started on setting up low-threshold centres. I remember that the first three were in Kohtla-Järve, Tallinn and Paide. In my experience, they were doing quite well because their creation had to do with places where people in need live. And those who worked there were properly trained to work with people who use drugs. Can you tell me why this system didn't start?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U164	Thank you. In addition to national activities, there are a lot of volunteers who are involved in drug prevention. Sillamäe has its own centre, there is one centre in Keila forests near Tallinn, and there is more and more where it is volunteered. Whether or not to combine them into one network is a matter of taste. Rather, the Institute for Health Development, which has been involved in drug prevention, has done as much as it has been able and able, and has also supported volunteers as much as it has. It is like any other area in Estonia that, if there was more money, it would certainly be possible to do more. But right now we are living in the knowledge that all the centers that work are reasonable to keep alive and busy. For those who have ceased their activities, it is necessary to assess whether or not further action is needed. As far as I know, the National Institute for Health Development deals with this every day and decides whether and with whom a contract is concluded at national level.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U165	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U166	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Interviews and stories of current and former drug users are published from time to time in the press, all of whom, like one's mouth, confirm that access to drugs on the street and at party places is absolutely no problem. My question is that, if this is not a problem they say is not a problem, does it mean that we will not have enough resources for the police to take control of the drug networks and sales outlets? What do you think the problem is?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U167	Thank you. As I said at the end of the answer to the previous question, the police could certainly do more to prevent the spread of drug addiction if there were additional resources and human resources. Police resources are currently primarily aimed at breaking down drug chains and apprehending landers, but street trade must be dealt with in the same way. The poor side of street trade is just that if we eliminate the so-called street dealers, they will unfortunately be replaced by new ones. Above all, we still need to reach organizers, shippers and break chains like this. This is much more important in the fight against drugs than picking up a few grams of people on the street. Of course, it is not worth reading that they should not be dealt with. Yes, it is. But if we want to fight drugs properly, then the organisers must be dealt with first.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U168	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U169	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I have a question about the MMS product or drink, whatever it is called. What about whether or not we have a banned substance in the Republic of Estonia? What is your opinion on the impact of this product on the health of people in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U170	Thank you. Now we've gone on the subject of health, but I'm just saying my subjective opinion. Chlorine dioxide is naturally a health hazard and, in this sense, there is no question whether it should be recommended by anyone to consume it or not. It's incomprehensible to me how parents give it to children. It is not a banned substance, nor is sulphuric acid prohibited in the Republic of Estonia. But look, if sulphuric acid isn't banned, it doesn't mean it can be used. It's about the same with chlorine oxide. If a thing is not banned, it doesn't mean it can be used. Man still has to have enough sense and intelligence. Just sodium chloride, or salt, can also be very harmful to your health if you take it in an incorrect amount. It's the same with sugar. So if there are substances that are not banned, this does not mean that they are automatically allowed and can be consumed. No, you can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U171	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No, I don't. So the question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U172	Let's move on to the next question, which is the sixth in line. The topic is the financing of the Police and Border Guard Board, the inquiry is numbered 73 and is submitted on 21 September 2015. Reply by Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur. Please ask Toomas Vitsuti, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu's speech chair, who will introduce the questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U173	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I and 18 other members of the Central Party Group submitted an inquiry. We are concerned about issues concerning internal security, but not only that, but also the external borders of the European Union. Since the Cabinet approved the state budget freshly, I think it is precisely the right time to ask such questions. The amounts of the budget should already be very precise and clear. Based on the experience of previous years, including last year's experience, the Police and Border Guard Board has been forced into a quite strong diet, with quite tough austerity tasks being given to improve efficiency. For example, last year the Police and Border Guard Board saved EUR 4.8 million. This resulted in the loss of around 250 jobs. When we look at the last five years, as many as 853 people have been made redundant from the Police and Border Guard Board. This has made it possible to raise wages quite a lot, with 9% of the money added, i.e. wages have risen from EUR 775 to EUR 975. But life goes on, and in order to keep up with the wage increases in other sectors, further growth is also necessary. The financial situation of next year is made difficult by the fact that the Riigikogu has taken quite a number of decisions that increase costs. For example, excise duties on fuel should cost EUR 1.66 million more next year. That is why the Centre Party Group has put forward five questions in its inquiry in order to better guide the debate on the forthcoming budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U174	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be answered by the Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U175	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs and members of the Riigikogu! I am very pleased that members of the Riigikogu are interested in the welfare of the police, and it is always a pleasure to talk about it. Let's start with the budget first. The first question is how much the PPP budget will increase next year and how much the employees' payroll fund will increase. The budget of the PBGB is growing by about 10% more than the general government budget as a whole, and I am only pleased about that. It will increase to EUR 95 million according to current calculations, so the decimal places still specify. As far as the payroll fund is concerned, it is the case that, as we agreed in the government, only four sectors will benefit from the payroll: internal security, cultural workers, educational workers and people working in social welfare. For the administration of the Ministry of the Interior, this means an additional salary of €4.7 million for next year. How we divide it exactly between agencies will be decided in the near future. The focus is on special servants, or policemen, emergency personnel and rescue officers, but we will make an exact decision in the near future. At present, only €4.7 million is known. The second question: 'How much money does the Ministry of the Interior intend to allocate next year to the PBGB to improve the manning and supply of border guards and to build a control line? ' That is, I believe, the best point in our budget for next year. We have decided that next year we will start building the border in addition to the preparatory work carried out this year, which cost an amount of EUR 3 million. Next year, the total amount of 20 million will be dedicated to building a pure border. Added to this is the change in the fleet, which costs about 3 million euros within this money are both land vehicles and drones, which we have planned to buy if necessary. And here it can be added that Piusa cordon will be completed, which will be the base point of the border guard in South-East Estonia. The construction of the Piusa cordon costs 4.6 million euros according to my memory. Similarly, at the end of this year, the builder will be able to perform well at the Narva-2 border crossing. This, too, will certainly improve the working conditions at the border. There's so much more of the equipment, we're gonna get more personal protection equipment and armaments. Regarding the weaponry, the border guards were given new Walthers, or handguns, at the beginning of this year. The third question is what are the actions to reduce police working hours and how to reduce bureaucracy. A little bit of statistics, too. Compliance with the speed limit accounts for about 20% of all traffic surveillance and over 51000 traffic offences were detected in the first seven months of 2015, of which 25000 were speeding. We are certainly looking for ways to speed up the process. One way to make work more effective and reduce police hours would be to use automatic speed cameras in addition to stationary speed cameras. The first test of mobile automatic speed cameras will take place tomorrow. Don't speed up on the Pirita road! On Friday, we took the first quick test, the results of which are rather startling. At half an hour's measurement, I'll tell you by memory, 480 cars were half speeding. A third of this 480 exceeded the speed of more than 10 km/h and 1% exceeded the speed of more than 20 km/h. It was on Pirita Road, in the city of Tallinn. And this time it was just a test camera setup or a sample measurement. Tomorrow at 1:00, we'll put him on Pirita Road for test measurements. From now on, until the end of the year, we will test it all over Estonia. If the test measurements are successful, we will use them next year in cooperation with the Road Administration. That is precisely what we are doing to increase the control of the limit speed. It is certainly important that we can make the procedure itself more effective. We have proposed to the Ministry of Justice that the video procedure be used more widely so that there is no need to comply with so many protocols. Let's see if it's possible to take a misdemeanor protocol into a shorter form. All these activities are ongoing. And we will most likely also have to come to Parliament to change the law of misdemeanour proceedings, rather than the law, to be precise. So the support of the Committee on Legal Affairs is absolutely necessary. The fourth question concerns the PPA service cars. Indeed, we have been negotiating for quite some time with the Ministry of Finance on how to keep the police fleet in longer-term use. Perhaps the operating lease should be replaced by a financial lease. The most important thing is how we can ensure budget savings in a purely financial perspective. We have tried to estimate that this could save a maximum of up to EUR 400000 per year. But conversations are ongoing. Since the initial investment must be higher in the case of financial leasing or, for example, in the case of buy-out, there are now close negotiations with the Ministry of Finance. It shall be calculated whether there is a better operating lease, a capital lease or an immediate buy-out. The path chosen has not yet been decided. In any case, there is an understanding that we will be able to keep them in use for a longer period of four to five years from the current operating lease dates when we are rotating police cars. The fifth question is what more could be done through legislative changes in order to save the costs of the PBGB. Here we can say, I hope that there will soon be changes in criminal proceedings from the government under the direction of the Ministry of Justice. We see that evidence should be collected to avoid duplication of pre-trial and judicial procedures and to create IT opportunities. We know that in criminal proceedings, both pre-trial and court proceedings, a large number of written documents are currently being produced, instead of which video recordings could actually be used. Similarly, it is possible to opt out of stenographing, for example, if video material is available. If there are security videos or juvenile interrogation protocols, there would be no need for stenographing, but they could be considered evidence. It should also be considered that the information obtained by surveillance activities could be used as a video or audio recording, and that it would not need to be verbatimised. All of this would save us a lot of hours. These are the proposals we have made to the Ministry of Justice because they hold the Code of Criminal Procedure. Let us hope that they reach Parliament. There's still a slight change in the S.T.S. plan, but we'll talk about it in the future. It is simply the case that the Police and Border Guard Board and the Ministry of Justice in the field of criminal custody are currently dealing with it. It is worth considering whether it would be reasonable to add them together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U176	Thank you very much. Minister, there are also questions for you. Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U177	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! The Committee on Legal Affairs visited the situation and construction of our eastern border this summer. It turned out that in a pretty drastic situation there was also a river's border, i.e. it has grown exactly as a land border and needs to be cleaned. We have talked a lot about this: that the land border will be fixed; that is probably now enough money from the budget. When we examined how the river border was being cleaned, we did not honestly get very clear answers. It turned out to be like three stages, and clearing the river border goes under one of them, but it got mixed up in funding. Can you clear this up?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U178	Thank you. Yeah, I do. The river border is part of the completion of our eastern border and the completion of the eastern border has been undertaken as a whole. The river boundary, Lake Peipsi, or both Lake Peipsi and Lake Lämmijärv, is planned to be established and we will start with these activities in the right stages. First we have to make the access road, then the patrol tracks. Where possible, we are already starting the next phase. But I think we've agreed that the Committee on Legal Affairs will come to visit us at the Ministry of the Interior and then we'll show you the detailed timeline for the construction of the border, along with the work to be done. So the questioner will certainly get an answer to all the detailed questions, along with the picture material, when the Legal Affairs Committee comes to visit the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U179	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U180	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. There's nothing to save on internal security anymore, it's already been cut pretty hard over the years. Apparently, the 4-5% salary increase you will be able to pay for the workers next year will not satisfy them or change the situation. I ask whether you think there is anything else that can be cut within the system and whether the Ministry of the Interior will also have to reduce the number of employees next year, based on the 750 workers that the state will lay off. Does the Ministry of the Interior belong to it and, if so, who will be made redundant first and foremost?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U181	Thank you. Indeed, the government has adopted a plan to reduce the number of people paid by the state by 750 next year. For the Ministry of the Interior, this means a differentiated reduction in its area of government, 52 people. We have discussed it in detail, at least in the Ministry, and we will negotiate it with all the agencies in the coming weeks. I've promised one thing, and that's what I'm gonna keep. Namely, the Ministry of the Interior or my decision does not concern the Police and Border Guard Board. In relation to others, I believe that we are approaching as rationally as possible. I've spoken to the National Defence Academy, it's possible to reduce the level of management. For the Ministry of the Interior, I have said that there we will probably reduce the highest percentage, i.e. 15 people in the circuit. So, yes, it concerns the Ministry, and it also concerns all other authorities in the area of government. But the Police and Border Guard Board may be calm, it doesn't concern them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U182	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U183	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. A year ago, when Eston Kohver was kidnapped from the Estonian border, the Estonian public was exposed to the pitiful state not only of our southern border, which is not guarded anyway, but also of our eastern border. At the time, you sat in the "Actual Camera" studio and said that the Estonian border was guarded. Now, a year later, you will tell us how 20 million euros from the state budget will be given to fix the Estonian border. Hasn't anything really been done this year? How much effort should it take to clean 300 kilometers of bush? Eesti Energia cleans underline bushes several times every year. The second question I have is what is good for building a border if there are no border guards there.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U184	Thank you. You're completely lost. In the sense that if you want to offer a working hand, your help to us, i.e. the State Forest Management Centre, is always welcome. RMK has done its job very well. Unfortunately, the nature of Estonia is such that it is not possible to do everything in exactly the schedule you want to do. The State Forest Management Centre has now cleared over 200 hectares of border areas. And if the weather is merciful to us, then with the great winter colds, we will be able to finish the work that can only be done in cold weather, because there is a lot of swampy territory in the border regions. As regards the construction and surveillance of the border, I still believe that the Estonian border is guarded. But we want to get the best border between Europe and the world with our eastern neighbour. This is fully achievable as an objective if, in the coming years, all plans can be implemented with the support of Parliament. For the next year, as I said, we have planned 20 million, the next three or four years would require about the same amount of additional funding. Then we will be able to talk about the fact that border guards have the same number on the eastern border as they had ten years ago, for example, there are technical aids up to the drones to guard the Estonian border as well as possible. The Estonian border will receive 100% electronic surveillance.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U185	And now Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U186	Thank you. First of all, we are working with our neighbours - Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. From there we will certainly have sufficient information as to whether there is reason to worry about the border line between Estonia and Latvia along land and whether additional patrols need to be directed there, further checks to be carried out there, or whether it is necessary to go to such extreme measures as Austria, Germany, Croatia or Hungary, where the internal Schengen border has been restored. In this sense, we are in constant contact, and if necessary, we will include additional force. We have experience of the last visit by Barack Obama to temporarily restore the Schengen border, when we also used the aid of the Defence League. So these mechanisms are thought through.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U187	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U188	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. In 2007, the police were unable to cope alone with the control of gangs raging on the streets of Tallinn. As a matter of urgency, the Defence League and the Defence League were called upon to help. Now we've got a lot less cops. By listening to your answers, it becomes more and more clear to me that not so much construction is needed, but that we need to be manned. You yourself also admitted that there was a shortage of labour when you proposed to Martin to come clean the brush of the border. I have a proposition for you. We're willing to come to the border to clean the brush. We're going to do some work, but as a member of your government, come with us. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U189	I've been on the border many times. If I have to, I always go back there. And if you have to pick up an axe, I'll pick up the ax. No problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U190	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U191	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You have said that you support the construction of the border fence. At the same time, the Minister of Foreign Affairs confirms that no fence is being built. Which minister am I supposed to believe? Will a fence be built on the Russian border or not, and if so, when will it be completed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U192	Thank you. The border facility is over 300 kilometres long from the bottom of the trio, from the village of Parmu to the top of the Narva-Jõesuu. The border facility means that there is a river border, as I said, the boundary of Lake Peipsi and also the land border. On the land border, we use all the normal border marking elements and the elements necessary for border surveillance, the patrol track, the animal garden, if necessary, also the wire fence, but certainly not the whole range. So we use those parts of the facility that are important for marking and guarding the border, which give us the best result so that we have a well-guarded Estonian border. We also use electronic surveillance. I am not going to describe exactly what it is now, but I can assure you that the current projects are a 100% electronic surveillance system. And so we use all the necessary components to ensure that the Estonian border is well guarded, well protected. We'll make a border garden if we have to.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U193	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U194	Thank you to the manager. Good minister! I want to say that you thank RMK too much. It is elementary that a public undertaking carries out public tasks. You can't imagine that the police should go to the border to clean the brush. RMK has to deal with this. Let me get this straight. Your answer to Martin Helme is that the country's ability at the border is to clean 200 hectares a year. Why is there so little, and what is behind our ability?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U195	Thank you. You didn't get it right. Our ability is much greater, but nature has set its limits. There are two reasons why we do not have the land border strip clean to the end. The first is the soft soil of nature. Another reason is the unfinished negotiations with private land owners. I am saying from my head that there should be about 26 private owners with whom negotiations are still ongoing. They are waiting for a national assessment to decide whether or not they will sell a piece of their border strip to the state and whether or not there will be any other use. These are two reasons why this work is still unfinished. I have no doubt about RMK's performance. There is a very simple reason why I praised RMK. Usually, such work is accompanied by a bill. In this case, the State Forest Management Centre has not submitted an invoice to us, i.e. the Police and Border Guard Board and the Ministry of the Interior. That's why I'm saying it's a big help. This is certainly a new situation for them too, because they started work at such short notice and all the work needed an "on-the-spot" organisation. They were very flexible, and that's why I thank them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U196	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U197	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Lately, we're talking a lot about the eastern border having to be cleaned up. We put a lot of money in there and we do a lot of work. But I've never read anything about an Eastern neighbor doing anything there. You've been there more. Why don't you give me some information about what's going on over there in the area of border management?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U198	Thank you. There's not much going on, but sometimes there's something going on. It wasn't a very meaningful answer, but it is. There are some passages where they have cleaned the border in the same way, and there are some passages where they have celebrated something, but as far as we know, they have not done as much work as Estonia has done.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U199	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U200	Thank you for your question. Mr Kaskpeit certainly knows very well what is really like with men, and he also knows that ten years ago there were as many border guards on the eastern border as there are now. We can hold this debate for a longer time, in private, but I believe there is no doubt that the border guard has been manned as much as we have had the opportunity. Similarly, if the border guard receives new technical resources, he will also be able to make use of these opportunities. All of this, whether drones or electronic surveillance devices, is still a means of really catching criminals. We will manage to ensure that all illegal crossings of the Estonian border receive a fair and appropriate response.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U201	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U202	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The Koidula border point has also been designated as one of the objects within the framework of Estonian-wide projects. Can you tell me what kind of work it's planning?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U203	Thank you. I don't have a specific list with me right now. Not until Saturday at the Koidula border crossing, I'm saying it's not too bad. The Koidula border inspection facility is in a perfectly satisfactory condition. Of course, it needs a little moustache here and there. With Riigi Kinnisvara AS, we have talked not only about the mustache of Koidula, but also about the need for Luhamaa border crossing point, a bad word, say, renovation. Both Koidula and Luhamaa could use some refreshment. But that doesn't mean they can't work normally right now. Yes, he can.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U204	March Sults, please, your turn!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U205	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! The fact that you're on the border right now is a very grateful thing, because in the end the border will be fixed, the obstacle bar will be fixed and all the other things will be done. But there's one thing I don't understand. The Republic of Estonia has 21 years, we have been in the European Union for 11 years and NATO for 11 years. What the hell are we defending this border for now? Who is responsible for the fact that this border has long been out of order? Why doesn't that stop? Why did something like this happen to Mr. Suitcase? Absurd! Who is responsible, when is responsible, and who is brought before the people to account?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U206	Thank you. Now you have taken a few years off the Estonian state. For a little more than 21 years, we've been free. But it's a little hard for me to judge who's responsible. The authorities of the Estonian state together with the Riigikogu and everyone involved are jointly responsible for the fact that so far no attention has been paid to making the border right. There's been a number of reasons. There is certainly one reason why it is assumed and hoped that the border agreement with Russia will be ratified quickly, that the border should not be cleaned several times and marked off several times. I very much hope that this Parliament will be able to ratify the border agreements. But in my opinion, even without ratification, it is possible to build a border. Even if it needs to be shifted to one side or the other in small sections, the fact that more than 90% of the limit is in the same place as the current control line does not change. Looking back doesn't make us much richer, looking back. Therefore, let us focus on ensuring that, with the help of the Riigikogu, all budgets can be approved and border work can be continued.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U207	Minister, we are moving forward with questions at a rapid pace. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U208	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In view of the difficult situation with refugees, is the Latvian border also intended for basic cleaning? As far as I know, there's no work going on there. Is it seriously intended that, if necessary, internal border controls should be stepped up and the Latvian border should also be cleaned?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U209	Thank you. We'll do what we can. Of course, the first order of business is the border between Estonia and the Russian Federation, and it will also take us several years. But as far as the border between Estonia and Latvia is concerned, until we have free movement and visa liberalisation in the Schengen area, we will not restore the border between Estonia and Latvia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U210	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U211	Good President! Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I will answer the question of March Sults on behalf of the Minister. It is quite clear who is responsible for the government's responsibility. Or the previous government or the previous government, because the government is running the country. The government has the resources to do this - money, people, contract rights and all that. It's all clear, there's no mystery here. But the subject of my speech is not to draw attention to it. The point of my speech is to draw the government's attention, in this case, to the fact that we no longer live in a peaceful post-war post-Soviet world. We live in a world after the Cold War. This means that we have come into a very volatile situation and see what is happening south of us. We see what's going on east of us. War is no longer a feature of the pages of the history book. War is a thing that is in many places and is not very far from us. That means we don't have the luxury of being smart about whether we're going to guard our borders with drones. Are the drones going to arrest someone? Are the drones holding the armored columns? Are the drones holding the borderbreakers? No, you don't. They're just fixing. Or can we fully set up electronic surveillance throughout our border perimeter? These are all good things, of course modern technologies help us, but there is nothing to replace a person. We have therefore issued a letter of formal notice to the members of the government, the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, in which we wish to restore border surveillance throughout the Estonian border. But that will not be possible if we do not restore independent border guards. Independent border guards and border guards cannot be restored by using nipples. It all takes time, it requires resources, it requires organisational action, it essentially requires the creation of a new organisation. But we are deeply convinced, and I think we are foresighted, that it needs to be dealt with. This requires the provision of funds in the budget for next year. The deck's short. We understand everything. If Mr. Nearly was here, he would immediately say that we still have to think about the sources of cover. Well, then, we'll think about the sources of cover. But in this turbulence world, we have difficult choices before us, and I am quite convinced: if we want Estonia to remain Estonia, then we need border guards, we need border guarding. Let us see what happens in Hungary. By the way, Hungary was able to build its border in a few months, although their border is only a little longer than ours. So there's nothing mysterious here. It's always about will, about priorities. It's not like I'm not with Mr. Secretary. To be honest, I don't have very much reproach for everything he said here. I just want to put forward the position of our group on this issue. The border must be guarded and the border must be guarded as a border guard's own organisation. This is our serious request on this issue of financing. Gentlemen, you've already locked up next year's budget, but it hasn't been through this hall yet. Maybe we can still make some adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U212	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Electronic surveillance is, of course, good for your advertised sensors and cameras, now there are still drones coming, but it does not stop or catch borderbreakers. So far, it is the private police and the border guards that have been made redundant several times in order to save expenditure. A while ago, it was customary to direct border guards to perform police duties to resolve family disputes and to measure speed. Here's the question: who will use the information from drones and electronics when people are on police duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U213	Thank you. I don't see any more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U214	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U215	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! I apologize in advance if my question is a little inappropriate. There's a kapo next to the Police and Border Guard Board. I understand that the funds for the Kapo are covered by state secrets, but that this is still a structure that guarantees national security, then I am probably not the only one who cares about it, perhaps the entire Estonian people are interested. What is the trend: will funding increase, decrease or remain at the same level next year? If this is not a state secret, people wonder if such an important structure guaranteeing national security will be adequately funded.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U216	Thank you. More specifically, I cannot comment, but I can tell you this, you asked whether funding would increase or decrease, that there would be additional resources for the Defence Police Department. Some long bearded stories can also be solved on investment. So I think we can be more or less satisfied. There would certainly be something more to be done, just as in all our agencies, for example, on the real estate side alone. For example, Riigi Kinnisvara AS has said that it will not take more than 40 years to complete the area of government of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. But in short, yes, the possibilities of the Defence Police Department are increasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U217	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U218	Thank you. Minister of the Interior! I heard your answers when you said that in some ways manpower could be replaced by machines, and you mentioned mobile speed cameras, for example. Today you are better informed about the state budget for the coming year than we are here because you are a member of the government office and the government has adopted the budget today, we will have it tomorrow. When the traffic cameras were introduced in 2009, it was planned to bring 360 million kroons per year into the budget, which is just over 23 million euros. What are the forecasts for traffic cameras next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U219	Thank you. I should find a table that'll take some time. I would like to make it more precise, I have already made it clear in my previous response to what I had in mind. In answer to your question, that doesn't mean we're replacing the police. There will be no reduction in the number of police officers. We're introducing mobile traffic cameras, speed cameras, as an additional option, to increase surveillance capacity. That doesn't mean reducing the police. We still need cops, we need more. But as for the revenue from the traffic cams, maybe it's okay if I find out about this table and tell you what the revenue is scheduled for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U220	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U221	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I am very pleased to hear that the salaries of the Police and Border Guard Board are rising and that work on the eastern border is progressing. But today we are in a situation where Schengen has virtually collapsed, the southern border of the European Union does not even hold as many illegal refugees as the sieve, tens or even hundreds of thousands of immigrants moving from one country to another in Europe completely unhindered. In some places, they try to stop them. In this regard, I have a question. After all, it has been predicted that these flows could begin to move on this side of the road to Finland by people who want to move to Finland. What is Estonia going to do, and are we going to do something to protect our southern border?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U222	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! We have repeatedly visited the people of the Police and Border Guard Board in the political group, both within this group and in the previous group. And every time you talk about it, it's pretty much the same. The government says that funding is getting better and the police's wages are rising, but the reality is that they have to keep being laid off and wages are being raised again at the expense of internal resources. Actually, the situation isn't improving. We have been shown the schemes that they have to play around all the time to finance, and they have been very well explained. In fact, our foreign defence is constantly getting more money, including next year's budget. But internal security is also important. Do you think so? Should we not still place emphasis on police salaries and everything that a person encounters every day?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U223	Thank you. I didn't exactly understand the first part of the question. Once I've looked at this and talked to the Police and Border Guard Board about it, they've actually gone to the money. Toomas Vitsu, too, read very well that the minimum wage for police officers has risen from EUR 775 to EUR 975. It's a pretty big growth. Of course, this does not mean that the raise reached all people. But the goal was to significantly increase the salaries of those who received the lowest salary. If you take a percentage rise from 775 to 975, you'll see it's remarkable. With regard to the so-called general issue, every additional euro that can be allocated to the Police and Border Guard Board or to internal security at large and also to the security services, I am very happy to receive from this Chamber. We know how to use it efficiently and rationally, don't worry about it at all. I believe that next year's budget negotiations have actually done quite well. I'll just give you a few examples. The state border with its 20 million already came through here, but the Police and Border Guard Board, for example, will receive 0.7 million euros for identity documents and 600,000 euros for relief police equipment. The cost of e-residency will be increased by 300000 and the additional needs resulting from the National Defence Development Plan will be 0.4 million. The cost of the National Defence Development Plan will be added to a million more this year. For police officers, this means actually buying impact-proof buses and new patrol cars. For border guards, this means acquiring new personal protection equipment. I could continue for a long time with the list of additional investments we have planned for next year compared to what we started the budgetary process with. And if we take internal security more widely, I should add 80 more rescue cars, I should add six ladder cars, and so on. In this sense, I believe that looking at the whole thing, next year's situation is not at all bad. Next year the construction of Vastseliina and Vändra commando will also begin. So there's quite a lot of positive and quite a lot of extra resources. But like I said, extra money is always welcome. If there's anything more in this hall, we'll find a way to use it effectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U224	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U225	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I also took part in the visit of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which Mr Vitsut described. For me, one of the most remarkable and strange examples was the fact that the road to light traffic has been planned with euro money, but unfortunately it is not on this side, which at the same time would help border guards to guard the river and also, let us say, solve the brush problem. As far as I know, the institution has also made an observation and forwarded it to the Ministry, but no positive responses had yet come at that point. Would it still not be wise to look at our light traffic routes and other infrastructure together? After all, we are not such a rich country that we can make a road on one side of the road to light traffic, which is intended for border guards, and on the other side of the road that is for citizens. The Authority considers that they could be combined.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U226	Thank you for that observation. I guess the local government has a desire to make a pedestrian road that way, and apparently they applied for support from regional funds. If the municipality has planned it there, I don't know why, perhaps there were reasons why it couldn't be planned on the other side, whether it was a matter of land or whatever. I'm sure we can check that out. Of course, from our perspective, we use at least every additional hand and tool to improve our daily working conditions. For example, this same border is being cleared in cooperation with the State Forest Management Centre, to whom I am sincerely grateful that they took up this work. It is very, very helpful to us that we, together with RMK, can clear these border areas as a barter deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U227	Let's move on to the seventh question. The members of the Riigikogu, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Heimar Leng, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velmani, Lauri Laasi, Andrei Novikov, Dmitri Dmitrijev, Enn Esemaa, Tarmo Tamme, Rein Ratas, Olga Ivanova, Martin Repinski, Erki Savisaare, Jaanus Kariladi, Priit Toobali, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korbi, Mailis Repsi and Kadri Simson have been questioned on the day of 27 May 2015. An inquiry shall be made in respect of an old-age pension and shall bear the number 25. The Minister for Social Protection, Margus Tsahkna, will answer the question. Please introduce the questioning of the Riigikogu's speech chair to the representative of the heirs Marika Tuus-Lauli!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U228	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The subject is certainly familiar to all of you, this is our unfair pension calculation. We made this request in the spring, and now the deadline for reply is coming to an end. I therefore think that the Minister has dealt with the matter thoroughly because there has been time. We wonder what the position of the current, so-called new government should be in pension accounts. Why does our pension system favour high-wage earners, while leaving people earning minimum and up to average wages in a very unfair situation? The Centre Party Group wants to draw attention once again to the need to change the pension system in such a way that one year of work for people receiving minimum and up to average salaries begins to equal one year of pension, saying the language of the people. The previous composition of the Riigikogu changed the term and now it is part of pension insurance, but the content of it did not change. We know that very many, nearly 80%, have a salary below average for nurses, kindergarten teachers and many others. We also know that if social tax is paid on average wages, the annual coefficient is 1.0. If a person earns less than the average salary, the coefficient shall be less than 1.0. A very low earner has to work three years to get that coefficient to one. We are interested in the position of the new government. Is this injustice to be eradicated, and why is the amount of a person's income considered to be an indicator of the contribution to work in Estonia? We don't think that's the way it should be. Why is there no significant desire to increase the basic pension component that would affect the income of people on low incomes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U229	Thank you very much. I would ask the Minister for Social Protection, Margus Tsahkna, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, to provide answers to the questions asked!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U230	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a question. I will first answer the questions that have been put to me. The first question: 'What is the new government union planning to do about the problem of the pension system? 'The programme of action of the Government of the Republic states that in March 2016, the Minister for Social Protection shall submit to the Government an analysis and proposals on the sustainability of the national retirement pension. The analysis paper sets out the baseline scenario, sets out the levels and main objectives of pension insurance, i.e. adequacy of pensions, solidarity and financial sustainability, and proposes ways to achieve these objectives. The main factors affecting these objectives are the retirement age, the pension formula, the pension index and the qualification period. The analysis document is prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs together with specialists from the Ministry of Finance and analysts and researchers of the relevant specialty. In total, they are called a project team. The Steering Group, composed of representatives of the target group, shall, where appropriate, attach an opinion to the document. The Steering Group shall be non-formal and open to all interested parties. The proposals based on the analysis shall be made in cooperation. You can also see a cooperation scheme in the responses you have received. To sum this up briefly, the Steering Group meeting has taken place, the Ministry of Finance has carried out a broader analysis of our entire pension system, and according to the Government of the Republic's agenda, we are ready to come up in March with our proposals on the sustainability of the pension system. This actually also concerns the problems of special pensions, which have been partly resolved, but some of them are still up. In short, the opinions of the target groups that have so far remained sound can be summarised as follows: Pensions could be of sufficient size for all and for those with a higher contribution to work could also have a higher pension. Pensions could vary by a maximum of five times and, for the sake of greater solidarity, social tax should be charged or pensions paid from other income. The debate on the topics will continue in the autumn, i.e. now. In November, there will be a larger engagement event for target groups, where any wisher can express his or her opinion. The second question: 'Why do you think it's fair that in Estonia, the amount of income is considered to be an indicator of a person's contribution to work? ' Estonian people's pensions are now relatively equal in size, because they depend largely on the length of time worked and many current pensioners have the same length of uninterrupted service. In the 1990s, however, at the time the pension system was set up, society held the view that pensions of equal size were not correct. 'Real pension' should have depended on the size of each individual's contributions. Since 1999, there has been a scheme under which pensions become increasingly dependent on the taxes paid in working life from year to year. Changes to the pension system will have a significant impact only in decades' time. At first, the pensions that people receive are still almost equal. However, due to the differences in wages and the low wages of many people, a large proportion of future pensioners face low pensions. In the future, it would be necessary to redistribute pension funds within the generation in order to pay an adequate pension for all, i.e. to create a situation in which the tax payers would be able to recover significantly less from the pension scheme than those making small contributions. At the same time, those who make larger contributions must remain motivated to contribute more. If pensions are to be equal for all, the contribution should also be equal, which means, for example, the introduction of a social tax ceiling. This, in turn, means that the pension insurance budget would have less money to pay current pensions. At present, pensions are also paid from state resources. The third question: 'When is the government going to change the system of indexing the pension insurance unit? ' The Government will propose to the Riigikogu to change the indexation system if the analysis shows the need for changes. The analysis will be completed in March next year. In 2008, the indexation formula was changed so that the base share of the pension formula for all would increase faster by indexation than the contribution-dependent insurance component. This was done to slow down the inequality of pensions. If, as a result of the analysis, as well as the joint debate, pensions are considered to be even more equal, then there is one way to change indexation so that the base part grows even faster. That is the answer to the question of how to solve this problem. Question 4: 'Very many people are concerned and confused about a situation where, due to the social tax paid on wages, one year worked does not count with an annual coefficient of 1,0. What is your vision of a pension system that guarantees equal opportunities for all good workers? ' If a person has worked for at least one year for a minimum salary, one year of employment shall count as one year of seniority. From April of this year, the word 'insurance unit' is used instead of 'annual coefficient', precisely because it would be easier for people to understand that it is not a component measuring the length of working time. Instead of length, the insurance unit, or the 'annual coefficient', shows the person's financial contribution to the pension system. If, in discussions with target groups, it is considered that the size of the first pillar pension should no longer be based on the size of the person's contributions, but only on the length of time worked, then a change can be introduced to this effect. But that would require a change in the pension system. There were no further questions about this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U231	Minister, thank you. You have questions here too. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U232	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. Last Friday, we visited Järvamaa with a group. Together with Marika Tuus-Laul and other members of the Riigikogu, we also visited Paide Day Centre for the elderly and met its visitors. One of their main concerns was the old age pension and the care home payment. Of course, they did not expect, nor did I expect, that most pensioners should go to a nursing home, but there will be cases. Unfortunately, the situation is that old-age pension is not enough to pay for a nursing home, the cost of which is on average between 600 and 700 euros in Estonia. Children are often unable to pay this premium or the excess of the pension, and local authorities are not too quick to pay the difference either. What would you say to these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U233	Thank you, good questioner! I, too, have been around Estonia very much and have met the elderly. I've also been to nursing homes. It is a concern in many places that the pension does not cover the cost of a nursing home. We have to admit that our pensions are not just high enough to be able to pay the market price for the service that many older people need. The simple answer is to increase pensions for people who already receive pensions. I am talking specifically about those people who are already retired. If we change the pension system so that it affects future pension beneficiaries in decades' time, it will not really help the people who have to cover these costs now. I do not want to say that the Estonian Government has raised pensions at an enormous rate, but I think that all the governments that have ruled Estonia have considered it an important topic. In times of economic crisis, too, when we made major cuts in the social sector, pensions were raised, not very much, but still. The pension increase has been every year. On 1 April next year, too, there will be an increase in old-age pensions, with the average old-age pension rising from 375 to 396 today. The rise is more than 5%, but it probably does not solve the problems of people who have to pay for care services, for example. According to the government's action plan, support will be paid to pensioners living alone from 2017. To this end, the country's budgetary strategy provides for EUR 10 million per year. We know that the pensioners who live alone are just under 100,000, 97,000 with something. This amount is ultimately not very high, but it is still one option. People who live alone could use this money to pay for a particular service, for example. So we have to admit that this is the situation we have. It's from our history, we're just as rich a country as we are. But we also have to admit that pensions have risen every year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U234	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U235	Thank you. Good minister! I'm sure you guys go out with people a lot, don't we all? Please tell me what you are responding to people about our pension accounts. Are you saying yes, you've been doing a very good job your whole life, you've been working for years, but your salary is so low that there's nothing to do, and now you're getting a little pension? Does the injustice of wages have to be reflected in pensions, or can there still be something to be done here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U236	Thank you, good questioner! As I said in my reply, it is a political decision. In 1999, people in this very hall decided that perhaps some of the people were others, some were the same ones who are still here to implement pension reform precisely under pressure from the public, people and society. The principle was that people who contribute more to pension contributions through their wages and social security contributions would have greater motivation and, in the future, a higher pension. However, if we look at the analysis, now pensions are relatively equal, such inequalities have not yet arisen. However, what we certainly need to discuss publicly, both in this Chamber and with the working group, is whether the current system in the long term will lead to unequal pensions, too unequal pensions that society cannot tolerate. This means that, since some people are paid lower wages and are paid lower social security contributions, the gap between pensions actually becomes very large in the long term. At the moment, however, we are talking mostly about equal pensions, with the exception of exceptions in the form of special pensions, as well as pensions for those people who, in special cases, have received 'additional' years of pension, either on entry or on behalf of children. That is today's situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U237	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U238	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is, of course, a political decision. In general, however, people in rural areas earn considerably less and often have to work part-time, which is why the pension is very small given the formula we use in old age. Have you thought about establishing a minimum retirement pension that would enable you to organise your life, especially for individual pensioners?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U239	Thank you. We all have these problems in common, we understand all these things. The question is how we can help current pensioners and how much resources we have for this. Are we going to bet even more on the state budget? This, too, is a political decision on which we are focusing our economic growth. The pension system is already paid from the state budget, precisely to pay out current pensions. This is our day. Rather, we need to look at how we can actually increase the pension for current pensioners, plus then provide for other measures to help them cope. I also pointed out the most difficult group of elderly people, who are alone pensioners. For them, the government coalition in its agreement for 2017 has provided for a pensioner living alone, which is not a big one, but which is a pension supplement.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U240	Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U241	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Indeed, pensions have been repeatedly raised in recent years, still by a small percentage comparable to inflation. So this has not led to any improvement in the situation of pensioners. The second prime minister in a row claims that Estonia is moving into the five most prosperous European countries, but unfortunately we see that we are among the five poorest nations. Is there, however, a clear and tangible change in the situation of our pensioners? It doesn't save 5% or 7% of them. Is there any major positive change to be expected?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U242	Thank you. Good Viktor! If there were to be one very big positive change, it would have to be a very large pension increase. But I'm the person who doesn't tell people stories that don't have cover. The Estonian state has tried to raise pensions every year, and this increase of more than 5%, which will come next year, is also worth something. This is tangible money, this EUR 88.9 million from the state budget. After all, you must all understand the possibilities of the state. Of course, it would be very popular to talk a different story here. If these steps, which are really small, but put together, get one more step. As I have already said, there will be EUR 10 million for pensioners living alone in 2017. What is important is that pensions already reached the level last year that some pensioners had to start paying income tax on their pensions. However, the income tax-free minimum for pensions will rise next year to a level such that the average pension will not be subject to income tax. These steps, small but important steps for pensioners, have been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U243	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U244	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking you if you think it's okay to keep the current, to put it mildly, a ridiculous situation where kindergarten teachers have to work nearly three years to earn one pension year. This means that the state deals with those who do the same work, teachers at school and teachers in kindergarten, in fact with double standards.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U245	Thank you. There is confusion here in the sense that we are not talking about the retirement year, where one year corresponds to one year when we look at the current pension system. We're talking about the share that comes to a person from the social tax paid on him. Inconsistency arises because these shares are different. If a person has been paid a higher social tax, this share is greater. One with the weighting is this insurance unit, as currently provided for in the law, for average wages, and this is the statistical average wage that very few people in Estonia receive. That's what caused the annoyance. If it had been the right knowledge and very uniform communication from the outset, if it had been otherwise regulated, that the coefficient of the insurance unit would come from, for example, the median wage or the minimum wage, these numbers would have been different and such confusion would not have arisen. In the whole system, one year of service is still one year of service.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U246	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U247	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I recently read that in Poland retirement was increased to 67 years. There's a new president who offers men 65 years and ladies 60 years. Next year, a new president will also come in Estonia, and the Minister of Social Protection, Margus Tsahkna, will invite us to take it down every couple of years. What would the Minister say to the President?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U248	Thank you, good questioner! I would say that Estonia is a parliamentary state.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U249	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U250	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. When we are talking about pensions, of course we are talking about adequacy, solidarity and sustainability. All these aspects have to be taken into account and there are quite a few factors affecting them. When we talk about pensions, the general view is that there should be no very large gaps between pensions. This opinion also came out of the report of the Estonian Cooperation Assembly when data was collected from various social partners. It was thought that this gap should be reasonable, from EUR 300 to five times the difference. It was also suggested that the more you pay, the more you receive your pension. Against this, it was said that a social tax ceiling could be introduced instead. My question is about the social tax ceiling: what do you think of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U251	Thank you. The subject of the social tax ceiling has been discussed. That's actually the social agreement we're going to do. One way really is to introduce a social tax ceiling, the point of which is not to allow excessive pensions to develop. With regard to economic development, I very much welcome the introduction of a social tax ceiling in the sense that our aim is to reduce labour taxes. But I do not think that the introduction of a social tax ceiling will solve this problem, that a very large number of people will receive a small pension. The question is, will there be any possibility of redistribution? All these options need to be analysed now. After all, in the long term, we can see what direction we're going to go in. In the short term, I consider it most important to resolve the problems of special pensions, as they have perhaps created unjustified gaps, which are also paid out of the state budget. This ceiling really is one way of not allowing some pensions to grow too far too quickly, but it does not solve the problem of how we can help those who receive a smaller pension faster from below.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U252	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U253	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, You have pointed out that this is a political decision as to why our people's pensions are currently so low. What is your message to today's pensioners who have worked their life and receive a pension of about 300 euros a month? In the winter months, utility payments and electricity bills are very high. If they pay them off and buy out their medicine, they often have 50 euros a month for food. Do you think that such a pension will allow one pensioner a living life?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U254	Thank you, good questioner! If this pensioner lives alone, it's gonna be really hard for him to deal with. Many survive, many fail, especially those who do not have a family to support them. To them, my message is that the government has provided for the support of a pensioner living alone. For this, we will have EUR 10 million in the budget from 2017. It's also a little relief. Secondly, if a person is in such a difficult situation that he or she will have 50 euros, he or she will be able to apply for income support. The good news over the long term is that next year the biggest increase in income support will come from EUR 90 to EUR 130 per person. This certainly does not honor our pension system, that is true. I will not convince you that people should be able to cope with the small pension we have, but we will pay the pension with the capacity that the Estonian state has.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U255	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U256	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! About ten years ago, we sent a good friend, Mati Talvik, to retire. His sentence was that the devil, now I'm retiring and now I'm starving. So nothing's changed in ten years. Can you tell me anything about this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U257	Thank you. I don't know what to say about Mati Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U258	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U259	Thank you, Mr President. Minister for Social Protection! I'm just asking for your personal judgment. What should be the minimum pension with which our honourable pensioners can live happily and this issue would be off the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U260	Thank you. Let's take a look at this picture a little bit wider. I know the honorable questioner is from the background of the economic man himself. If employers and employees are currently negotiating whether the minimum wage for a full-time employee is 410 euros, 430 euros or 450 euros per month, the good questioner will probably understand the background to the Estonian economy and financial opportunities. To say here what my personal desire is, what a pension could be, is, in my opinion, a little inappropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U261	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister! Will you confirm my hope that there will at least be no pensioners coming from the south who will bring us more burden?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U263	Thank you. There is no way I can confirm or disprove this opinion. If people of retirement age who have not worked in Estonia for one year and who do not have a working experience come here, the money they are going to receive is still very, very small. But whoever's coming here, we don't know that yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U264	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U265	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm not asking about the present, I'm asking about future pensioners. If you look at the current pension system, you have to admit, at least to me, that the pillar system does not work very well. No one joins the third pillar at all, the funds of the second pillar are ineffective or often generate losses, as is always written. What is your view, whether the existing system must continue or whether it needs to be reviewed and something more effective to come up with?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U266	Thank you, good questioner! When it comes to the content of this question, members of the Riigikogu should not want to change this system of social tax accounting, to reduce the proportion of social tax paid on a person, because the money paid on the salary of a member of the Riigikogu is certainly significantly higher than that paid on average. The pension system is a very long-term system with very high impact; no simple changes can be made here. I think, in principle, it is the pension pillar system that distributes the burden and makes our pension system more sustainable in the long term. Indeed, what is happening in voluntary funds, especially because of the sometimes unstable situation in the financial world, has also led the people of Estonia to distrust the third pillar of pensions against voluntary investments. But I can say that the funds for the third pillar have not decreased. It also depends, of course, on a conservative or active policy chosen by someone. It is true that the situation in the world is not very stable, but it is precisely the distribution between the various pillars that will enable our country to create a more sustainable pension system, so that you and I, too, will hopefully in the future at least have some pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U267	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I also want to ask you about the third pillar. Those who participate in it are around 100,000. This figure is rather low and statistics show that the number of third-pillar entrants is decreasing. The government has not discussed how to increase the third pillar, has it? Is there a need to change regulation, to inform people or to create some kind of incentives, so that interest is greater? The situation that has taken place cannot be satisfied, but the third pillar has a rather important role to play in this system.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U269	Thank you. The government working group also discussed how to motivate the employer to contribute to the pension system, for example through the third pillar and the employer's pension. It was discussed whether there was any way the country could come here to help. There are opportunities. Take, for example, the beneficiaries of a special pension. Perhaps it is possible to agree with the sector, for example, to guarantee them a slightly higher pension in the future through the employer's pension system, precisely the third pillar, if their years of employment are limited either because of the particularities or characteristics of their work. Anyway, there's a lot of work to do to figure that out. They are thinking about how to make participation in the third pillar of the pension system more active. At present, the situation really cannot be satisfied, but there are certain reasons for this. Stability in the financial markets, the financial crisis, and also the fact that, when people contribute, they take on their own risk of collecting, in the same way towards the growths, it has cast off enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U270	No further questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Marika Tuus-Laul, please, the speaker's speech! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U271	Ladies and gentlemen, It was quite interesting to hear that a new project team on pension was being set up again. I can say that for years in a row, as long as I have been here in the Riigikogu, all kinds of analyses have been carried out and teams have been set up, but nothing that favors the small-paid has been proposed. Praxis has repeatedly come up with very thorough studies and made many proposals, including on the same pension index, but nothing has changed. They'll listen, a couple of years will pass, and they'll do a thorough study again. We'll see what they want now. Of course, it's about politics. They said it was a political decision. And one might say that we have found a common language for this pension index only with the People's Union. There has been nothing in common with the Reform Party, neither the IRL nor the Social Democrats. When we bring this bill to the Chamber, there will always be a vote against. That's how it's been for years. In our view, it is really very unfair that the share of the insurance unit in determining old-age pensions is increasing from year to year. The next year, the greater the differences and the stratification of pensions. The pension now depends predominantly on how much you've been paid. The coalition has called it a human contribution, and the minister used this expression today. It's like the low - payers don't bet on anything or give themselves everything they have to do at work. We are not talking, of course, about equal pensions, we are not talking about it, but the system could be significantly fairer. I understand there's no money, but the money started to be scarce from the moment the first pillar started to take second pillar money. Then the pension fund went straight to the minus, if you remember. Indeed, we believe that such injustice should not be reflected in the pensions of low-paid teachers, teachers of music schools, carers, kindergarteners, anyone. You get a small salary for a lifetime, then you retire, and you have a lower pension. For example, a teacher who has worked for several decades will perhaps receive two and a half times less pensions than any IT specialist. That's not fair. By the way, this problem has been raised not only by us but also by the press. At the beginning of the year, the issue of unfair relations between wages and pensions was raised by Postimees, for example. And you see, if you're out of work, you're about to get a lower pension. When you go to work, you don't think the year or two you miss is gonna matter. And, as we know from the statistics, it is women in Europe who have the highest scissors between wages, and this is also reflected in women's pensions. However, our very clear position is that one year of work for people receiving minimum and up to average salaries should be equal to one pension year, or retirement point. There is no point in talking here about the year of retirement, no one is thinking about the year of retirement, as the Minister emphasised twice today that it is being misunderstood. There's no way you're gonna work for one point for three years. I mean, a person should live 150 years. It is absurd even to give such examples. We believe that, as a primary measure, the basic pension should be increased considerably more than the wage-dependent part. Between 2005 and 2007, when the Centre Party was in government, we significantly increased pensions and did so in a way that raised the 'base' part. This increased more in the case of smaller pensions. This is the way to do it now. We know that Estonian pensions are among the smallest in Europe. The minimum pension gap for other countries is up to 900%. It's a huge difference! We support Greece here, although we know very well how many times the pensions are higher there. The Minister also spoke about the annual increase in pensions according to the index. According to the index, the pension was increased only last year before the elections. In all years before that, the pension was increased less than the index anticipated. One year, the pensions were completely frozen. We remember how double pension was promised before the elections. And if we also take into account the price increases that have been in the intervening years, official statistics show that real pensions have actually fallen. So this is not an example here. In answer, regarding nursing homes, the minister said that a person himself could not contribute so much from his pension and someone had to support him. The Minister gave an example of an increase of 10 million since 2017 and it seems to improve the situation. Well, if we divide this sum by the number of 10 million single-living pensioners, we can see that one pensioner gets nine euros a month. Does that help him to take a home? Such poor answers do not satisfy us at all. That is why we are coming up with this issue more and more here, so that we can really find out how things are, and we can also work together to think about how to raise the pension for low-wage earners. Right now, there's a huge injustice here. Anyone in this hall who's been walking around the country can say that's the first thing they ask about at the meetings. But we have not been able to change it for years because this is a political decision, a right-wing political decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U272	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U273	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to make a few points, and it seems to be another one. It can really be accepted that pensions are small in Estonia and are growing at a much slower rate than inflation and prices. Now, when people say that inflation is practically close to zero and even with a negative sign, deflation, it mostly comes from a fall in fuel prices. However, domestic heating and excise duties are still increasing, prices are rising for consumers, and it will certainly be extremely difficult for a single pensioner to come out with his money. However, I want to talk about another aspect, to express a few thoughts on another aspect. I want to talk about the pension funds that all banks and big organisations are offering right now. The fact that pension funds are not effective has been said for a long time, especially when markets fell. Now that Europe's overall economic growth has also stalled, pension funds are not growing rapidly. They're trying to keep it quiet, but the picture is drastic. I think it might be worth saying the idea that has repeatedly sounded in this Chamber: the obligation to invest in the Estonian economy must be imposed on pension funds. Pension funds are quite powerful and large organisations that invest money around the world, and it is a common practice in the world that some pension funds are required to invest in their own economies. We do not have such a requirement, it is said that we do not have the instruments or organisations that are capable of doing so. I am saying that there are no instruments because we do not have such a requirement and the state is not interested in bringing extra money and new investments into the economy. If the state were to set an example through its companies, through Eesti Energia, the port and other large companies and would help create instruments aimed at issuing securities or issuing bonds, then the state sector would come and do the same thing. There would be a bond institution that is completely missing in Estonia, and then pension funds would also have the opportunity to invest in our economy and keep the money of Estonian people in Estonia. It was my small and modest idea, which I wanted to express to you. I wish everyone good luck and thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U274	Thank you. There's no more calls. Is there something the Minister would like to say? No, I don't. I will stop dealing with this issue and regret that I could not take the floor myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U275	The next question is from the members of the Riigikogu Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Lauri Laas, Olga Ivanova, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Mikhail Korb, Mailis Reps, Kadri Samson and Märt Sults. Kersti Sarapuu, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U276	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Social Protection! We presented you on June 10th with an inquiry into the termination of the Weeping Point. This programme was revolutionary, making people with special needs visible for the first time. This year's Puutepunkt celebrated its tenth anniversary, having performed 300 programmes throughout the period of operation, which raised acute problems in the Estonian social system and society as a whole. The programme team did a commendable job, which resulted in a very serious analytical material on white spots and black holes in our social policy and welfare. These stories, as well as the picture on the street, show how the program has made people's attitudes to people with special needs more tolerant. 'Bite Point' hasn't been just a show. Various solutions have been tried, sought and implemented, round tables and meetings between administrations have been held, and schemes have been developed to help in one situation or another. For three years now, the Puute Point has its own monthly magazine with a print of 10,000. Today it was in the mailbox of all of us. The 'Bush Point' came with the proper euro money of Estonian Television. The Estonian Television found that this was an important and necessary topic and contributed to it until the euro money ran out. ERR initially took over the funding of the series for the autumn 2013 season, followed by a production contract for the whole of 2014. Due to the lack of money, the programme was only able to continue until mid-May 2015. Gambling tax Council support disappeared. The ERR support for the programme for 10 years for people with special needs has run out. Although the editor of ERR's life programmes, Ulvi Pihel, said that the end of the grant was not an assessment of the quality of the programme, it was entirely on the level, and during the last half of the year the programme was particularly renewed, ERR had to make choices and continued the programme was not possible. According to Tiina Kangro, the tragedy is that very large and ground-breaking social reforms are starting, such as employment reform, reform of carers and reform of families of children with disabilities. It is therefore very silly to fall off such an important and powerful information channel that brings together helpers, politicians and people with disabilities. As I pointed out earlier, 'Bite Point' wasn't just a show. I repeat, this programme was used to try, search and implement various solutions. Through this programme, perhaps it would have been possible to solve a situation where many disabled people and their carers were hit hard last week to know that some of the life support needed must now be bought at full cost. It is said that, despite local government visits, the Minister has not given any guidance on how to provide prosthetic, orthopaedic and other facilities until the end of the year. Municipalities must be able to provide people and service providers with the necessary information. The purchase of aids is financed by the state, the local government is merely an intermediary, but people turn to the municipalities first with their concerns. It is the expectation of the municipalities that the state, for its part, will inform the public through the public media about the situation that has arisen and what will happen next. Therefore, the existence of a programme is particularly necessary. Enn Leinuste, the director of Invaru, Estonia's largest invalid lending and sales company, notes that if the state has introduced an advantage, it should also grant this advantage. People are entitled by law but have not been given the opportunity to exercise this right. The situation that has now arisen is the same as if the Social Insurance Board, at the end of the year, said that it could not pay a full pension, paid half to some, and paid some nothing. I am very pleased that Mr Stalnukhin said here in the spring that our Minister for Social Protection fulfilled a very beautiful task and ended up solving a major problem in Narva. I hope he considers it real to continue this same show, and I believe he will find a solution here too. That is why we have asked him three questions, to which we are asking for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U277	The Minister for Social Protection, Margus Tsahkna, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U278	Dear Chairman, Good questioners! The questions asked are actually four, and the answers have been sent to you. I'm not going to read them literally here, I hope that's understandable. The main focus is on the question of continuing the Puute Point TV show. I want to talk about that answer now. I, too, have had to deal quite repeatedly with the fact that such an important programme as the 'Pute Point' for people with special needs, which is also important to Estonian society in order to inform people with special needs, can be broadcast every year. I must admit that I do not remember whether there have been a few years if this topic had not been active. Having been a member of the Riigikogu and also the chairman and vice-chairman of the Social Affairs Committee in the previous composition, I remember that we dealt with this issue at least a few times each year, especially when the state budget was under discussion. The Minister of the Government of the Republic must not interfere with the design of the ERR programme because national broadcasting is by law an independent and independent organisation, but I also see at least one former member of the Council of the ERR in this Chamber and I know that the same issues have also been raised repeatedly in this Council. I am of the opinion that Estonian Public Broadcasting should be able to cover the cost of producing and distributing programmes for people with special needs from its own resources each year. It is not a question of what kind of show it is, whether it is a 'Bush Point' or something else that I certainly cannot say. But we know that the Puute Point is highly appreciated as a TV show, it is one of the main sources of information for people with special needs. In my opinion, he has also changed the opinion of society, including politicians, on the needs and problems of people with special needs. It has begun to be understood that this area is not only one major emergency valley, but that people with special needs are a normal, normal part of our society. They live with us, and they're supposed to live with us. Therefore, I take it for granted that the Estonian Public Broadcasting, which receives its funds from the Estonian state budget, is nothing more than money collected from taxpayers, would finance this programme from its own budget. I hope that this will happen next year. The budget for Estonian National Broadcasting will increase next year by 6.6%, i.e. from 28 million to 30 million, according to the state budget approved by the government. We have heard every year that there is a need for extra money for sports transfers, and I am sure that, during the debate on the state budget, at least I have seen it here for 12 years, there will be additional requests, which will be partially met. I think that the production and distribution of the 'Bite Point' programme is considerably cheaper than the execution of a number of large projects, but it is extremely important to certain people, perhaps even the only information channel. So I stress once again that I, as a minister, cannot make any precepts about the Estonian National Broadcasting Programme, but as Minister of Social Protection and a citizen of the Republic of Estonia, I can see that until now, as far as I know, almost the only programme dedicated precisely to these problems must be continued. For my part, I will do as much as I can to contribute to these negotiations and to enable the programme to continue. So far, the history of the programme has been such that the money needed has been given to the Estonian National Broadcasting by piece and the ERR has also done it with its own resources. I do not want to prosecute the ERR here, but I just think that this group of society, like many others who have been programmed, should have the certainty that the programme for them, the introduction of these topics, the programme for communicating these topics, is guaranteed. I am not going to read to you here the amounts that have been allocated over the years from European funds and other projects that have been allocated by the Gambling Tax Council, etc. You have these answers, they have been sent to you in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U279	Dear Minister, Now, the story is, according to the inquisitors, they haven't seen your written answer. I think with this reading, the Minister's answer might go beyond normal. We will now continue with the questions, but the President of the Riigikogu will give the heirs a good advice on a question about what the Minister wrote to them. Then he can answer nicely. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U280	Yes, we have not received these written answers. But I wanted to ask whether it is possible to find funding from the Structural Funds, from the measures that are now opening up, in order to contribute precisely to this programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U281	Thank you. Now I don't know if I'm going to read the answers to all the questions. I think that we can use, as has already been used repeatedly, alternative options to use the money of the European Social Fund, the money of the Gambling Tax Council project, or to foresee any additional financial allocations to make it possible to do this. And not just the show, because we all know that the show and the Touch Point magazine actually form a whole. No specific funding has been requested for this year from the state budget. The point of my previous reply was that maybe we could somehow make sure that this programme was at least on the list of traditional Estonian National Broadcasting programmes, because then it would be financed from the budget of Estonian National Broadcasting. As Minister for Social Protection, I give my word: I will help this information channel to continue. I've had many conversations with the head producer or the chief executive on this subject. The option is also to change the format of this distribution channel altogether. Today, there is a great deal of internet, internet television, etc. The debate is ongoing. We need to provide information sources for people with special needs so that they can know what the country is planning, what is going on in society, and the other way around, society must know what problems they are worried about.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U282	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U283	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In my opinion, the format of the inquiry is that if the heirs have asked questions, they will be answered here. Believe me, there's a lot of other people sitting in this hall besides the inquisitors, who would also like to know about the same "Bush Point" show. If the answer is in writing, it will appear that there is no need to answer at all in the Chamber. In addition, there is an entire lobby waiting for these answers. The 'Biute Point' programme is extremely important and very well justified, I think that there is no one in this Chamber who would doubt it. I agree very much with you, and I talked to Margus Allikmaa in May about the fact that sports friends are often delighted with the broadcasts of some kind of competition. In Estonian society, there are older people, there are young people, they are of working age and everyone, including people with special needs, must have their own niche and show. Mr Allikmaa's message was that this programme would not end, but that it would be sought out as many others would continue. Is that true?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U284	Good questioner! I'm actually here for the first time ever to answer a question. My very first attempt to answer was lost because the inquisitor took back the question. I will then read the questions and the written answers so that everyone will know what was asked and what was answered. But everything I said last time is still going on. The first question: Is and how is it going to support the ERR in continuing an important programme aimed at the most vulnerable target group and where people have found both moral and practical support? ' We have to say that this year, the state budget has not planned money for the 'Pute Point' programme, but we point out that there are many potential sources of funding. Opportunities should be explored to apply for support during the 2014-2020 period through open application rounds of structural support, for which information can be found on the website of the implementing entities, such as the SA Innove website, and the benefits from gambling tax received in the form of large or small projects. For example, it is possible to apply for funding from a call for proposals for a major project of the Gambling Tax Council, which will start soon, but it must be noted here that this is a one-year funding, continuity is not guaranteed. The Ministry of Social Affairs does not generally support the production of films and other media products on the basis of the principles of evaluating project applications, but in this case it is still one option. In addition to the above options, in 2016 the Ministry of Social Affairs plans to announce a procurement on reform through audiovisual media in the context of the communication of labour capacity reform. At the same time, I would stress that this solution must take into account that procurement is also open to other bidders and that the solution will not be until the autumn 2016 season. So that doesn't solve the problem we have right now. It should also be taken into account that the focus of this communication is on activities and issues related to the reform of working capacity. We note that the issue of sustainability and consistent funding must be resolved in cooperation with the Estonian Ministry of National Broadcasting and Culture, as the Ministry of Culture is responsible for shaping national broadcasting policy. That is the answer to the first question. The second question: 'The funding of representative organisations of many people with disabilities, patients and other social interest groups has decreased considerably this year. This is partly linked to the so-called "intermediary year" of UCITS financing. In the context of the reforms to be launched and legislative changes, the involvement of different stakeholders is very important. However, the lack of money makes their work difficult. How, from what resources and to what extent do you intend to finance these organisations in the coming years from the state budget and European Union funds? ' The argument that the funding of representative organisations for people with special needs has decreased significantly this year and that they do not receive grants for their activities is not correct. Namely, through the Estonian Disabled People's Foundation, the Gambling Tax Council has allocated 1 million euros to support the activities of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People's Organizations by 2015. In comparison, this amount amounted to EUR 700000 in 2013 and EUR 900000 in 2014. The purpose of the Facility is to support a network of organisations of persons with disabilities so that they can contribute fully to the implementation of the principles of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the general concept of disability policy approved by the Government of the Republic and to the role assigned to organisations of persons with disabilities. The above-mentioned operating grant money has been distributed between the county offices of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People and the representative organisations of people with special needs, such as the Estonian Federation of Kurtides, the Estonian Association of People with Disability and other organisations. In 2016, the state budget finances representative organisations of persons with disabilities in the form of an ad hoc operating grant of EUR 295424 (Estonian Paralympic Committee, EO Estonian Association). It is planned that EUR 3 million will be received from the state budget for the operating and project support of the Gambling Tax Board, namely EUR 2999517. This is the estimated amount that may decrease or increase according to receipts. The funds are awarded by competition, can be applied for by organisations related to family, medicine and care, as well as to the elderly and people with disabilities. Based on the statistics for the years 2014 to 2015, 40% of the planned funding will be expected in 2016 for organisations related to persons with disabilities, i.e. 40% of the 3 million planned for the sector. The European Union funds are not intended to provide direct funding for umbrella organisations for people with disabilities, but measures are planned in the social field, targeting people with disabilities and people with a care load. In particular, the focus is on developing childcare and care services for disabled children to reduce the burden of care, social services to support labour market participation, development of care infrastructure, adaptation of the environment to the needs of disabled people, establishment and introduction of a work capacity support scheme. All of this is aimed at people with maintenance loads as well as people with loss of work capacity and disabilities. The third question: "The relatives who care for their loved ones are 24 hours a day at work for the family and the country. What measures will you take to adequately value them? " The coalition government has put the issue of informal care as one of the priorities of its action plan, which is to launch a debate on the organisation of care and maintenance obligations for family members with a need for care. At the end of this year, a task force to reduce the maintenance load will be set up at the State Chancellery to analyse maintenance load issues and propose a comprehensive approach to this issue. The aim is to address prevention, mitigation and financing issues. The expected outcome of the Task Force's activities is real policy recommendations and solutions. Firstly, a well-functioning, sustainable and needs-driven system of care services, including care, health, labour market and other services, needs to be ensured. Services are provided where they are needed and the need for services is forecast consistently. High-quality and accessible services allow inactive people, due to the burden of care, to re-enter the labour market and prevent drop-out from the labour market. Care and labour market services are provided to people with partial care burdens. Secondly, to support the transition of long-term carers to the labour market. Thirdly, to provide sufficient social guarantees for people with care burdens. Fourthly, design or change maintenance load attitudes. The Task Force will work until the end of 2017, and during this period measures will be available to enable carers to start receiving more additional assistance and services in the future to alleviate the maintenance burden. Question 4: "What solutions can you see to help families with children with disabilities? " From the fourth quarter of 2015 to help families with children with disabilities, more support will be provided through the European Social Fund (ESF) funds for three services, care for the child, support for the person and transport service, thereby reducing the cost of care for the parents and the obstacles to employment. The Social Insurance Institution has announced a procurement deadline of 28 September to find service providers. The services are intended for children with severe and deep disabilities up to and including 17 years of age. More information about the measures is available on the website of the Social Insurance Board. In order to make the necessary support more accessible to disabled children and their families, the Ministry of Social Affairs is preparing a basic analysis of the services and benefits of disabled children. The analysis highlights the shortcomings of the current system of services and grants and the vision of how the system should operate in the future. The basic analysis will be completed in two parts. By December 2015, a support scheme will be drawn up for parents of children with deep disabilities, which will be implemented in January 2017. In June 2016, a full basic analysis will be carried out, for example on the identification of trees, rehabilitation systems, cooperation in different areas, etc. In addition, the care burden on the parents of disabled children will be addressed by the task force set up at the State Chancellery in November 2015. These were the written answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U285	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U286	Thank you. I'm still asking about ETV. We know that if the Minister or any other senior official calls the head of the ERR and says that please reflect this issue or scandal exactly that way and do not reflect it, it is completely unacceptable. Yet, this happens very often. At the same time, I think no one would mind if the Minister for Social Protection asked why the programme concerning the weakest and most vulnerable layers of our society was canceled. Are you gonna ask me that and tell us, did you bring it up?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U287	This issue has been dealt with and I have been in contact with the Estonian Public Broadcasting Managers. And that is precisely for the purpose of finding a solution together. That is the solution that needs to be found together. With regard to the first part of your question, I am not well aware of the question of whether telephone rights are used very often. In this case, we certainly do not intend to use telephone rights, but we want to discuss this issue together, as normal practice is. I have my own position on this issue. If the solution is not found the way I want it, then it must be found in such a way that the necessary information can still reach people with special needs. That is the real purpose. And so it's not an annual theme, so the sharing of information is systematic. We do not want to discuss this issue again and again in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U288	No further questions. Thank you to the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Priit Toobal on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U289	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, I was unable to sign this inquiry, so I speak on my behalf, not on behalf of the heirs. All those who signed the inquiry, as well as the Central Party Group as a whole, have discussed this issue at their meetings. I completely agree with my colleague, Mr Hunt, who said that there is probably no political force in this House who would think that this show should not be on the air. In this way, the Centre Party Group also believes that the 'Bush Point' programme should return to the national broadcasting platform. I found the Minister's recommendation somewhat incomprehensible. When he commented on the subject to us in a free manner, he suggested that broadcasting should find money from its own resources to get the show back on the air. In his replies to the inquiry, he advised the third sector to turn to various funds in order to restore the programme in the national broadcasting programme. I, too, would rather think that these amounts should be found in the national broadcasting budget. In the near future, the Broadcasting Council will meet, and I believe that all the representatives of the six groups that are part of it will support this proposal. I also hope that the Chairman of the IRL will talk to his party representative on the Broadcasting Council. I promise that we will raise the issue and support this option that national broadcasting will find the money to restart the show. Either as a radio broadcast or as a TV show, it's a question of its own, but the subject must be back on broadcast. With regard to the additional funding allocated to national broadcasting, which, according to the Minister, is as if it can do the same, this is not quite the case. These additional EUR 1.8 million foreseen in the draft budget for the ERR are a clear sign: this money is just open to the ETV+ channel. When this channel was opened, the representatives of the Board of Directors of the Broadcasting Council consulted the Government Office and it was agreed that the three options proposed by the Council were chosen for the ETV+ budget, which would cost a total of EUR 4.3 million per year. This year, i.e. for a few months, is set at 2.5 million and next year 1.8 million additional. That's 4.3 million a year for the Russian channel. This is not the money that the Broadcasting Council could decide on whether to make a 'Bush Point' or something else. So it's not exactly competent what the minister said on this remote. One more thing about the Minister's statement. The communication tools of the employment capacity reform were discussed, as was the announcement of a competition with a view to discussing the work capacity reform on different television channels. I understand that procurements must be announced for the use of certain funds, and, as the Minister said, in this case too, a call for tenders will be launched where many television channels can take part, be they national broadcasting or private channels. I don't think this is the right thing to do, because the country has its own TV channels. Why give public money to a private channel? The State should use the channels it has, and the programmes that the State wants to show, even in connection with this same capacity reform, should be purchased from national broadcasting rather than public procurement. You can win a private channel, and then public money goes to a private channel. I don't think it would make sense to use public money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U290	Is there anything the Minister would like to add? Minister of Social Security Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U291	Dear Chairman, I want to add that we have to remember what we are talking about. We are talking about having a very large group of members of society who are exposed to the problems of people with special needs. According to the calculations, they account for 10%, but in fact much more than the people with special needs, they also include their family members and other carers. The state must provide all of them with a communication channel on television, radio, on-line, on paper. As long as these people are systematically provided with information on how they can organise their lives, and vice versa: their stories must come to the public in order to change the attitude of society and, as a result, to shape policies. The second question is exactly how it has to be. We have a concrete example in the form of 'Bite Point', which has justified itself very clearly. The message that must remain is that the Estonian National Broadcasting must ensure that all Estonian residents receive the information they need. Everything else is like an addition. That's the point of national broadcasting. We have commercial channels, too, and there's a lot of them. Speaking of using the money in my response, I touched on possible sources of additional funding. Examples include the European Social Fund (ESF) instruments, as well as the amounts that we can use to inform about the work capacity reform. Here, however, there are certain conditions for how to do this, and usually this can be done through open procurement. It just needs to be known. But I would like to sum up my short closing statement in such a way that it would be good if I did not have to go in front of this hall very often in connection with this subject. This topic should be an elementary part of our country's communication policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U292	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U293	The following question is submitted by Dmitri Dmitriev, Mikhail Korb, Siret Kotka, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Must, Jaanus Karilaid, Erki Savisaar, Martin Repinski, Olga Ivanova, Tarmo Tamm, Enn Esmaa, Andrei Novikov, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Kersti Sarapuu, Märt Sults and Marika Tuus-Laul. Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U294	Honourable Chairman! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In May this year, 18 representatives from the Central Party Group submitted an inquiry to the Minister for Health and Labour. The subject was the sickness benefit system. Undoubtedly, the health of people is one of the factors that, given Estonia's demographic situation, must certainly receive greater attention at different levels. Health determines both the quality of life and the ability to work, and ultimately, public health has a direct impact on the Estonian economy as a whole. According to the Estonian sickness benefit system, the first three days of stay on the sick leave are currently unpaid, which motivates people to work sick for purely economic reasons. This system of sickness benefits is unsustainable in terms of human health. On the same subject, a petition has also been issued by trade unions, who also claim that if neither the employer nor the health insurance fund compensates workers for the first three days of sickness, this will create a hole in people's incomes that many cannot afford. In this regard, we have written down three questions. Here I am giving the Minister the opportunity to read them and at the same time to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U295	Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U296	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs and other members of the Riigikogu! It is late, but nevertheless, I will answer all the questions you have asked, trying to do so as quickly and concretely as possible. The first question: "What is the government planning to do in a situation where people work sick because they do not pay sickness benefits on the first three days of illness? How do you plan to solve this problem in four years? " You can't go to work when you answer sick. According to the law, the employer is obliged to ensure a safe and healthy working environment for his employees, which means that workers suffering from an infectious disease cannot be allowed to come to work. Secondly, when we talk specifically about compensation for sick days, I will give you a brief overview of the situation in other countries. A few examples. Countries where employees have less than two days' ownership are, for example, Germany, Latvia, the Netherlands, Finland, Denmark and Sweden. There are several countries with exactly the same system in Estonia, i.e. three days of ownership, such as Great Britain, Austria, the Czech Republic, France, Italy and Spain. There are also countries where the employee's ownership is much longer than three days, for example in Iceland it is 14 days, in Ireland six days. So countries have made different choices. The current sickness benefit scheme entered into force on 1 July 2009 when the forecast of social security contributions had deteriorated. The amendment extended the participation of the insured person and the official from one day to three days, while the costs of the fourth to eighth day of sickness were borne by the employers, and the costs had to be borne by the health insurance fund. The Estonian Trade Union Confederation has submitted a petition to the Riigikogu with a proposal to initiate an amendment to the Health Insurance Act, which provides for the payment of sickness benefit from the first day of incapacity for work. I am not fundamentally opposed to this proposal, but it is about money. The Estonian Health Insurance Fund has estimated the impact of this change on the health insurance budget at around 30 million euros per year. If the amounts paid for sickness benefits were to increase without the additional money being paid to the sickness insurance budget, we would simply redistribute the amount in the sickness insurance fund in a different way. This would mean that, due to limited resources, the sickness fund's provision for prevention, treatment, medicine and medical equipment would be reduced. I'm sure the queues would be extended. Now possible solutions. One solution is much more widespread in other countries, allowed in Estonia in terms of law and also used in practice. This is an agreement on different terms and conditions in a collective agreement that are more favourable to the employee. Examples of collective agreements concluded in Estonia are that employers have reduced employees' own participation. For example, the employer pays workers 50% of the salary for the first three days of sickness. There are examples that 70% is paid for the second and third sick days, and there are also examples that the employer allows employees "three health days" each year, paying for them as well. Another possible alternative is to look for additional resources for health insurance. As I said, simply amending the law and revising the sickness benefit system with current resources is not enough. The longer-term trend must be taken into account that the financial situation of the health insurance fund is changing in a rather negative direction and that they have concerns anyway as to how to expand the income base of health insurance. If today's financial situation makes the payment of sickness benefits more favourable to workers, this will result in either longer waiting lists or lower compensation rates, which is currently 70%. But that's what I'm going to talk about by answering another question. What the government is planning to propose as a solution is what we are currently analysing. Point 8.7 of the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic states: "We will also allow companies to donate tax-free to the development of free-of-charge public sports infrastructure and do not consider the employer's contribution to improving the health of workers and avoiding sick days as a special advantage. " Thus, together with the Ministry of Finance, we analyse whether the employee's first to third day's sick pay should not be exempted from social tax. If the employer pays for the fourth to eighth days now, he will not pay social tax on this money, but he will pay for the first three days. One possible solution, if the state wants to support more favourable agreements with the employer, either collectively or individually, I am thinking of the first three days of sickness here, would be a benefit in the form of social tax. That's what the Ministry of Social Affairs is analyzing right now. The second question: 'At present, the sickness benefit rate is 70% of the salary. Does the government intend to increase the rate of sickness benefit as a percentage of the salary? ' Honest answer: no plan. Like I said, it's about money. If we want to increase the state's contribution, both by increasing the number of days to be reimbursed and at the same time increasing the level of compensation, it would be a multiplication of this item of expenditure. With today's resources, this would lead to an increase in the order of treatment, which I am not in favour of. This can be discussed again when proposals for longer-term funding of health insurance and broadening the income base reach real decisions. According to point 10.46 of the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic, the Ministry of Social Affairs is currently carrying out a sustainability analysis of the financing of health care and will submit proposals to the Government of the Republic in March 2016. Question three: '2011. In 2001, the Socialist Group issued a draft stating that self-employed persons are being treated unfairly. It was pointed out that at the moment the sickness fund pays compensation from the 9th day of sickness, 4 to 8th day of sickness. Until the day of sickness, the employer does this, but for the self-employed, no one does it at 4.8. No compensation is paid until the day, as these as independent entrepreneurs do not have an employer. The draft allows self-employed persons to deduct from business income the amount calculated on the basis of the personalised social tax of the previous year in order to compensate for the loss of business income due to the disease. What progress has been made in implementing this idea? How are self-employed people guaranteed security in case of illness? ' Social Democrats continue to believe that the compensation arrangements for sick days for self-employed persons should be improved and this bottleneck should be resolved. At the same time, we recognise that the legal status of an employee and self-employed person is different within the meaning of the Employment Contracts Act, also in terms of health insurance. The draft initiated by the Social Democrats certainly requires further legal analysis on what basis and in what amounts these sick days could be compensated, while avoiding any misuse of the whole system. In addition, the problem must be considered that, in a situation similar to that of self-employed persons, many other persons who do not work under a contract of employment, such as notaries. Therefore, the whole regulation should be further analysed and harmonised. For example, a citizen's complaint awaits a decision in the Tartu Circuit Court. The complainant considers that the procedure for the payment of sickness benefits to self-employed persons is incompatible with the Constitution. The Ministry of Social Affairs has not found any contradiction with the Constitution, and now this complaint is being dealt with by the Court of Second Instance and it is reasonable to await the Court's position before taking further decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U297	Questions for the Minister. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U298	Thank you. You said that the reimbursement of the first sick days would cost the sickness fund a great deal. Have you calculated the cost to the health insurance fund of treating people who work sick and whose later treatment is much more expensive? It is known that the treatment of chronic diseases is expensive. In the second half of the question, I recall that when this decision was taken in 2009, it was promised that it would be a temporary solution. At the time, the amount of compensation was also reduced and the same parties were in power: IRL, Socied and Reform Party. Why were people cheated after all? Right now, you're telling me you're not going to restore the old order. But people are waiting for it because it was promised. And anyway, why do you pay the medical bills for the medical bills? Have you discussed this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U299	I don't know how to take a stand about what someone once promised. I know that the government has indeed spoken about temporary solutions in several parts of the Employment Contracts Act in the past, but later these temporary solutions have become eternal solutions. Well, if not forever, at least for a long time. I don't think that's right, but I don't have to take responsibility for other people's promises. As far as the issue is concerned more generally, we may agree that people who are sick should not be allowed to work. And, of course, it's cheaper to prevent diseases or treat them at an early stage. The treatment will become more expensive if you allow the disease to get worse and then start dealing with the consequences of the sickness fund's money. It's perfectly clear. Therefore, as I said, I am not fundamentally opposed to the whole system becoming more favourable to the patient. At the same time, the question arises as to which other areas financed by the Health Insurance Fund it comes from: whether it comes from the financing of family doctors' services, from the benefits of medicines or at the cost of increasing treatment queues. This is our situation, unfortunately. It is estimated that the amount of health insurance coming from the social tax, which basically represents the income side of the Health Insurance Fund's budget, will increase by up to 6% in the coming years until 2026. However, if we look at our demographic trends and current medical prices, it is clear that, in the long term, the Health Insurance Fund is already going to fall into a huge disadvantage by applying the current sickness pay scheme. Next year, the Health Insurance Fund will be less than EUR 9 million. In this sense, it is clear that, even today's compensation rates, we actually need to expand the revenue base in the longer term if we are to ensure the sustainability of the financing of the health system. If we impose additional obligations on the health insurance fund, we will increase the scissors further. For my part, I proposed a constructive solution so that, in some way, compensation for the first days of sickness could be agreed between employers and employees either on the basis of collective agreements or on an individual basis. The State could, for its part, allow for a benefit in favour of a special preferential tax, i.e. a benefit in respect of the part of the social tax. It is not just the responsibility of the state to take care of human health; it should also be equally important for representatives of the workforce and employers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U300	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U301	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I think I can answer your rhetorical question. You asked me where to get the money, what kind of services. Here's what I propose. Next year's social tax will decrease by half a percentage point, which represents a total of 35 million. Very simple: the social tax reduction should be discontinued and the money will be paid to compensate for the first days of sickness. How do you feel about what would be more popular among the people of Estonia, reducing social tax by half a percentage, or compensating for the first five sick days?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U302	The first three, not the first five. The reduction of social security contributions, as agreed, does not adversely affect the income side of the sickness fund. This amount is compensated by the State's other revenue. So, actually, we're still in the same situation. The discussion as to whether or not a half-per cent reduction in social security contributions is appropriate will certainly go beyond the question of the question of the sickness benefit system.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U303	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U304	Thank you. Mr Minister, first of all, thank you for your substantive answers. As you said, we live in limited resources and, in fact, the healthcare system should be guided by additional resources. At the same time, the current government is trying to gradually reduce social tax, which actually does not give businesses much. For example, the former chairman of the Viru Chemistry Group, who operates in Ida-Viru County, says directly that many people with low wages simply do not take out sick days. So that's the problem. Well, that's a question of political choices, isn't it? Is the current government planning, even on the basis of a trade union petition, to review the existing system, or are we moving firmly forward in the same direction as we have done so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U305	I mentioned two steps or actions by the government in my answers. The first one concerns sick days. At the moment, we are negotiating with the Government's Ministry of Finance a proposal that the state could exempt the employer from the social contribution of the benefit paid from the first to the third day of sickness, from the special benefit tax. This would be a state motivation for employers and employees to agree on these issues. In the countries mentioned earlier, in particular the Nordic countries, it is precisely a collective agreement that resolves this issue in almost all cases. This tradition is not yet established in Estonia. I think that would make sense. Not all problems should always come to government immediately, some things can also be solved through social partnership, so the government takes half a step and others take half a step. As a second venture, the government has convened a working group on long-term sustainability of health insurance, which will meet next month and present its proposals to the government in March 2016. The group will be composed of representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Health Insurance Fund, the Institute for Health Development and the Ministry of Finance. The main topics that the working group currently plans to address are the following: Firstly, the possibility of extending the income base of health insurance, such as contributions for pensioners and/or children. Secondly, opportunities for applying new taxes: taxation of energy drinks, sugar tax, etc. Thirdly, the burden of ownership in health insurance and health care in general and its impact on different patient groups, fourthly, the possibilities of financing non-insured care, fifthly, the impact of removing incapacity benefits from health insurance payments, was also a question of this, and the sixth was the impact of cost increases and the possibility of curbing this growth. The seventh issue is the joint analysis of health and social services, which captures overlapping services and future needs. So in these two areas of work, we are moving forward. As regards the longer term financing of health insurance and the income base, these proposals will bring us to the government in March 2016 and we will certainly introduce them to the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. And hopefully sooner, by the end of this year, we will get to the point of this second proposal so that we are ready to decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U306	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U307	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. A letter from a young woman preparing to be a mother came into our melboxes. His greatest concern was that his colleagues working with him were sick and that they would also harm his health. How can an entrepreneur be affected to send sick people home to heal themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U308	I refer to the law: according to § 28 (2) (6) of the Employment Contracts Act, the employer is obliged to ensure working conditions that meet the requirements of health and safety at work. When we are talking about the risk of communicable diseases, it is appropriate to refer to subsection 8 (1) of the Health and Safety at Work Act, under which bacteria and viruses are biological hazards, and according to the same paragraph 2, the employer must take measures to protect against biological hazards at the workplace, taking into account the infectivity of the hazard. Thus, according to the law, the employer is obliged to resolve such situations and, of course, every employee has the right to require the employer to comply with the law. If safety and health requirements are violated, it is, of course, also possible to appeal to the relevant institutions which may initiate infringement proceedings against the employer. But I think it's probably possible to agree with the employer most of the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U309	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U310	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I hope that the list that you read out was not final, the Ministry of Finance, the Health Insurance Fund, the National Institute for Health Development and certainly the Ministry of Social Affairs. I very much hope that it will include the representative organisation of patients and representatives of employers and employees. And if they don't, I suggest they be involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U311	Third sector organisations, of course, and those directly concerned by specific issues, are also involved in the discussion of long-term social partners agreements. But in addition, in response to the previous question, I did not say one thing. The specific question was where to turn to influence the employer. According to § 14 (5) (7) of the Health and Safety at Work Act, an employee has the right to contact the occupational health officer, the members of the occupational health council, the employees' trustee and, ultimately, the workplace worker's post-employment inspector, if he considers that the measures and tools provided by the employer do not guarantee the safety of the working environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U312	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U313	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The Estonian Health Insurance Fund calculated that the payment of temporary incapacity benefit from the first day would cost 30 million euros. It is quite obvious that when people heal themselves, do not work sick, money is saved. You said so yourself. Has the Health Insurance Fund made calculations that if we brought the compensation for sick days forward, how much money would we save? And if this calculation hasn't been made, could they do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U314	I believe that this issue has been analysed. I cannot give you any concrete facts about this, and I am afraid that it is very, very difficult to quantify this forecast on the basis of real evidence and with any certainty. The impact of prevention on money is difficult at all. These effects are longer-term and there are always a lot of assumptions in the game, which are quite difficult to take into account. But the next time I meet the board of the Health Insurance Fund, I can ask them, and when I get smarter, I'm sure I'll let you know what I've learned.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U315	Excellent! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. I also assume that the Minister has no further wish to say. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U316	And now, after the hammer hit, it's possible to speak in a free microphone. Priit Toobal, please! You can't talk to me till 2:00 today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U317	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, I thought I'd take the opportunity to speak a few words from the end of last week. I would like to thank those people who shared their concerns with the Group of the Estonian Central Party when we were on a trip to Järvamaa last week on Thursday and Friday. This is my constituency, and I was happy to see a number of people I met during the election campaign. On Thursday, my group met people at Paide Town Hall. The main issue that came up was, of course, the issue of refugees burning passion in all the discussion groups today, but the issues of aid and emigration in Greece were also raised. The further you are from Tallinn, the more the population is concerned that more and more people are leaving the country. The further away from Tallinn, the older the main population is because the young people have already left. The second day was especially interesting, then there were meetings in Paide's senior day centre. The main topic for discussion was the difficulties faced by pensioners living alone, how to pay for it in nursing homes, the poor transport of buses to county centres and smaller settlements in the county, and the prices of medicines. For me, one of the most interesting meetings was in Väätsa Agro, where there is one of Europe's largest cows farms. There's 2050 cows. The message we got from Margus Mulla, the chairman of the board, was that when the state budget procedure starts in Parliament, we could decide to pay out the top-up next year in full, so that farmers can manage. He asked all the political groups to put it to heart. This year, its company will generate losses of EUR For small businesses, this means bankruptcy, big ones can make losses for one or two years, but they can't last any longer. So here is a big appeal to all the groups that care about farmers and jobs in the country. Väätsa Agro offers a job for 90 people from the same county and also a little further away. That is not enough. It's just that it won't last long if the government doesn't help. The last meetings were at the Väätsa boarding house and Türi Home. These were very emotional conversations, where a number of concerns also arose. We got a number of questions from these meetings, and soon the Central Party Group will come up with these questions. Today, however, I take this opportunity to thank everyone who came to see us and shared their concerns with us. The Centre Party Group promises that we will come to Parliament with a number of issues that have arisen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-28_U318	The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 20:22 a.m.
