ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U1	President of the Republic s. Marina Kaljurand was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs by decision No 667 of 15 July 2007. Next, we will hear the oath of foreign minister Marina Kaljuranna. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U2	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U3	The minister can go to work, and we can continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U4	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu, which I have convened on the basis of § 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and § 51 (1) of the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic, at the time and on the agenda requested by the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U5	First of all, honourable members of the Riigikogu, which of you has a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U6	Mr. Chairman! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The Free Party Group considers the exchange of foreign minister to be justified in every way. How this justifies itself in the perspective of the future, we will see it, but in any case the best wishes for Marina Kaljuranna! Due to the fact that there is already a third Foreign Minister in office while Taavi Rõivas is prime minister, seven members of the Free Party Group are asking questions where we are trying to generalise a number of foreign policy issues. In our view, the great task of the government today is to solve Europe-wide foreign policy problems. We are going to ask these questions this time to the Prime Minister, who should maintain consistency in these matters. We're marking a whole bunch of topics here. Russia's aggression against Ukraine and Estonia's action in this regard in the European Union. The problem of refugees, explaining it to the public, possible solutions to protect Europe from this problem, still addressing the roots and causes of this problem. The Greek debt crisis and the prevention of its spread to other countries. The Presidency of the European Union, which we should already prepare, as well as the problems of the External Action Service, the protection of Estonia's economic interests and the Eastern Partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U7	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The seven members of the Free Party shall deliver a draft which, in the official language, shall be entitled 'A bill amending the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws'. In explaining human languages, we want to amend one of the most important points in our view of the so-called cluster law adopted in June, concerning VAT on accommodation establishments. We have a target and a proposal to correct this mistake as soon as possible. If, in our opinion, many members of the coalition's Riigikogu were pressured in a certain sense and could not demonstrate their real will, now that we bring this matter here separately, everyone has the opportunity to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U9	No more wishes. I have adopted a bill and an inquiry. I'm sorry! The government of the Republic, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U10	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching nine draft laws today. Firstly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, on Iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland for the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft Act amending the Act on the person repressed by occupation regimes and the Law on Public Transport. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Protection Margus Tsahkna in the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law ratifying the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Marina Kaljurand. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Medical Device Act. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Law on narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and their precursors. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by Rannar Vasiliev, Minister of Health and Labour, when dealing with these two draft laws. Sixthly, the draft law amending the Accounting Act and related amendments to other laws. Seventh, the draft law amending the Securities Market Act. Eighthly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion. Ninthly, the draft law on the ratification of the agreement on the transfer and sharing of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Sven Sester in the proceedings of the aforementioned four draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U11	Now, I have adopted ten draft laws and one inquiry. We will proceed with them on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. There's a message. Following the end of the plenary session, the Small Strait Support Group will meet in this Chamber. It's called Hannes Hanso. Please, let's do the presence check! 92 members of the Riigikogu are present, there is no 9. Consequently, the extraordinary session shall have a quorum. The extraordinary session takes place on the agenda set by the applicant, but the Riigikogu needs to set a timetable. According to § 52 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, we do so by voting. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Riigikogu Board to work without a break until the agenda is exhausted. Please take a stand and vote. There were 86 members of the Riigikogu in favour of setting the timetable, no respondents or abstentions. Timeline is in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U12	Let us move to our item on the agenda. I would like to remind you of the Rules of Procedure. First, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas is a political statement (up to 30 minutes), then there will be questions. § 155 (4) of the Home and Working Procedures Act gives each member of the Riigikogu the opportunity to ask the rapporteur a question. This will be followed by negotiations with representatives of the political groups. Please, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U13	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! I thank you for the opportunity to share with you the most important topics of the hot political summer. Before we talk about domestic and topical matters, let us take a look at the bigger picture for a moment. Let us look at Europe around us with its strengths and concerns and how all this affects Estonia and the people of Estonia. The opposite attitudes of the coalition and opposition on the most painful issues of the world's day show everyone where Estonia's most acute waterfall goes in today's politics. They clearly show why, in a common Union, it is certain political parties and not the others who are responsible for Estonia's governance. This border line is understanding Estonia's primary security interests and geopolitical location, a question of a strong and united or fragmented and weak Europe. It is also a question of sharing common European values, the question of openness and tolerance, the question of self-confidence and faith in Estonia's ability to cope successfully as an open and European society in today's intertwined world. Some commentators asked, after the euro area summit that rolled into the morning on Monday and ended with a compromise, whether Greece was now losing its independence. Just as independence means being able to do only pleasant and popular things and not to take responsibility. On the contrary, independence means opportunity, ability and, above all, responsibility to do what has to be done. It means being able to decide whether to be or not to be. This choice also exists at the edge of the abyss, and the forces of nature are coming forward. The real choice of the Greek Prime Minister was whether to be and to do the same things in or out of the euro area. The Greek Government had and has this judgment in full, even if it is extremely irresponsible to play with the future of the people and the country. Ignoring economic logic can't be successful for long, the facts will finally get you. It should be recalled that, at the end of last year, Greece was already in the primary surplus of the budget as a result of reforms under the previous government and was able to return to the market. An increase of 0.5% was forecast for this year and all pointed out that the solution is very difficult, but possible. Today, however, we have reached a new stage where we are talking about an already 2-4% recession in the projections. At the same time, the situation of the banking sector has also deteriorated sharply: in Greece, capital controls, banks are closed, the abolition of refinancing in the market has led banks to become fully dependent on the exceptional liquidity aid of the European Central Bank. The banks obviously need further recapitalisation. So using medical terms, it can be said that the Greek economy is connected to the artificial bloodstream. The popular experiments and delays of the winning parties have led Greece to take a long step back in time instead of receiving the last security loan. Six months ago, the Greek Government has already managed to bill the people, which is estimated to be equal to or even greater than the expected volume of the possible aid package. You may ask, because of this earlier talk, how sure can we be that the Greeks will be able to go to the end of all this and also to settle their debts. It is undoubtedly clear that Greece will have to take the difficult path of reforms and cuts back to its feet, and the slope of the road will be even steeper this time than it was before. We are discussing here today the new reform programme and the prospect of the aid package only because the Greek Government decided to turn back from the edge of the abyss and made it clear that it wished to continue in the euro area, and promised to do everything it needed to do. Greece was able to adopt today's first milestone by adopting the first laws in Parliament, with three-quarters of the national ambassadors' support, so that negotiations could begin. In the coming days, he must also be able to reach the next steps. This is Greece's first essential step towards restoring confidence. The ability to unite the forces of the government and the opposition at a critical moment is of symbolic importance. You can ask now, but what do we get out of it? Would it not be easier and more useful to let the Greek economy collapse and leave the euro area? It's easy to say, "Let's go, we don't need them." We can handle our finances! Such a view would probably be popular, but it would also be exceptionally short-sighted. The financial loss of Greece's exit from the euro area alone to Estonia would be measurable in hundreds of millions of euros and this financial loss would only be the top of the iceberg. A much greater threat must be seen in the crumbling of European unity, in the failure of European ideals. Populists could never have created and maintained the European Union. It's so much easier to burn bridges than to build them. This decision would also have a direct negative impact on our security. Insolvent and a country with completely unpredictable behaviour could easily be wounded by any external influences, including those that directly threaten the security of both Estonia and other allies. None of us would like to see a country at the table of the European Union and NATO that is dependent on a hostile country. However, this is the kind of danger that would arise if we decisively turned our backs on Greece. We must never forget that when Europe turns its back on each other's concerns, Estonia's independence is among the first victims on the edge of the Western world. I consider it very important that our allies remain strong and that we do not reverse the European political process. But let us also say once again to those who do not want or cannot see the big picture, that, even if only cynically and pragmatically speaking, the exit of Greece from the euro area would be a great loss for Estonia. A loss of hundreds of millions of euros. In summary, the decisions taken by the Greek Government and Parliament in the near future will depend very much on Greece as well as on the whole of Europe and Estonia. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A great deal of commitment also requires all of us to resolve the refugee crisis in the Mediterranean. Article 14 of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which was approved in 1945, says that every person has the right to seek asylum for persecution in other countries and to use it. In Estonia, it is not necessary to explain to anyone how important this right is and how important it was to the people of Estonia who lost only a few or three generations of their homes, lands and homelands because of the war and occupation. It wasn't easier on them than on the other side. Perhaps the vast majority of them would, if possible, have traded a foreign land for a ride home. Karl Crossstone summed up this emotion very accurately in his poem 'I too was on the way to Arcaadia'. The right referred to in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is guaranteed in Europe, inter alia, by Article 18 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. A common asylum law is essential, above all, for the Schengen area and the fundamental freedoms of Europe to function at all so that people can move and work freely within Europe without internal border controls. Today, European law places responsibility first and foremost on those countries that have a close connection with the person. This means that the main responsibility lies with the border states. To a certain extent, this expectation is reasonable, but in the face of a serious crisis, too much responsibility remains with the countries of the forefront. Just adding border guards won't do you any good if you can't send people back. The European Commission has therefore offered that all European countries could take a fraction of those people in need of protection under their wing. It also aims to avoid a situation that would lead to the restoration of border controls, a reversal of European freedoms. It also expresses solidarity with the Member States of the European Union directly bordering the Mediterranean. I have repeatedly stressed that the mechanical quota proposed to Estonia by the Commission was disproportionate. The solution currently on the table of the Ministers of the Interior is based on the model, or proportional distribution based on the size of the countries, proposed by Estonia and approved by consensus in the Committee on European Union Affairs with the participation of all the political groups of the Riigikogu. I believe that without any hysteria and panic, Estonia will be able to receive these few hundred people in a few years. The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Social Affairs is preparing an action plan to be prepared to integrate and help people coming to Estonia. Apart from the European Union's financial resources, we must also have substantive preparedness, i.e. specialists and a thoughtful plan. Human sympathy, universal humanistic values, as well as solidarity with our allies, are, of course, the guiding motives for the issue of refugees. However, I will end this subject with the words of Sten Tamkivi that the inevitable prerequisite for innovation is tolerance against a different one. If we are to be a modern developing country, it is inevitable that we will not be limited to the rapid adoption of new technologies in the world tomorrow. Our curiosity and world view must be enriched by an open attitude to different ideas and perspectives. All the more reason we must try to respect the 'various nature' of these carriers, unless it deviates, of course, from the rules of our common life. Racism or any other anger, however, has no justification or harmony with our own rules of common life. After all, man himself is a measure of all things. Honourable Riigikogu! Stepping from the post-election era of a hundred days without criticism into a critical period, I have another major concern at my heart. This is a concern for Estonia's political culture. While it has so far been the practice in Estonia that in the field of foreign policy, where unified representation of the state is a priority, a larger and broader consensus has usually been maintained, it has now been replaced by instigation, worming and prying a cheap domestic political point or rating. I very much hope that the basic principle of our foreign policy 'Never again alone! " In the end, there will be no black - and - white danger of populism. Europe, acting on the 'eye for eye and tooth for tooth' principle of the Hammurab Code, would not be understood by its citizens or its Member States. Replying to populism with populism is the same thing. By leading the country on the basis of opinion polls and online comments, we are very quickly getting stuck. Estonia should never allow itself to rule based on a sense of moment, an illusory expression of the will of the people and political magic. A country based on a vision can easily become an illusion itself and, in the end, maybe so independent that nothing depends on it at all. If Europe loses its ability to compromise, Europe will lose itself. That is why I am calling on all political forces here today to make Estonia's political culture more responsible and country-manly. Believe me, voters appreciate this much more than a wind flag in every way. Honourable ambassadors! We also need responsibility and a long-term view to cope with a significantly changed security situation. Although Europe's main focus in recent months has been on Greece and Europe's migration problems, we must not forget that there is still a war going on here in Europe, in the immediate vicinity of our borders, for over a year and a half. The war in Eastern Ukraine continues, it is not slowing down or ending. We must continue to pursue a policy that has so far well convinced Russia that the West will not forget what has been done. Although some may feel that Russia's behaviour is a new normality, Estonia has a moral duty to stand up for Europe not abolishing sanctions until Russia has started to comply with all international agreements, that is, until Crimea has been returned to Ukraine. Europe must continue to roll up the price with the means we have to convince it that such action in Ukraine is harmful to Russia itself and that the price of intervention is high for it itself. We must continue to convince Ukraine that the chosen future of the Ukrainian people, based on democracy, justice and free trade, is the right one. We must support, above all, the economy, social stability, the normalisation of quality of life. We must, both politically and practically, support the Western integration of Ukraine, be it visa liberalisation, access to education or training of Ukrainian Defence Corps medical staff. We must continue to strengthen ourselves and our region's deterrence. That's what the government has done in the first hundred days. Nearly a year ago, when I went to the NATO Wales Summit last autumn, I stressed that three elements of fundamental importance to Estonia's security are: the presence of allies, pre-location of equipment and defence planning. I am very grateful to our allies in North America and Europe for their solidarity and their military presence. I am pleased that more Allied Forces soldiers have been trained this year in Estonia and in the neighbouring region on land, in the sea, in the air and in cyberspace than ever before. A month ago, on the territory of the General Staff of the Defence Forces, we launched a NATO element of staff where, in conjunction with the Estonian Defence Forces, allies from the United States, the Netherlands, Canada, Norway, Poland, France, Germany, Great Britain and Hungary will be involved in the adoption of NATO rapid response units. The US Secretary of Defence, who visited Estonia on Victory Day, confirmed that the US technology and equipment will be pre-allocated to NATO border countries. This is an important step forward in strengthening Estonia's security. Such solidarity and standing up for common values have made NATO the most powerful military alliance, none of which has fallen victim to military aggression in 66 years. We're heading in the right direction. Much has been done, but much remains to be done, because Estonia's security is something that is never perfectly guaranteed. Our defence will never be completed; we will continue to strengthen it internally and with our allies. Good Riigikogu! You must know that when it comes to security, to defending Estonia's independence, I tend to get carried away. I admit that I will take this issue with passion, and I assure you that Estonia's security will continue to be a strong priority for the government that I manage. Of course, the important objectives of the current government are also to stimulate economic and income growth and support families with children. But here, the water-hunting between Estonian political parties is not a matter of purpose, but only of means. Some policies just work and spend less taxpayers' money, others spend a lot, but they don't work at all, no way or tin. Some policies are so costly that they can bankrupt the whole country. Greece has probably made it much easier for many to distinguish between these policies in their figurative form. The overall balance between the State contributions and the tax revenue collected by the State must be balanced. Would the advocates of imbalance, debt living and spending on future generations want to stand in line with the Greeks in Athens today in front of an ATM? Which one of you cute compatriots would like to do it in Tallinn? Would you like to live in a country where your pension is high on paper, but it cannot be paid out to you for months? I don't think so. The government has received a lot of unseries for continuing with the policies that led to the growth so far, though for taking the programme of a hundred days we planned seriously. But next year, both pensions and child and subsistence benefits will rise in Estonia. This money is a hundred percent available in the state budget and will inevitably reach the accounts as well. Within the first hundred days, the government has implemented the law with the help of you, which reduces the tax burden on both workers and pensioners, raises these benefits and guarantees that Estonia is well protected. In addition, we have put in place plans both for the creation of a self-employed pensioner support scheme and for the creation of a single parent maintenance fund. We have fermented our sleeves and also prepared for a reform that has been tried for 20 years but has not yet been achieved. The first hundred days have only increased our belief that a reform of the local government is possible. We have also taken a step forward with the reform of working capacity. I consider it very important that all people wishing to work in Estonia are actually welcome into the labour market. The coalition agreement includes smaller and larger reforms and reforms of the Estonian state for all subsequent four years. The government association has formed three serious political parties. The newly appointed presidents of the partner parties have assured me that they will also take the rest of the programme as seriously as we have done for 100 days. I am sure that there will therefore be good news for entrepreneurs and workers as well as pensioners, both today and future parents, both for the liberals dreaming of administrative reform and privatisation. The government coalition is also ready to discuss new ideas that will help to better protect Estonia, help Estonian families to grow and help Estonian companies and workers to earn more in harsh international competition. We have clearly stated what the great objectives of the government union are, and all ideas are expected to achieve these objectives. However, these ideas will only be part of the government's action programme under three conditions. Firstly, these policies must work. This means that not only do they sound beautiful, but, given the known pattern of human behavior, they also enable the stated objectives to be achieved in practice. The government is certainly interested in including the international knowledge of the best social scientists in Estonia in assessing the potential effectiveness of the policies offered. Secondly, these policies must not bankrupt the Estonian state in years' time. This means that these policies will also be affordable in economic terms for a declining community of taxpayers made up of people working in Estonia after years. Thirdly, there must be consensus between the three partner parties when assessing whether the first two points are being met. Honourable Riigikogu! For all those to whom the future of Estonia and Europe is important, a working autumn following a busy summer can be predicted. Good luck to all of us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U14	Members of the Riigikogu are now able to ask questions. Let me remind you that there is one question about a member. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister! Some time ago, there was news in the 'Actual Camera' about redundancies in Ida-Virumaa in the autumn. It was quite a malicious broadcast because the video series was also mounted in the scenes of the rebel Eastern Ukraine. Since I do not believe that the morons working in the ERR, who do not know the difference between Ukraine and Estonia, it was either a stupid joke that cannot be forgiven, or a conscious provocation that creates hatred and anger. Since the ERR is in the realm of your government, I want and I really want Ida-Viru County to know from you who put this show together and how these people have been punished for this, we admit, an idiotic provocation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U16	Thank you. That's a good question. I would like to begin by stressing that the ERR is not in the realm of government or the Minister of Culture. ERR is completely independent in the production of the content of programmes. It would be impossible for politicians to influence their message, all the more so because Estonia is at the absolute top of the world in terms of media freedom. But I, too, have an opinion as a citizen. I say that bringing this parallel to this news page had been exceptionally unsuccessful.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U17	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U18	Thank you. Prime Minister! It was quite unclear what you wanted to say to us or to the people of Estonia in your quite arrogant statement today. I'll lighten your situation a little bit. Maybe you'll explain what you've managed to do in a hundred days. I have not noticed that the standard of living of the Estonian people has increased. You're talking about raising pensions, but that a few percent increase was simply provided for in the law. We are still one of the last in the European Union in terms of the size of pensions. Wage poverty lasts. There has already been talk of labour problems. Perhaps you will find something that you can say that you have done it and that you have now justified the confidence of the people. In addition, the popularity of government parties continues to fall. What is the result of the success you spoke of with such a superior and very optimistic tone? I didn't understand it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U19	Thank you. I believe it is necessary to make a strong effort to consider my tone to be superior, but if anyone felt that way, then be assured that I certainly did not have that in mind. If necessary, I'm willing to apologize if anyone doesn't like my tone and the sound of my voice. Now let's get down to business. First of all, what we have done to ensure that the Estonian state is even better protected. We actually have confidence for the next four years that more than 2% of GDP will be able to spend on the protection of the Estonian state. It's in the country's budget strategy, it's in black white. In addition, the government has made one-off decisions to use more than 40 million euros, helping to perpetuate and increase the presence of allies in Estonia. The biggest change in Estonia's security in the last year and a half has been, of course, beyond what is happening outside Estonia, that now there is a new normality when our allies from NATO are physically present here. In these hundred days too, we have made a number of decisions that have further improved this situation. In addition, strengthening internal security. The government has decided to allocate money to build the eastern border of Estonia. As early as Monday, a new Narva border crossing point will be completed, which will be safer and with more capacity. Next year, we intend to continue to build the eastern border with great force. We have set aside 20 million euros for this, which is an unprecedented amount of money when building the Estonian border. This will help to guard and protect the Estonian border much better. Together with Parliament, we have legalised both a reduction in social tax and an increase in the tax-free minimum and support for the low-paid. The law has also become that next year the limit of living will rise to 130 euros. This concerns the people most in need of help. Single parents are also in need of help in Estonian society, whose child's other parent does not pay maintenance allowance. We have today confirmed in the government a plan of action on how to solve the problem of these people and how to start the creation of a livelihood fund that had been planned for at least 10 years. Alone pensioners are also a group whose life has become difficult when their spouse has disappeared. We've been thinking about them, too. We are developing a support scheme that will improve their livelihood. The first child's allowance will increase to EUR 60 over the next four years and, if there are three children in the family, it will be possible to receive EUR 300 for the third child. It shall apply from 1 July 2017. All these decisions have been passed by law. We have taken steps to make the economy grow faster. I would like, for example, to reduce the administrative burden on micro-enterprises. There are very, very, very many of these steps. The fact that pensions are rising is indeed in the law, but it depends directly on economic growth. In order for the economy to grow, the government must work very tensely in cooperation with Estonian companies. This must be done, it does not happen in itself, the environment must be good. So quite a number of decisions that have a positive impact on economic growth in Estonia have already been taken or will be adopted in the near future. The first preparations for administrative reform or self-government reform have also moved ahead of schedule, even a little ahead of schedule. Minister Arto Aas has taken this matter very seriously. I'm glad it's not just government business. Three political parties have the same understanding in the government, but there has also been a representative of your party at the table in the expert group or in the government committee, and he has also supported these principles. I am sincerely pleased that there are issues in Estonian society that can also be resolved by consensus across the coalition and opposition line. It is very supportive of major reforms. So there are plenty of things that have been done in a hundred days. We set ourselves very ambitious targets. To date, 84% of all tasks scheduled for 100 days have already been completed. By tonight, this percentage will probably be higher, because a number of issues will still come to decision in the office today. There are also things that we have decided to postpone by a week or two, because some details still need to be clarified, but they will also be done in the coming weeks. So the plan will be completed by nearly 100%.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U20	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U21	Thank you. Prime Minister! You talked a lot about the big picture, Europe and Greece, but I think we should look at the bigger picture in Estonia as well. Ida-Viru County also belongs to this big picture. I think the loss of several hundred, nearly a thousand jobs is a disaster. While we already knew about the redundancies in Nitroferd, the concentration of the state company Eesti Energia in the mine should still have taken very seriously and seen what would happen there in the future. We know that it is already one of the regions with the highest unemployment rates and, of course, there is also great poverty there. I think there is a security threat here, because when people don't have jobs or money, there are tensions and they can become explosive. What have you done to avoid all this? Please also tell me whether Estonia is still well protected, as you have said!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U22	Thank you. Like I said, you can't ignore economic logic. If Greece had borrowed all its debt from the market, which was not possible, as we know, then it would not be able to serve such a large debt. As regards structural reforms, some say that they are being imposed on Greece. I say that they are kindly recommended to Greece, because they really help their society first and then Europe and creditors. As a result of reforms, the economy would be able to grow. In addition, it helps that loans from the ESM, EFSF and several institutions have been granted for quite a long time and at quite favourable interest rates. Greece will have to reach a significant primary surplus in the coming years with its budget, which means that the Greek budget will have to be in surplus before the loan is serviced. This is the price to be paid for living past debts. The loan is never free. In the Riigikogu, by the way, it is suggested that Estonia should also take more loans. However, the loan must always be repaid, and Greece is also an example of this. So the economic logic cannot be ignored, loans can only be served if the interest is very favourable and the loan term is long enough. Despite the fact that IMF analysts have advised countries to consider reducing their commitments by writing off their debts, I do not support it. I consider the offer made by the European Heads of State and agreed with Alexis Tsipras that Greece must privatise its assets at 50 billion, which is 28% of Greece's GDP, by the way. A considerable part of this money, three-quarters, must go to debt reduction. Greece's own assets are being sold and the debt burden can be reduced in this way, not just by writing guarantees from its taxpayers in the chimneys by other countries. We cannot accept that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U23	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U24	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! I have listened to discussions in the media at the level of the European Union Affairs Commission and ministers. In your speech today, words such as 'confidence', 'independence' (whether Greece is independent) and 'privatisation' also sounded. I mean, you are now saying that privatisation is being imposed on Greece. We did it ourselves in the 1990s, voluntarily sold half of Estonia, so dusty. Is Estonia independent in this sense? In the course of the debate, did you propose that Greece restore its good name and, as we were set an example, live with our salaries, our pensions, our incomes and subsidies for one year, and if they were alive in one year's time, we would give them a loan and they would regain confidence in our eyes? Did you discuss that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U25	Thank you. Estonia is undoubtedly an independent state and not only, Estonia is a very dignified independent state that can handle its own affairs. The fact that privatisation was carried out in Estonia in the 1990s was certainly the right principle. This contributed to future economic growth, helped several companies move from a planned economy to a market economy and achieved much better results than would have been possible if they continued to do so on the basis of the principles of the planned economy. I believe that Greece should do exactly the same. It's not because someone's pushing it on them, it's because it's right. Yeah, on the one hand, that's how you get the money. More specifically, 37.5 billion out of this 50 billion will go to reduce Greece's debt. After all, it seems reasonable that if the debtor had any assets, it would be agreed that he would be good and would sell some of it and pay back the debt. I think that makes sense to everyone. But as a second and not least, it will help the Greek economy to grow in the future. It doesn't have to be that every commercial bank, hotel or marina owner is the state. Private owners can do much better in this business. It is up to the state, as in Estonia, to deal with companies that are necessary for the state either in the security policy or in other strategic terms. The state has little reason to operate in a clean market, to operate shops or hotels. I therefore think that it is reasonable to think that it is time for Greece to privatise a little more than they have done so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U26	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! In the media posts, a message was flashing recently, perhaps initiated by historians, which some considered to be a joke, but some did not. It was said that the whole world owed Greece, because Greece is the cradle of Europe's cultural heritage, and it was proposed that a Greek cultural heritage protection tax should be introduced in all countries. Could Estonia suddenly do that, could it be the first? Or should it still be left to private individuals? If so, can the government recommend a fund for the protection of ancient culture in Greece, but not for pensions or elsewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U28	Thank you, good questioner! That's a pretty good question. If such a proposal should be made by the Centre Party Group, the government will naturally conscientiously discuss this proposal, as the law provides. Nor would I be overly optimistic about the introduction of such a tax. However, if some people in Estonia should have the irresistible will to support the Greek cultural monuments, there could be one way to see them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U29	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U30	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good Prime Minister! We can only accept the view that Grexit would have a significant impact on European unity. Security policy would, of course, have a major impact on smaller countries such as Estonia. At the same time, we know that Grex would not, in fact, exempt Greece from paying debts. You mentioned in your statement that Estonia would suffer losses for hundreds of millions of euros. Would you clarify the content of Grexit's negative fiscal impact on Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The issue of refugees has caused a great deal of nervousness. Apparently, the government's public communications have also been overlooked. But I would also like to congratulate the government, namely that we are not talking about quotas of the size of thousands of people anymore. We are now talking about much smaller orders of magnitude, and perhaps more affordable ones. The root of the problem lies in the Mediterranean region: the northern coast of Africa, its permeability, human smuggling. Tell us, please, what are Estonia's positions, how could it still be possible to put the lock in front more strongly. I will direct you a little: what role does Russia play in the right of veto in the UN Security Council? He can prevent more decisive operations, not only in North Africa, but also in Syria.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U32	Thank you. This is a very long and complex question. I will try to be as brief as possible. It is a point of thinking whether it is to put Europe on the ground, or whether there would be no war or humanitarian crisis in these regions. I think that the other side is really dealing with the problem, but it is much harder to deal with it than to lock Europe up. I'm not even sure this padlock is the best solution to the end. To some extent, however, some openness should still be maintained in Europe, especially for people whose lives are objectively at risk and who are really at risk in their own country. These issues have been dealt with very thoroughly by the specially convened Extraordinary Council, which has been discussed by the Ministers of the Interior. I assure you that although public attention is always focused on how many refugees move to which country in the next two years, this has been a very passionate topic, it does not mean that it has not been very thoroughly dealt with, for example, the legal issues of possible North African missions, be it the UN mandate or the consent of the government, which, we know, Libya is very difficult to obtain, but it has also been dealt with with border guard missions to which Estonia is contributing, etc. This topic is, of course, much more complex than how many people move to one country or another. But I agree that this solution, which is currently agreed in Europe, is fair. I mean, it's honest that all countries are helping. It's human, it's dignified, it's solidarity. All countries contribute proportionally. There is no incomprehensible formula that would give rise to justified resentment, so why, then, how did this result come to be achieved? It is now relatively transparent in my opinion; Estonia itself offered it as one of several countries. I think the final solution is actually reasonable. The people of Estonia are probably so smart that they understand that any fear of mass immigration was actually completely inappropriate. Inciting populist anger, the wind disappears from the sails very quickly when the decisions actually made are heard.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U33	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U34	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! You mentioned that we are moving in the right direction. But I don't know if this is the right direction. When a friend of mine retired a few years ago, working in a mine for 42 years, he was assigned a pension of EUR 427. You will also understand that it is about twice as much as it could have been in Greece. But in Ida-Virumaa, the main question is jobs. My colleague, Marika Tuus, has already spoken about Nitroferd. I am not going to talk about this again. But excuse me, Prime Minister, the fact that the country is creating jobs is not a serious talk. I remember when Mart Laar was talking about 4,000 jobs. It's somewhere in the air, on paper. Yesterday, your government minister spoke of 3,000 jobs and promised we'd have them soon. I have a practical question for you. If you can't say that from this remote today, maybe in a couple of days or three, you can write down where these 3,000 jobs come from. Is that promise gonna be on paper again?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U35	Thank you. I fully agree with you that the state will only create jobs in the public sector and there will be limited opportunities. Rather, there is always pressure to make the public sector less burdensome to the taxpayer. The jobs are created by state-owned companies, but most of the jobs, of course, are created by private companies. The most striking example of how jobs are created in cooperation with the state in Ida-Virumaa is industrial parks. They have confirmed that during this year it is completely realistic to create a circum 500 jobs. The State's participation there is linked to the creation of industrial park infrastructure and the introduction of land. I'm sure you're aware that I've visited several industrial parks, too. It's impressive what's going on out there. Jobs are created and, indeed, in very different sectors. Secondly, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure has met with the Viru Chemistry Group, who, as far as I know, has also announced publicly that they intend to create 300 jobs in the near future. I have heard many more of these examples. I brought another example first. On the territory of the former Baltijets, there is a willingness to create 250 jobs in the circuit, but this depends very much on whether the Narva City Government supports this plan. It is a relatively prominent industry in Narva. This particular company wants confirmation that Narva City Government will accept it if there is an expansion of production. Repeatedly, the manager of the plant's parent company has assured me that they have this readiness. He did so when we met in Narva and when he attended the days of Estonian friends. There are more examples of this; they were just the most vivid examples. It's hard for me to say what this exact number is. This depends primarily on companies. I see there's a readiness. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure is very active in relations with companies. The Minister of Health and Labour has made sure that today, if I remember correctly, there will be meetings at the unemployment fund in Nitroferd, which will provide practical information. Both Kristen Michal and Rannar Vassilyev will meet representatives of Nitroferd and several other companies on Monday. So the government is far from falling apart from solving this issue. We're working on it as much as we can.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U36	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U37	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Mr Prime Minister! Aadu Black proposed a special scheme for the protection of Greece's cultural heritage earlier. He's not in this room right now, but I'd like to yell, Aadu, don't give them any new ideas. There was a lot of talk about economic logic in the light of the rescue of Greece and about how economic logic will soon be caught by politicians. This has not yet happened, especially with regard to the Brussels politicians. It was said how Greece would fall into the abyss if it did not agree to a new package of financing or loans. Greece is already in the abyss. Greece is a totally insolvent and economically corrupted country. There was also talk about how Estonia will lose so-called invested money if Greece is allowed to leave the euro zone. With the next breath, Prime Minister, you are suggesting that we increase our participation in the bankruptcies, perhaps even more money, and we all know, in the light of the economic logic and of the events that are now obviously unravelling, that Greece is not able to serve this debt.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U38	Thank you. There's some way the question got in the air, but okay. You can't against economic laws. Neither can Estonia, which has been responsible for the country's finances for 25 years. Last year the Estonian state budget was in a small surplus, this year the Estonian state budget is well balanced and so will be in the coming years. I think our people understand why we do this. We have done exactly the opposite of what has been done in Greece, and I think we have done the right thing. In Greece, there have been a great many decisions over time that have made the future prospects of the Greek state and the people much darker. Greece, by the way, has been hit hardest by the last six months when populists have been in power. It's worth thinking about. I think that is what the people of Estonia are thinking very carefully about. Populism's flight never lasts long, and responsibility is always very difficult to find there. However, this does not mean that the correct solution is to say to the Greek people that it is right, you wanted it, and to the Estonian taxpayers that we do not want to get the money back from Greece. Yes, we do! If the next steps are to be taken to make sure that Estonian taxpayers' money is not lost, then Parliament must also discuss them thoroughly. I have made no recommendation today in any direction. It's too soon for that. The absolute prerequisite for any further steps is for Greece to take its steps ahead: adoption of laws, acceptance of reforms. The first steps were taken on the night before today, but we are still waiting for the next steps. Greece must agree with Europe a very long and difficult reform programme, which must be confirmed by the best analysts from the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank that, yes, if this programme is to be implemented, a solution will be possible. I think that none of us can actually imagine what it means to be a programme country and what part of the decisions must then be delegated to those who are indebted. But if you go too far in debt, it's gonna happen. There's nothing to do. Our role in this situation is to behave in a dignified way as a creditor and to do everything possible to get out of Greece's problems, but also to ensure that Estonian people's money is not lost. If we told Greece to leave the European Union, this would immediately mean a bill of hundreds of millions of euros for Estonian taxpayers. I think it would be irresponsible for the Greek and Greek people who do not deserve it, even if they have chosen a populist government, but it would also be unfair to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U39	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U40	President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! You briefly addressed the topic of Estonian political culture in your speech. As the need for this change is great, this was already demonstrated by the will of the electorate, which brought more parties to the Riigikogu. But it seems to me that we and you do not understand the problems of Estonian political culture in the same way. The Free Party has seen problems in funding political parties, forced partying, dull ignoring different opinions, etc. Please, would you clarify, Mr Rõivas, what problems you see as Prime Minister and Chairman of the Reform Party in Estonia's political culture and what you meant in your speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U41	Thank you. I've talked about it long enough. In my opinion, we should have enough responsibility and statesmanship to avoid taking low-hanging fruit when using the English expression, or picking up quick points with what in the distant view is actually damaging Estonia's interests. Foreign policy, also European Union policy, is an area in which we have been able to maintain almost a consensus for 20 years. It's been a great asset. I very much like that, although we can even fight at home, but when we go out of the country, I hope you and I, regardless of who we are in the government, congratulate our country, say that we are proud of our country, and say those things that we really think are right in our hearts. We do not think that the Prime Minister is currently from another party, and that is why the country is somehow bad. This is one of the reasons why during the previous government I was very angry with the media in Tallinn. Not only did they make cheap propaganda for the party in power in the city, but they denigrated the Estonian state. This is where I think there's a line. Maybe I'm an idealist, maybe I'm naive, but I believe it's possible to be a compromise on certain issues from the desire to score and win short-term popularity and in the interests of the country. By the way, as paradoxical as it may be, Greece's decision of today was a step in this direction. I communicate with both Greek coalition and opposition politicians, and I know them pretty well. It would have been very easy for the opposition to barbecue the Cipra. There were also those in his own party who opposed this agreement. If the opposition had agreed with them, there would already be a new Prime Minister and a government crisis in Greece today, they would have won over Tsipras. But the opposition didn't go picking that low-hanging fruit. They made a much more responsible decision. So there's something to think about. Time will show whether the new political parties in Parliament will improve Estonia's political culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U42	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U43	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I'm somewhat puzzled by the feeling of superiority you're demonstrating in front of us. In my opinion, you have no moral or intellectual reason to do so. Scientists, well-known cultural figures and journalists must listen to you teach, what is right and what is wrong and how to hold a political discussion and how not to hold it. I think it is up to Parliament to decide, however, that it is not up to you to dictate. But here's the question. You talk a lot about solidarity. In my opinion, because of our constitution, the task of the Government of the Republic of Estonia No 1 is primarily to show solidarity with its people. I don't see it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U44	Thank you. I only treat the parliament of the Republic of Estonia with respect and with great respect. It can't be any other way. It is, I think, very clear to everyone that our views are very different on a number of issues. I'm not afraid to say it either. But I very much appreciate that Estonia has a multiplicity of opinions and a political debate. A different view of political debate should not be interpreted as arrogance or even arrogance. This is the way to achieve the best solutions. You are, of course, entitled to your opinion as well, and you will probably say it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U45	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U46	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! In your political speech, you thoroughly touched on foreign policy issues, which are undoubtedly very important and critical. At the same time, we would have liked to have heard your equally thorough opinion or views on domestic policy issues as well. On 25 June, I asked you a written question, seeking full information on the government's '100-day plan' item 5 'To reform state and local administration and mitigate peripheralisation'. You also said in your speech that such reforms are possible. However, in your reply of 9 July, you argued that the Ministry of Justice did not intend to disclose the analyses and proposals concerning governance and administrative arrangements. Please, however, give us an overview of the analyses and proposals that have been made that have been declared secret.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U47	Thank you. I start with the fact that I find it inappropriate to see the security threat to Estonia in the Estonian people. But let that be your judgment. Of course, the fact that Nitrofert and many other companies have made difficult decisions in the restructuring process must be taken very seriously. I know that the unemployment fund is also very thoroughly prepared for this specific lay-off. There are over 600 million euros in the reserves of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, if I say correctly by head, in order to deal with unemployment reduction and find jobs for these people, as well as in order to pay them the benefits and benefits provided. I know that Rannar Vassilyev, Minister of Health and Labour, has meetings in Nitroferd and several other companies at the beginning of next week. I know that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal, has already discussed with a number of industrial companies what their future plans are for creating new jobs. It is public information that the Viru Chemistry Group is planning to employ several hundred people. It is known that several industrial parks created with the participation of the state in Ida-Virumaa plan to create up to 500 jobs by the end of this year. I myself have spent the last hundred days in an industrial company wishing to create about 250 jobs in the territory of the former Baltijets. By the way, they expect the city government to take a much more firm stance as to whether the city's policy will continue to be able to devote itself to industry in the region. If the city were willing to give them that confirmation, it would only be a matter of time before these 250 new jobs with a decent salary are created, by the way. So, in itself, it's the right theme setting. These issues need to be addressed. If people still have concerns and some businesses in the region are closing their doors, care must be taken to ensure that other businesses can create new jobs. I assure you that already this year, several companies in Ida-Virumaa plan to create thousands of jobs. Eesti Energia as a whole has contributed 900 million euros to Ida-Virumaa with investments in recent years alone. Auvere has an oil plant using Enefit-280 technology, and a new power plant with a total of EUR 900 million. Nowhere in Estonia has nearly as much investment been made as it has been in Ida-Virumaa. It creates jobs in Ida-Viru County. ERM is often referred to as the construction of the century and for good reason, the ERM is worthy of this name, but in monetary terms the construction of ERM is 13 times smaller than what is currently taking place in Auvere alone in Ida-Viru County.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U48	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U49	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! I want to ask you about Greece. Greece has very high unemployment. In order to receive a new package of assistance, Greece needs to carry out labour market reforms. It is remembered that when Estonia was experiencing an economic crisis, we had a new employment contract law, which made our labour market much more flexible. Today, this law has been in force for six years. Do you know what labour market reforms Greece is planning?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U50	Thank you. Yes, a reform package has been agreed with Greece, which is not only intended for them to be able to serve their debts, although this is a priority from our point of view, but also for Greek society to be sustainable and their economy to turn to growth. Labour market reforms have also been agreed there. This relates somewhat to the previous issue, because they also intend to liberalise the labour market, making a number of changes in the same direction that Estonia has already made. In Greece, for example, there is currently a rule that if more than 50 people are to be made redundant, it must be authorised by the government. Obviously, this is a very popular requirement, because one can hope that the redundancies will be cancelled. But the reality of this is that Estonia's experience has taught us that it is very difficult to recruit people when it is very difficult to gather people. Rather, the consequence may be that a company that does not receive government authorisation to lay off is not a political decision, it is an economic decision, it will later go bankrupt. I, too, took the floor on this at the last Euro Summit. I spoke not so much about what Greece should do, but about what Estonia has done. What Estonia did in 2009 by liberalising its labour market laws in good cooperation with the social partners helped in any case to reduce very high unemployment in Estonia very quickly. Textbook wisdom says that if unemployment goes up quickly in times of crisis, it should come down at a much flattening angle. However, we know that the angles of rise and decline have been equal in Estonia. This shows that our labour market has become much more flexible than it was before the crisis. I believe that, in the light of Estonia's experience, it can be said that Greece could make similar changes. I'm sure that would help them too.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U51	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U52	Thank you to the manager. Good Prime Minister! You are talking about integrating refugees in the light of your eyes, both linguistically and professionally. That's the last half I'm really interested in. The recent strong trend has been that the number of jobs is decreasing outside Harjumaa. Ida-Viru, not only, but also Läänemaa, can be an example here. The Social Democrats and the Centre Party have repeatedly offered a solution to help create jobs outside Harjumaa. It's tax exemptions. Why are you against them? I am thinking precisely that they will help create jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U53	Thank you. I am in favour of policies that actually work. It will work if there is a favourable economic environment throughout the country, such as the most flexible labour market already mentioned in response to the previous questioner. It helps create jobs. I know several entrepreneurs who are also interested in investing in Läänemaa, not only because of the region, but because the economic environment in Estonia as a whole is such that they believe that they can invest in Estonia. If you look at the statistics, you can see that your claim that jobs are disappearing is not true. Looking by months, years, quarters or anything, the trend is that there is an increasing shortage of labour in Estonia. Many Estonian entrepreneurs, by the way, who have made these very worrying decisions in Haapsalu, have complained about the fact that there is a shortage of labour in Estonia. That, too, has to be dealt with. We must help the people of Estonia to re-learn and improve themselves. This, too, is one of the priorities of the current government so that our own Estonian people who want to work, including those whose ability to work has been reduced due to poor health, can open the way to the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U54	Thank you. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U55	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! You started your speech with the question of how you can ignore economic logic. I ask you exactly how you can ignore it. The Greek debt burden will be 400 billion euros after the third aid package; the population will be about 8.5 times larger than in Estonia. Estonia's guarantee liabilities in the EFSF amounted to 570 million euros as of 30 April. According to what economic logic is Greece able to meet its debt obligations and Estonia's guarantee obligations will not be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U56	Thank you. That is a very good question, which, by the way, is quite difficult to answer. This requires speculation on possible scenarios that we do not really want to speculate on. But I'm still trying to do it within certain limits. What was said at the Euro Summit in the context of what would have happened if no agreement had been reached that night? It would have been most likely that, as early as 20 July, Greece would not be able to make a payment to the European Central Bank. The European Central Bank cannot finance countries, which means that it should therefore, in my opinion, demand the money back from Greece as a sufficiently automatic process. If Greece does not have this money, this means that the European Central Bank and, as part of the central bank, Eesti Pank should probably also write off the debt by writing it down. The probability must be assessed as prescribed by the accounting rules. I'm sure the central banks have a little more complicated rules, but the general principles are the same as the most common ones. If the central bank signs something out of its balance sheet, it is directly loss-making and it is already financially measurable. In addition, and now the debate is going to be very speculative, the pressure is woken. EFSF and ESM have lent to Greece. There are also earlier bilateral loans, although their deadlines have not yet arrived, the first repayment dates are in 2022. Should there also be a reasonable expectation that the loan should be written down, in whole or in part? This pressure would undoubtedly arise, and this would be a direct attack on the state budget. There's no way we want that. So the scenarios that envisaged Greece's exit from the euro area if no agreement had been reached would obviously also have meant direct financial costs. Even now, in my opinion, this is still really possible if the countries do not agree with Greece on the next package and Greece is not prepared to make reforms and cuts in expenditure. In addition, there would be instability and the obligation to provide humanitarian aid, rather than an obligation, but the European Union would need to provide humanitarian aid, because the situation there would still be very, very ugly. We don't want to imagine that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U57	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U58	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! Greece has recently been the focus of attention, and this has at least caused considerable concern to the Eastern Partnership countries. Quite often, they have said that Europe can only deal with one problem at a time, and Greece is now understandable. How have you, the Prime Ministers, tried to keep the Eastern Partnership at the centre of attention? Let us look, for example, at the reforms that have taken place in Ukraine, which are constantly being recalled. The subsidization of gas, heating and electricity is almost lost there and people have to pay more for utilities than they can afford in real terms. Very many social cuts have been made in Parliament with great pain. They're gonna ask what they're gonna get for this. What is the message from the Prime Ministers?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U59	I thank you for this very important emphasis. I also stressed in my speech that there is absolutely no reason, despite all the acute crises, to forget what is happening in Ukraine. There were also 90 gunfights on the night of today, weapons like this, howitzers that shouldn't be in the area at all. Throughout this week, the intensity of the firefight has increased. So there are not only economic problems in Ukraine, but there is a real war, no matter what it is legally most correct. At the last Euro Summit, which lasted all night, we also talked about the fact that, under no circumstances must the resolution of the Greek crisis put us to rest in relation to what is happening in Ukraine. We talked about this both in speeches and in conversations between ourselves. A large part of the discussions at Council meetings and summits are held in "corridors" where Heads of State or Government communicate with each other. The issue of Ukraine is not off the agenda at all, and it cannot be. The Eastern Partnership is exactly the same. After all, the Eastern Partnership Summit was still there; it has not been too long. I also very much agree today that the prospect of visa liberalisation must be given to all countries that can contribute to this by meeting the criteria themselves or who themselves request it and meet the requirements. So this is the very right theme raiser, we must not forget Ukraine. I also very much agree with financial support. We have also discussed other options, up to why we should not have a comprehensive plan of significantly greater volume of support for Ukraine, as was the Marshall plan. We could have something like the Marshall Plan in the context of the 21st century, which would actually support Ukraine, promise them support by providing for reforms, and help Ukrainian society. You could seriously think about that. A small but important addition is that Estonia has also significantly increased its development and humanitarian aid and all types of aid at all. This total amount is not on a global scale, but it is, in fact, about two and a half times more this year. So, of course, we are also following this situation very seriously. There are bilateral projects in a number of areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U60	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U61	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! I listen and listen to you and I try to find the point of what you're saying, but what you don't have, it's not. I remember an Estonian proverb that a big city with a mouth does not have a fly's nest with my hand. I have a specific question for you, I want to know one number and names. I have repeatedly tried to find out how many municipalities and what exactly you have agreed to accept refugees. Local authorities should, as we know, begin to accept them voluntarily.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U62	Thank you. If you don't want to hear it, you can't hear it. I believe that many of your colleagues, including your party, have already received answers to their questions. You can, too. I hope you will listen carefully. The Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Social Protection have agreed that they will visit different regions of Estonia and invite representatives from all municipalities to meetings to discuss this topic. This may even be too big a step, given that we are talking about up to 100 people coming to Estonia a year. Even if I wanted to, most municipalities don't have them. Today, by the way, there is an overview in the paper that several municipalities and companies have already expressed their own wish to receive refugees. I, too, have heard of a local government and a large company that has said that there is a very serious shortage of labour in the region, and if there are people who would be willing to live in that local government, and if the state, with the help of European funds, also provides money to clean up crappy apartments, then it would make sense. The municipality allegedly supports it. So there are also positive examples. Let us not now think that Estonian and Estonian governments are so poor that we cannot cope with 100 people a year. There are also municipalities that can think responsibly and openly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U63	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U64	Thank you. I would have liked to speak on a number of other issues, but I had to make a choice and talk about what was most important. But I agree that the reform of self-government, which has been set as one of the important priorities of the current government, is equally worth taking longer into account. I can say at this stage that the preparatory work at both the panel and the government committee has gone as planned. The starting point is that it seeks to assess the capacity of local authorities to provide the most important services to citizens and then to assess the precise area of accession or the scope of accession. We have already made some very fundamental decisions, although such a major reform will not be made in weeks. We still have to consider that this will take time. But we have made fundamental decisions in order to double the municipal merger grant, which, if you want or do not want, is of fundamental weight. Sometimes the merger of local governments creates direct objective costs, sometimes it is practical to bring local governments physically closer to each other by establishing a new interconnection, sometimes it is necessary to invest in infrastructure in order for the municipality as a whole to work better. All of this has to be done. To this end, apart from in-depth discussions involving representatives of local governments, we have decided to double this support. With regard to the specific analysis you have referred to, perhaps we would like to clarify this after the sitting. I have to check why it hasn't been sent to you. I can't see anything secret about it. I'm sure we can find a reasonable solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U65	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U66	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! A new Minister of Foreign Affairs was appointed today. My question relates to the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and embassies. You are probably aware that on 16 June, the Scottish social workers separated the three-month Estonian citizen born there from his biological parents. Parents have still not been charged with abuse, but their meetings with the child are limited. From the same day as the child's parents and children were hospitalized, they sought help from the Estonian institutions, but only after the media coverage, small developments took place in the work of the embassy. How do you assess the work of our embassy staff or officials? Do you think that the rights of a three-month Estonian citizen are protected and guaranteed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U67	Thank you. I believe that you will understand when I say that, by giving an assessment of one particular case as Prime Minister, I should have a complete overview of this. I admit that I do not have all the data relating to this case, so at least I do not consider myself an appropriate judge or judge right now. But if you want the Foreign Minister or the Prime Minister to make an assessment, I believe that we will be able to do so in a written format during the summer. That is, of course, your right, if you would like to ask about it. However, I think that, in these specific cases, there are far better ways of explaining the facts than I am, who deal with this every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U68	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U69	Thank you, Mr President, Prime Minister. In your speech on the refugee crisis, you stressed the need to re-establish border controls. In my opinion, a good example for southern Europe could be Estonia, which is very serious about setting up the border and improving border control. In my opinion, it is not just a padlock, but a matter of principle and one measure to prevent the problem from getting worse. Is it willing to consider that, at the expense of defence expenses, this is the 2% rule that we have to invest more in building the border? There is certainly a need for further technological development. Is it also acceptable to use these instruments at the expense of compulsory training for protection? Instructors' pay is one of the biggest problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U70	Thank you. In my speech, I spoke about the possible reintroduction of border controls at the internal borders of the European Union, in the opposite context, that we do not want to do so. We do not want there to be border control between Estonia and Latvia or between Estonia and Finland or when flying from Estonia to Germany. But as far as the European external border is concerned, I agree that the external border must, of course, not only play a symbolic role, just as there is a land border between Estonia and Latvia, but it must still be clear that anyone who illegally tries to cross the border will be found and caught. This is certainly what we intend to achieve on the border between Estonia and Russia. If you ask whether we should transfer part of the money for defence spending to border investment, we do not see this need at the moment. We have already reached an agreement with the three political parties in the government on a country's budgetary strategy, where investment as additional money is clearly foreseen next year, so that we have not had to reduce defence costs as a result. The defence budget may seem very large, it is a certain percentage and more than EUR 400 million. But it must be taken into account that protection planning takes place in Estonia in ten-year cycles. If you improvise very much in one year and say that now you're gonna raise 20 million from here, which is only 5% of this whole pot, it's gonna mess up the whole ten-year plan. That's what I'd try to avoid at all costs. So we have reached a consensus in the government with the Socialists and the IRL and found money in addition to the border. I think it is good news for the sector if you do not have to withdraw money from one security area to support the other. There's another way.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U71	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U72	Mr. President! Mr. Prime Minister! A few weeks ago, I listened to the Rain Radio where you were performing. We were talking about refugees in Italy and helping them. You put the emphasis on solidarity there, and you pointed out that Italian aircraft are guarding the Estonian airspace. For clarification: these are two separate organisations. One is a military organisation and operates on the basis of a separate agreement; the other is an organisation of European countries and works on the basis of another principle. Why do you cuss and bullshit on the part of the people of Estonia who may not understand everything and compare these two things? They're not comparable. As if the Italians were guarding our airline because we were supposed to help these refugees, that comparison is inappropriate to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U73	Thank you. I am afraid that your party chairman will see in my next speech the desire to explain foreign policy to you from a and b onwards. I'm really trying to do everything I can to make it seem inappropriate. You see, of course, these are formally different agreements. But it's unthinkable to say to any ally that we're here just to get help, but if they need anything, we're going home or we're not picking up the phone. Of course, NATO and the European Union are different institutions. You know, I am not going to, as long as I am Prime Minister, tell my colleague, Matteo Renz, that I am only there for Italy when they come to help us, not when they need help. I do not regard this relationship between Estonia and Italy as fundamentally possible. All the more so because what we are asked of is not too much for us. Hey, we're talking about less than a hundred people a year! Are you kidding me?! You're talking about some mass immigration, scaring people, primordial flyers, conducting meetings. Well, I don't know... You say that we should not be open to our ally, Italy, who, yes, has contributed to the air security of the Baltic States, not in Estonia, but in Lithuania, but it also strengthens our security. If Italian politicians were to think as selfishly as you are now, I once again apologise for saying so directly, then there would be no unity in Europe. Once again, I stress that if there were no European unity, if there were no European Union or NATO, then Estonia would be among the first to suffer. Let's not be so narrow-minded!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U74	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U75	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! You said earlier that unemployment in the country would not increase. Are you really not aware that large farms are being eradicated, heifers are being transported to combinates, and a dairy herd that produces a lot of produce, that pigs are being eradicated? Thus, jobs in the countryside will also be lost. What will be done to stop the process? There hasn't been anything worth mentioning in a hundred days.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U76	Thank you. It has been done and very much has been done to ensure that the Estonian economy is doing well, so that investments that create jobs come here. That's what I was talking about. But I'll make sure you get the statistics from the unemployment fund. It's always worth looking at the facts before you make an assessment. The Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund is able to show trends in quite detail by county and region. Members of Parliament must certainly be able to consult this information. I believe this will also help you correct your assessments.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U77	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U78	Thank you, manager. Good minister! I wanted to ask you a very specific question, but I have listened to your answers to your colleagues and I have to say that, unfortunately, no concrete and thorough answers have been heard. That's why I'm asking you something else. I come to your political statement. You spoke of the need for consensual foreign policy, responsibility and consideration of others' views, but then, with the same breath, you gave birth to the opposition's different views of worming and instigating and populism. If it's not arrogance, what else is it? Is that your idea of consensus? Do you really consider yourself, the government and the coalition to be infallible, so that the opposition should agree with everything without exception, including what we do not think is right or useful for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U79	Thank you. None of us are infallible, not even you. Me neither. However, I dare say that there are issues where a political point should not be taken. All the more so, this score is actually very short-lived. I'm a very young person, but I've been in politics for a very long time, and I've seen governments very closely from the Mart Laar government. I've worked with several governments. My experience with Estonian politics is that populist positions and quick scores do not sail far. The people of Estonia understand very well when they are fooled. For example, when they are told about mass immigration, although in fact only a few percent of the number of people who come to Estonia from other countries every year comes to Estonia, less than a hundred people come to Estonia. The people of Estonia will understand if they are tried to be primitive or if they want to get a very cheap popularity when they speak well. Cheap popularity comes quickly and disappears just as quickly. Therefore, I find that my proposal is neither inappropriate nor arrogant to Estonian political parties, that if we are in the strategic interest of Estonia, whether it be security policy or foreign policy, even unable to find consensus, I have accepted that our views differ greatly from your party's views, among other things, then at least we should refrain from seeking cheap popularity, especially if it is directly contrary to the interests of the Estonian state. None of us should put our party interests ahead of the interests of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U80	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Cooperation, upholding and standing up for European values are undoubtedly very important. I think we all understand that as people. But just as important, especially in a small country, is the confidence of the people in their country. Is it precisely here that you see a problem in the people's confidence in the functioning of the country and the state, in the straightforwardness and honesty of the country? If you see, is the government ready to deal with it, or should the government even have to deal with it? Do you see the problem and are you ready to deal with it and want to do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U82	Thank you very much. I very much agree that trust can still only be built on a bilateral basis. It cannot be that, while we demand that others respect European values, we are not prepared to contribute. This applies to Estonia and just as much to the Greeks. If the Greeks want solidarity from Europe, I have devoted a number of paragraphs to it in my speech, they themselves must do the things necessary to help them. They have to reform, cut unnecessary costs and say honestly that they have made mistakes, but now a new page is being turned. The reason why we are so distrustful about them is because we have seen and seen quite recently when Greek politicians, who were just elected by the people in a completely democratic way, said that they were not ready for this. The fact that they have initially opposed today in words and at night with their first actions shows that they are prepared to change their positions in a diametric way gives some hope. But we're not there yet to restore trust. It is not easy to restore confidence after the huge loss of trust that has taken place in the past six months since the Greek elections. In particular, given that, completely insensitive to their European partners, a question was put in the referendum, which neither side was in fact able to answer correctly to the end, because the question was very difficult to put, and a campaign was also made to ensure that no answer would come. I therefore believe that we must be very demanding partners, but we must still be partners. We can't turn our backs on the Greeks. I would not applaud solutions that end with the bankruptcy of one European Union and NATO country. This does not make sense for people who live in Greece or for people who live in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U83	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U84	Thank you! Good Prime Minister! In general, I share all your views and I do not have any questions about your speech. However, because of this debate that has taken place here, it is as if I have to break one of my principles a little bit. I have promised myself that I would never ask for statistics, but it might seem that way right now. Listening to these questions and to the debate here, I have a little problem. Although Europe's affairs are as internal affairs and are not directly interpreted as foreign policy, all decisions taken by a united Europe also have an impact on our foreign policy. Should we continue to remain relatively united in foreign policy, as we have so far been, or can we afford to disagree?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U85	Thank you. Yes, it is a very correct observation that, by definition, European things are our internal affairs. This idea also needs to get used to now, 11 years after we joined the European Union. It is not that there is a Europe there somewhere, and then there is Estonia here somewhere. This is one whole and Estonia has a role to play there. We are just as much a Member State of the European Union as Germany, France, Great Britain or Greece. It depends very much on us how these processes go. However, as far as the issue of foreign policy is concerned, I have already answered that part of the question. Perhaps I am too naive, perhaps there is no consensus, but try to make sure that, even if we have different views, neither the opposition nor the coalition will ever forget what is in the long-term interests of the Estonian state and the people. That shouldn't be the subject of picking up cheap popularity. That's what I'm gonna stick to.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U86	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U87	Thank you. Prime Minister! Your answers can be monitored online in addition to this hall. A attentive observer from Pärnu sent me a letter during your performance. It turned out that you were wrong to answer Liina Kersna, who asked about labour market reforms in Greece. You were wrong to claim that the new Employment Contracts Act introduced in Estonia reduced unemployment. He pointed out that Liina Malk has published an analysis in the Working Papers of Eesti Pank. This regression analysis does not establish that the Employment Contracts Act has had a positive impact on the reduction in unemployment. When you read about the Postman yesterday, you know that there was a doctoral student claiming that our unemployment was reduced simply because thousands of people have gone to work in Finland. The question is what you are doing to make sure that the 25000 Estonian citizens who, according to official data, work in Finland find a reason to return to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U88	Thank you. You see, I have studied the economy and it is impossible to make it clear to me that if all the statistics show that the number of people employed on the Estonian territory has increased significantly every year and unemployment has decreased exclusively in every region of Estonia, then in fact it is not absolutely dependent on labour law, but it simply fell from the sky to our laps, that the fact that Estonia's unemployment has been one of the fastest falling in Europe is by chance and that in some other countries it continues to grow is also pure chance. There's no way to make that clear to me. The changes in the Estonian labour market play a very important role in law, the tax environment and the wider policy of the state. Two major surveys of migration statistics have been carried out a little while, one in 2010, the other in 2013. Already in 2013, the survey showed that migration trends have changed. If a lot of work was done elsewhere in 2010, because there was simply no viable job in Estonia, then now, firstly, emigration has significantly decreased and, secondly, there are other reasons to leave. You mostly go to study, upgrade yourself, make a career, which, I think, is acceptable. After all, you have been educated outside Estonia, and I admire you for that. What can we do to ensure that there are more jobs in Estonia and that the people of Estonia do not go elsewhere from Estonia for economic reasons at all? We can pursue a policy that raises the standard of living of the people of Estonia. We must make an effort to make sure that wages in Estonia grow and catch up with Nordic wages. You can mock me just a hundred times for saying that I am not going to be satisfied until the standard of living in Estonia has reached the Nordic level. You can say it's unrealistic. But I say it's possible. There is no objective reason why the people of Estonia should be worse than Finns or Swedes. Yes, there are historical reasons why our standard of living is lower. Yes, capital accumulation is quite different here than in those countries where several generations have been able to build up businesses. We all know that, but we're catching up with them. The difference is actually narrowing. This could be reduced even more quickly, and this is what the government and Parliament must make an effort to achieve. But I refuse to accept that it is not possible that we should believe in analyses that show that nothing depends on us to stay home at all and make no decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U89	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. I'm opening negotiations. Kadri Simson, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U90	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Taavi in the garment! Ladies and gentlemen, When I listened to this statement, I remembered the position expressed by a government ally about a hundred days ago: it is very good that people expect so little from this government, because if little is expected, it will be difficult to run under the bar. The same applies to today's political statement. We didn't expect much, so it's hard to be disappointed. However, I am in a very difficult situation, because my good nursery says no battering, so it seems unfair to criticize a government with such a relatively bad start. It's not empathetic. But if you put this idea into the language of a common man, it seems that it is such a small spiteful group: first you get kicked, then you get thrown on your back and they say that he is lying down and cannot say anything back to him. Why am I talking about this? The Prime Minister's speech often mentioned that we should have a consensus. I would like to remind you that there has always been a consensus between all political parties on one issue here in the Riigikogu. This has been Estonia's defence, generally taking security policy. In the programme of the Centre Party, spending 2% of GDP on national defence was already in place before the government could do so. Similarly, highlighting the issue of security actually means quieting it down, that our government, in its domestic policy, is dealing relatively widely with over-rolling democracy and democratic rules. It was therefore quite strange to listen to the Prime Minister's admonition that we should talk about a new political culture. I would like to remind you that a few months ago, there was such a festive joint vote here, which was also called the introduction of vicious legislation, when a number of tax increases, which had not been mentioned before the elections, were pushed through by the cluster law. What new political culture are we talking about if such moves are allowed? Tomorrow will be full of a hundred days of new government action. It is therefore appropriate to recall why, as an opposition, we did not give the government a hundred days without criticism. A hundred days without criticism is not about itself. Trying to find the original provisions of a hundred days without criticism, we reach Franklin Delano Roosevelt, who became President of the United States in the midst of a major economic crisis. He said if he couldn't make a change in a hundred days, he'd fail. Certainly our government today is not in any way comparable to this, as long coalition negotiations were held, but the real solutions that would help the Estonian economy were not found. So the new coalition did not deserve a hundred days without criticism, because tax increases were put on the table, which had not been mentioned before the elections. Both the weak and powerless first hundred days than today's government has not had any previous governments in Estonia who have regained independence. It can be said that the office led by Taavi's garment has set a standard below which no future head of government will be able to descend, because a hundred days will not be held back. We heard from the Prime Minister that somewhere else, in Greece, there are bigger problems than we do. However, the biggest problem at home is that the government, which has no authority or support, has no innovative ideas or has no viable solutions to deal with the problems facing Estonia, must be responsible for the welfare of our country. The problem is also that alongside the inexperienced Prime Minister, strong opinion leaders and politicians will not be supported by the government, who will take responsibility if the Prime Minister fails to do so. Rather, the government is manned by people who themselves signal that they will sit in this position until they can. It is widely believed that this Union will not last for long. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U91	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U92	Thus, the problems of the Greek Government are a way out of internal politics for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, where the Reform Party lacks ideas. But that doesn't stop this chair from teaching the Greeks. Let me remind you that the party, which promised to catch up to rich European countries in terms of economic growth eight years ago, now recommends that we limit ourselves to what we can be sure of, perhaps accepting our economic stagnation. It is true that Taavi Rõivas promised a new Nordic country before the elections, but after the elections the new Nordic country is only referred to as fuel prices rising to Nordic levels due to tax increases. The Reform Party also avoided discussing economic issues before the elections, but the rest of the political parties in this Chamber said that the income of the Estonian people was low and at the same time the low-paid worker in Estonia was mercilessly taxed, because the tax-free part of his salary is small. This low-paid person is under great pressure to emigrate because life wants to live. Denying this does not increase the number of people seeking employment in Estonia. After the elections, the tax-free minimum was increased, but it is being distributed: EUR 16 next year and EUR 10 thereafter, while the increase in excise duties on fuel will immediately increase the prices of all goods and services. I also have not seen this government offer any agreement and support to the two parties that will have to negotiate the next year's minimum wage increase. We have come to the point that Estonia is an expensive country and that the treasury is filled in quite the same way from both poorer and richer wallets. But let's look around Europe now. Throughout history, countries have used more equal taxation in the interests of domestic peace. The Greek crisis therefore provides the Prime Minister with an excellent opportunity for a substitution action. But instead of teaching Greece, we could deal with domestic concerns. Talking about the problems in Greece is really nothing more than talk. The government knows very well that when Europe's greats make specific decisions about Greece, we do not have the right to veto them. Our money is at stake, but our say is symbolic. In 2010, the predecessors of today's Prime Minister and Minister of Finance said that the Greek aid package is an investment that allows for a decent return. At least this is not what we are talking about anymore, but we could also honestly talk about what the big financial organisations are saying. In fact, the most painful solution is the forgiveness of loans. I wish the government strength, but I think a government office with such a weak start would certainly need to be renewed. We need to admit that the Reform Party has run out of ideas, he needs a vacation on the opposition bench. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U93	On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U94	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Speaker! Mr. Prime Minister! Kadri said that a good nursery would not allow him to be overly critical. So I'm sorry about my parents, but I have to be more critical. More or less a hundred days of the political PR stunt that the Prime Minister's performance today meant was, in my opinion, rich in taste and empty of substance. Those words describe the last hundred days. What, then, has the government excelled in three months? People who talk about economic reality in the context of Greece were working on raising taxes. They are explaining that, even though we have had an effective immigration policy for the last 15 years and accepted by everyone, this is no longer the case, and they are also working on increasing participation in Greece's bankruptcies. I'll take it one by one. The problem with Greece is only partly because the Greek state is governed by Greek law. The Greek state has been under Greek rule for over a hundred years. The real problem is that, on the basis of pure eurodogma, more and more loans have been imposed on Greece. This is partly due to the fact that the Germans have launched the euro area with a crooked scheme and 80% of German GDP comes from other Europeans buying German goods. This is what they buy from German banks with borrowed money. When we talk about economic reality, it is not sustainable. This problem has been addressed by a number of aid packages. The third 'investment package', which is currently under discussion, is reminded once again that there should have been no more than one in Europe, certainly not last, because Greece's debt is so high that it simply cannot be repaid. In such a situation, come to Parliament to talk about solidarity... Basically'solidarity' has become a dirty word in Estonian political lexica. We have no reasonable reason to help put Greece in an even more difficult situation by spending Estonian taxpayers' money. This happens when we go along with the package that is now being hatched. But as the Prime Minister emphasised, he has not yet said that the Estonian Government considers this necessary. They're probably hoping somebody else might run this thing over somewhere. The way the Reform Party responds to criticism, however, is particularly tasteless, beginning to label the opposition. We understand that this is a European custom. That is exactly what is happening in Europe. People who talk about defending national interests are labeled racist, hate speech keepers, closed up backwards who don't understand anything. The Prime Minister told us about how a political point should not be plucked in the name of national and national interests. But if we think that national and national interests are what we defend, then this political point comes to us by itself, not because we went to pick it up. Ruining your political opponents by tagging them, unable to give a specific answer to any question within almost two hours, this is not the political culture we should be lectured about here. The question of which municipalities then are those who have volunteered to accept immigrants, we never received an answer. In answer, there was only one round story. In answer to the question of how much Estonia has now given to Greece, which we could lose, hundreds of millions were spoken about. I would remind you that our party, too, categorically opposed the granting of hundreds of millions, because already in 2012 it was clear from economic logic that Greece would not be able to serve its loans and sooner or later Greece's debts would have to be restructured. It was ignored. Instead, Greece's debt ratio has been increased to almost 200% of GDP. This amount has never been repaid in the history of the modern economy, ever. Now they want us to increase even more the money that we are risking in Greece. What for? There can be no solidarity here because Greece has received euro grants from Estonia for decades longer. Just like everyone else in the European Union. We do not have any obligations or any moral duty to help bring the Greek people to their knees, what this aid package is doing. The solution would be debt restructuring, debt write-off and recovery. But there is absolutely no need to hear about it in Europe. That's why we see crazy political solutions that ignore the rules of the economy. I was also very disturbed by a brief position in the Prime Minister's speech, where he said that all Estonian parliamentary parties in the European Union Affairs Committee approved the current immigration policy of the government. It's not quite accurate. All Estonian parliamentary parties approved the government's view that immigration must be voluntary. If it's voluntary, we'll decide who comes here and when and how many people there are. If it is not voluntary, the government will exceed the mandate given to it by ELAK. It's as simple as that. Now for defence, which was briefly touched here. The Conservative People's Party has repeatedly been very critical of both the present Minister of Defence and the Prime Minister. It is obvious to us that the government does not really understand how critical our state of defence is and is still based on plans that were put in place before the crisis in Ukraine. This is not an adequate course of action. We need to rethink these plans as a matter of urgency and put a lot of things forward there. If someone has to say that there is no money for this, I would ask that it is not the same ministers or the same government who have found hundreds of millions of euros without asking any questions to drown money in Greece like a bottomless hole. First of all, we should be dealing with our own national defence, only then could we be dealing with how to show solidarity in the event of a situation in Europe's periphery. One way or another, it must be repeated that the current government has no moral authority to do anything. The sooner this government disbands, the better for Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U95	Andres Herkel, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U96	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! First of all, let me remind you why we're here together today. There is no doubt that there is no such format as the one hundred-day report of the government in the Constitution or the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. There is just a little funny provision in the Constitution that says that the government cannot take office without taking an oath before the Riigikogu. So I don't know if the fact that it has been used in this way speaks of some kind of political skill or something else. But in itself, given the events that are taking place in Europe, both in the Greek crisis and in the refugee crisis, in fact, the more the government talks, the better it will open up its views and explain it to the public. In this sense, thank you to the Prime Minister. These experiments could be more and they could perhaps be a little better and more meaningful than today. First of all, I certainly cannot agree with what was here as an introduction, as if understanding the geopolitical location of Estonia, openness and tolerance were the monopoly, exclusive right and exclusive competence of some government departments, which opposition parties do not understand. I would protest against such a statement on behalf of the Free Party. We understand perfectly that the problems that the government is facing are partly due to far-reaching and larger developments and cannot be really managed by our government. However, the government will be able to develop a more effective, active and stronger foreign policy, which we also expect from the new Foreign Minister. But on the Greek question, yes, the Free Party also takes a different view. I think it is time for Europe to make it clear to itself and clearly admit that very gross mistakes have been made. The first rude mistake was certainly Greece's adoption of the euro zone in its own time. We didn't have a part in this. We faced this problem later when we had reached the European Union. We acted like good faith. In 2012, there were very sharp debates. We have joined these aid packages, but it is not really clear at the moment that there is any way that we can come out of this black hole. Rather, the question is what are the losses of European creditors. This is a question where, I think, we have not only the power to deal with the public opinion of European countries, including Estonia, on the problems of Greece. Because when Greece put the issue of the referendum, as it has put it, apologise very much, we too have the right to say that it is no longer appropriate or sustainable to provide assistance in this way, and it is not pleasing to our society. Now the refugee issue. The emotional nature of this debate has scared us, I would say, seriously. The radical forms it has taken in Estonian society at times show that this is not an easy question, but we must certainly understand this reaction. We must realise that this is also due to the dramatic experiences of the Soviet period, when there really was mass immigration. Our society has not really come up with these problems yet. The sensitivity of society must certainly be understood when the European Commission started talking about more than a thousand mandatory refugees that Estonia should receive. There is no predisposition to xenophobia here. I think we're a long way from that. Individual examples cannot be generalised. I'm asking for more time too!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U97	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U98	As I said earlier, the government could rather praise the fact that the number of refugees we will have to deal with in the future is now smaller. However, the problem lies at the root of southern Europe and must be dealt with vigorously. It also seems to me that our internal communication has not worked best to address this problem. Now I come to these hundred days and internal policy issues. I, like most of the others here, have been asked what grade I would give to the government. In domestic policy, I would miss this grade, but given the difficult security policy situation, I am a long way from the opinion that the Estonian Government is bad and cannot be any worse. But there are many domestic political failures. You are talking about responsible fiscal policy. This tax package, which was adopted here merely to meet the conflicting electoral promises between the various parties, is very far from responsible fiscal policy. It would be best if you turned back this package, or this notorious cluster law, or if Estonia had the prerequisites to reverse these questions. The Free Party Group has started this today by presenting a draft which specifically applies to VAT on accommodation establishments. We know very well that there are plenty of people in the government coalition who are critical of these points, and a month ago they could not even vote on our amendments. Administrative reform. Mr Prime Minister said that the first hundred days will increase the belief that administrative reform is possible. I'm sorry, I haven't increased that faith in me. Monika Haukanõm sent you a written question, which you answered smoothly on two pages, so that you do not answer us anything about the direction in which this administrative reform is going. We will definitely repeat this question. But if in a hundred days you hear only vagueness and nothing concrete, then, excuse me very much, this is either going in the wrong direction or it is finally too little time to carry it all out at all. I also want to mark a promise to move towards a more competitive business environment. Those things that are going to actually improve the situation of small business in Estonia, we are very much waiting, but we do not see them. Finally, to be honest, we welcome those points that I do not know what motives the Social Democratic Party has highlighted when it comes to opening a coalition agreement. Estonia certainly needs a democracy package. We're talking about open lists. It is also important to talk about the funding of political parties, not just about the limit on electoral costs. Certainly, the increase in the tax-free minimum is also a much more decent measure than what you have offered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U99	Priit Sibul, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U100	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I congratulate the new Foreign Minister who took the oath today and wish him luck. Secondly, Kadri's introduction and statement that there is a consensus on the security issue between Estonian political parties is difficult to believe and it is strange to hear from the representative of the party whose chairman cannot say whether Crimea was occupied or released. But now from this day forward. The last days and weeks have been at the centre of the political life of Europe, including Estonia, the Greek debt crisis. However, I would remind you that in reality we held the same discussion in this very Chamber only a few years ago when we decided that Estonia would participate in the EFSF and ESM for the countries that have fallen into the debt trap. I have asked myself many times what has changed in Greece in the meantime. It is true that in autumn 2014, Greece's successful exit from the programme in 2015 had seemed to be real in the air at that time. The economic forecast predicted an increase of 2.9% for Greece this year and 3.7% for the following year. Today, however, the Greeks have turned on reverse and not just economic indicators. Compared to a few years ago, the power of the neo-communists, led by the populist Tsipras, has changed. It has changed that their transport has been subject to previous agreements with creditors. It has changed that, under the leadership of former Minister of Finance, Varoufakis, poker was played with the rest of the European Union in the hope of bluffing others. However, playing in this style is not part of a European political culture, but is evidence of a lack of responsibility and sense of reality. Unlike the representatives of the Greek Government, the leaders of other countries have behaved with restraint and patience, as there are not only solidarity but also integration and security issues that can affect the future of Europe as a whole. However, Tsipra and the former Greek Minister for Finance have used this fact to blackmail in their poker game. My question is where Europe draws the border. More importantly, where we draw the line. Solidarity is one of the pillars of the successful functioning of the European Union, but I believe that the fundamental principle is that solidarity cannot consist in imposing it on anyone. The solidarity that we are talking about must be two-way, or there is no solidarity. The Greeks were fooled and elected a government of populists and neo-communists. Ten days ago, in a referendum, the Greeks said no to Europe's helping hand. It does not seem to me that cooperation is sought or that help is needed. In the last of these difficulties, they adopted a legislative package imposed in Parliament, but they gave speeches that do not build trust. Poker continues. Although the recent acceptance of Cipras to the start of negotiations has been interpreted as the European Union's victory over the Greek Communists, let me remain sceptical here. The Greeks have repeatedly acted as a wordbreaker. It is not excluded that acceptance is simply a step towards the rapid availability of working resources. Let me remind you of the contributions we make to this process. We participated in a second programme in Greece, funded through the EFSF. Finally, EUR 130.9 billion was disbursed to Greece as a grant loan from the programme. In fact, our guarantee for Greece is EUR 330 million, plus an interest of EUR 370 million. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U101	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U102	Good guys in the hall! Today we cannot and do not have to take decisions, but it is possible that in almost a month's time we will have to vote on whether we continue with'solidarity' or not. In my opinion, the following days will be a key issue here, which will show whether the laws adopted by Greece at night will or will continue to be implemented by wrestling, word-breaking and poker. If they had to choose the latter option, there would be no question and it would be difficult for Estonia to help the Greek Communists. The other red line of the IRL is that under no circumstances must we support any kind of debt reduction or writing them into the chimney. It is also important that Estonia should not make additional budget commitments to help Greece. Finally, I repeat that a single European Union and a eurozone are essential in the current security situation. We see that there is also a security crisis too much for Europe. We see a difficult situation and its consequences in Ukraine. These effects also extend to us. We do not need another problem or a deepening of it, but we need to look for and provide solutions. That is why it must be clear that when the Riigikogu meets in an emergency session, we must see that words and decisions have been followed by actions in Greece, and the light that shines at the end of the tunnel today is still a ray of light and hope, not the lights of a speeding high-speed train. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U103	Jevgeni Ossinovski, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, on behalf of the Social Democrats, I wish Marina Kaljuranna success and strength in the Foreign Minister's office. Speaking now about the situation in Greece, and also about the refugees that have been mentioned here today, I actually see a common and worrying line on both issues. In fact, isolation and certain encapsulation moods are strengthening in the Estonian public. They say let this Greece go is not our concern. They say why we have to accept refugees, let other countries deal with it. I've even heard of the notion that let these unhappy people drown, starve, die, they're not our people. Such a reaction and a desire to close windows in a sense is socially and, to some extent, historically understandable. We must also shake our heads because politicians have not yet been able to provide clear enough answers to many of the people's questions. At the same time, I am convinced that Estonia can only succeed as an open and tolerant country that is actively involved in finding solutions to international problems. Of course, Estonia can only succeed in a united and strong European Union. Speaking of Greece, we cannot, of course, rejoice that Greece's economic situation is as it is today, that the country is unable to cope with its problems on its own. Of course, we cannot rejoice if the agreement has not been observed sooner. However, this does not mean, in my view, that we should submit to the desire for revenge and let the entire country and the people fall off the edge of the cliff by punishing the Greek Government. The weakness of one Member State is, in fact, the weakness of the entire European Union, as well as Estonia's weakness. There should be no illusions that Greece's departure from the euro area would not have any significant economic or political impact on our country. Estonia has no alternatives to a strong Europe, at least no positive alternatives. After Greece has left, it is clear that questions will also be asked in Spain and Portugal, so that these countries can also send the whole international community and commitments to the moon. It would certainly increase the desire of the British people to say no to Europe in a referendum. Such a domino effect would undoubtedly result in a smaller, weaker Europe on the inside and less important Europe internationally, and this is not a good perspective for Estonia. Of course, the countries that have contributed to Greece must get their money back. But let us ask ourselves whether it is more likely that the Greek economy will grow again and the situation will stabilise, or if Greece goes bankrupt, whether if Greece remains in the European family or if it drifts towards the reefs as a sinking ship. Therefore, if solidarity is not a sufficient argument, we should also consider Estonia's own interests. Unfortunately, on the issue of refugees, mass immigration has been hopelessly confused in the public domain, and refugees fleeing from war brutality and discrimination. Do we really tell a person who's been running from death for months that we don't want to help him, to go back to death? I won't tell. Of course, the ability of the Estonian state to integrate refugees must be taken into account; opportunities must be sought for people to find work, learn the language, integrate into our society. However, just to say that we do not want them, I do not think we can. One more minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U105	Thank you. I think that every Member of the Government, as well as every Member, must deal with this not only because it is right, but also because it is a moral duty for all of us. I guess that's why we've been chosen here. I think that the most right and logical way to build trust in people is to talk about things, even on critical issues honestly, even if it is unpopular in the short term. There is no need to express popular views quickly, as it is later understood that this was only done to take this small point away quickly. Indeed, I have been asked several times why I am talking about refugees, Greece and all other issues where there is not much to be expected of. By the way, the economic crisis was also a very difficult issue in 2009, but then we were not afraid to talk about it and offer solutions. I do not think that we should be afraid now either of Greece or of the refugee crisis. On the contrary, we should talk more about them, discuss these issues among ourselves and also with the Estonian people. At any meeting where you can go during the summer, these topics should be discussed honestly with the people of Estonia. I meant it very sincerely when I said that I thank you for the opportunity to discuss these, in fact not too much popularity. I believe that, from a far-reaching perspective, a responsible approach to these issues can be more popular for all of us. The people of Estonia are smart enough to appreciate it correctly. The crises also come independently of us, and the government, together with Parliament, must deal with them responsibly. There are not always simple and cheap solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U106	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U107	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Speaking quickly about the Italian airmen and solidarity in NATO, I recall that Estonia has fulfilled all its obligations and has been very solidarity with NATO allies. We are one of four countries that contribute 2% of GDP to defence expenditure. We have been loyal to missions in Iraq, Afghanistan and the Central African Republic. We have fulfilled all our obligations in NATO. You emphasized and put it to our heart that we should be statesmanly. I am truly saddened, even though I am even younger than you, that in a few decades' time, the present Prime Minister will not be viewed as a true statesman. Now to my question. In Europe, countries that are not very enthusiastic about the current development of the European Union are gaining great popularity. Are you in favour of increasing direct democracy and listening to the opinion of the people to a greater extent, as would be the case for a referendum on membership of the European Union within a few years?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U108	Thank you. The direct answer to your question is no. I do not think it is right that we should start asking this again in a referendum. The people of Estonia have made their decision. Estonia has a great deal to gain from the European Union and from the unity of Europe. We have just as much to gain from NATO membership. Even if the values are left aside, I understand that my and your perceptions of values, statesmanship and responsibility are different sides of the same coin or diametrically different, even if they are left aside and look only at the most vulgar, most rational, measurable phenomena in money, apples and bananas, I say that even then, no matter how, it is impossible to prove that Estonia's membership of the European Union or NATO would be other than very useful. Even then. But the world is much more versatile; it is not only monetaryly measurable. In my opinion, Estonia belongs to Europe without any doubt, Estonia must be a full member of Europe and Estonia must also be a dignified member of Europe. Not that we're only going to get the rake ourselves, but when some of our important allies need a little help from us, which we can clearly deliver and that does nothing to ourselves, doesn't take the piece off, as they say, we say, no, no way. I'd be ashamed of myself. I'll be honest with you, I couldn't do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U109	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U110	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! As a opposition politician, I should maintain my sense of criticism and scepticism about your government, but as an honest person, I must point out that you have made a very good choice in choosing a new Foreign Minister. It has recently been quite an exceptional phenomenon that the ministry is placed under the leadership of a specialist rather than a loyal party politician. But it makes me careful that Marina Kaljurand is not only a highly respected diplomat, but she knows Russia, the conditions there, she knows the people who do it personally, the people of the higher power. Aren't you afraid that his actions may cause our relations with Russia to improve? What are you going to do to keep this from happening?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U111	Thank you. Yeah, well, which of us doesn't want to have a good relationship with all our neighbors, but who of us is so naive that we think it's just a matter of getting along. We understand perfectly that we will not be able to get along well with Russia until Russia has stopped attacking its neighbours. As long as this policy, which we have seen in Georgia, Transnistria, Crimea and Eastern Ukraine, is in force, we cannot turn a blind eye and say that we see nothing, we are blind to the fact that we live friendlyly in the Davit Družno. You can't do that. Of course, we want to be friends with all our neighbors, but right now it's not behind us. This is about Russian politics, the choices of the Russian leadership. Unfortunately, we cannot accept these choices. The war kills people and leaves them homeless. As an independent and dignified country, Estonia cannot turn a blind eye here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U112	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U113	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Greece has made Europe's economic and political weaknesses visible. We learned from the Estonian proverb that the debt is foreign, Greece has little to do with the debt, that is the problem of the giver. You discussed European values at the beginning of your presentation. What, then, do you think are the European values in Greece, which is using and paying back these loans, and which European values do the European Union follow when granting loans, when determining their use and forcing Greece to change laws? Your personal opinion simply.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U114	One minute more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U115	If we say so, we should leave not only the European Union but also the United Nations. This is certainly possible, but I do not think we want this Estonia. Let us also think that we are asking the Italians to come here with their planes and teams to secure our airspace. We are grateful if the European taxpayer invests in our school network, science, roads and hospitals through the European Union budget. But if Italy has a problem with integrating refugees, let us say that this is not what we want, let us see how we manage. In my opinion, this is not responsible. To sum it up. There are undoubtedly many unpleasant and ugly things happening in the world, but they will not be undone when we close our eyes. So let us keep our eyes open and try to find the best way for Estonia to succeed, of course, in a united and strong Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-07-16_U116	The negotiations have ended and the extraordinary plenary session of the Riigikogu on 16 July 2015 is also closed. Closure of the sitting at 3.39 p.m.
