ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Checking for presence. There's 48, 53 missing. The following members of the Government will take part in the Question Time today: Minister for Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski, Prime Minister of Defence Hannes Hanso and Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal. Last day ten members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask the question, so I will give you one additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U2	The first questioner is Mailis Reps and the question is for the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, who is in charge of the Prime Minister's duties today. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U3	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good for Mr Ossinovski's Prime Minister! Understandably, this is a question of teachers' salaries, because if we look at the 2016 budget for the Ministry of Education and Research, the total reduction will be 2.9%. It is understandable that Jürgen Ligi, the current Minister of Education and Research, is very emotional in wishing to raise teachers' salaries. At the same time, he has said that he has too few supporters in the government, including you, Mr Ossinovski, despite your so-called educational past. That is why I have the question: at what other expense do you intend to raise teachers' salaries so that the minimum wage levels will rise in 2016?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U4	Thank you. To blame me for not supporting the increase in teachers' salaries is certainly very strange. I believe that this is a priority in the field of education and, in order to fix it, I have spent quite long hours with the programme of action of the Government of the Republic. As a result, the programme of the government union has included that in the next few years we should reach the long-awaited ideal level of 120% of the Estonian average. We are now close to the average wage level, which is why in the coming years additional resources for teachers' pay will certainly need to be allocated. In the context of the next budget, the government decided not to make a general wage increase in the public sector. Wages will rise next year only in priority areas, one of which will be teachers. The average increase in the payroll is 4%. Of course, this means that the Ministry of Education, for whom raising teachers' salaries is a priority, is seeking more resources within its administration. You know very well that last year, during the Riigikogu procedure, we managed to find extra money to raise teachers' salaries. As far as I know, the current Minister of Education is also making an effort to add to the agreed money.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U5	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! If we look at the plan to raise teachers' salaries to 20% higher than the national average, to 120%, then teachers' salaries should be EUR 1556 in 2019. At the same time as we look at the budget for next year, unfortunately, it does not reflect an annual wage increase of 14%. If the Riigikogu decides that funds for support services are not taken away from local governments precisely because at present this so-called real estate component can be used for support services, and if the Riigikogu does not decide to abruptly terminate the operating grant for private schools in one year, you will see that there are still places where the money will be found next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U7	As I said, the primary task in this context is for each ministry to look at its administration and to try to find additional resources there. How many of them can be found within the administration of the Ministry of Education, I can't answer that. The current Minister of Education and Science can certainly answer. Of course, the changes you have referred to in the financing of education are topics which have a certain effect in the context of teachers' pay. The Minister of Education has expressed his wish to come up with certain initiatives. They have not yet been discussed in the government, and the procedure of the Riigikogu is still pending. In principle, indeed, in order to reach the desired target by 2019, we should move in the coming years at least 10% of the wage increase rate, as has been the case in the last few years. Next year, I'm a little pessimistic, because the budgetary position is quite tense, let's say so. The overall increase in wage money is quite low in the state budget. But if next year the step should be shorter, then, of course, in the year after next or the year after that, it should be longer. But as I said, as far as I know, the Minister of Education and Science is actively engaged in finding extra money for teachers' pay. If reasonable solutions are found, I believe that both the government and the Riigikogu will support them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U8	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U9	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. You are probably not aware that yesterday the Minister of Finance handed over the state budget to the Riigikogu, i.e. it was handed over earlier, but yesterday was the first reading. At what cost do you think it is possible to raise teachers' salaries now? According to current estimates, even the teacher's minimum wage remains below the average wage in Estonia. How do you imagine, in the budgetary process, where the extra money will be found? What do you think about taking investment money from local governments and public support from private schools? Is this the solution that raises teachers' pay to the average level in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U10	There are many ways to increase teachers' salaries. Firstly, the government allocates central amounts to the administration to raise wages, and within it a certain differentiation can be made. In addition, more resources can be found in administrative areas, transferred from other activities to the pay of teachers. And it is also possible, as last year showed, to find additional money in the Riigikogu to raise teachers' salaries. I am not in the position today to be able to tell you what is the plan of the Ministry of Education on this matter. I know they're working for it. In the next month or two, we will probably find out what the plan is and what the pay increase will be next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U11	Thank you. When Question Time began, the President said that he would give an opportunity to ask a question. I shall finish the first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U12	The next question is for Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U13	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We have received information that the Ministry of Defence intends to spend a significant amount of the state budget next year in order to promote anti-mine control in Estonia. In our view, in a situation where we have a whole range of other capabilities that are incomplete or even undeveloped, we can mention, for example, coastal protection, it would literally be a waste of money. If earlier this could be justified by participating in missions, it is now clear that Estonia has been involved in so many missions over the years, they have also suffered blood loss, so that we probably still need to explain to our allies why we do not make these expenses. We're not going to be able to develop the sea capacity we can count on anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U14	Question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U15	The question is this: do you think it is possible to channel this money from the state budget now to develop other capabilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U16	Thank you for your question. The short answer is I don't. In replying further, I would say that the Defence Forces Development Plan we have put together, which was approved by the Government in 2013 and which is in force until 2022, indeed envisages this investment of some EUR 10 million each year over the next three years. In fact, we're not increasing our mine control capability, we're keeping it. Indeed, as has been mentioned, it is very important that, alongside what these bases can do in Estonia's own waters, they work with their allies. Usually one ship is out at a time, often outside the Baltic Sea, on the Atlantic Ocean. This is the kind of niche capacity with which we contribute to NATO cooperation. It is a promise that we have made and that we intend to fulfil. I will also respond to the fact that the defence budget will go through very strong next year, as I say, a development leap, a road-to-defence budget will rise by 9%, or EUR 449 million, i.e. an increase of 37 million, and precisely firepower. While we are talking about this, there will be very big changes to the third generation anti-tank systems of the Javelins, infantry combat vehicles CV90 from the Netherlands, etc. So this investment will certainly remain in force, and I believe that it will be signed today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U17	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U18	Thank you. The answer was correct in every way. However, I would point out that the plan adopted in 2013 is probably no longer quite competent at the moment, as the international situation has clearly deteriorated in the meantime. Still, I ask again whether there is such flexibility in the Ministry of Defence to make corrections and redirect this money to beach defence, for example. It's almost undeveloped now, yet it's our longest section of the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U19	Thank you. As I've already said, we're acting on plans, but the plans are being kept under review. Indeed, protection plans are still being re-examined every four years within the 10-year development plan. By the end of 2016, this ten-year plan has also been re-examined, and certainly very big decisions must be taken again in the coming period, namely firepower, perhaps mid-earth anti-aircraft systems, perhaps tank procurement. It's a decision-making place. But this ability we have, we can't just blow it to scrap right now. It has therefore been decided that it is justified to maintain the same capacity at a very up-to-date level. These ships, which we are talking about, were acquired in the 1990s and the technology has become obsolete, so we will definitely continue to invest. If, at times, there is a need for a response and a need for flexibility, such things cannot certainly be done overnight in the field of defence. All this requires very serious work, analysis, commitment, and all supporting structures must be built up. We'll continue on the same course.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U20	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U21	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! You've been in your new job for a little while now. I have a question in two sides. First of all, you speak very confidently, you know exactly what needs to be done in the decades to come. Have you had time to bring yourself up to speed? You were just a well-known traveler. Secondly, I would like to ask what impression you have of the Department of Defense's accounts.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U22	Thank you. Have I come to catch up? I think there are thousands of details in the Department of Defense, just like every other ministry. I don't think any person on their own is gonna be able to catch up on everything for a very long time. This requires a strong institution, staff, departments, heads of department, chancellors, deputy chancellors to ensure that the machinery is fully and fully operational. I'm telling you, in the field of defence, our ministry is extremely professional. And I don't understand what the question of accounting is, and with it, everything is in very good shape at the Department of Defense.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U23	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U24	The next question is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U25	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. On Monday, when we listened together to the Auditor General, we once again stated that we do not have a clear view of which state companies we need and which ones should be sold, which ones should be placed on the stock market, in which countries could end the state's participation, etc. As a minister, I hear you have taken up this problem. It has been read, for example, about the idea of managing through sectoral management companies. However, businesses have doubted whether this would produce results in a situation where the management of public undertakings is still politicised. My question: whether and when does the coalition intend to depoliticise the councils of the rest of the state enterprises besides the Port of Tallinn? I hope you don't have to wait for another scandal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U26	Honourable Riigikogu! Good questioner! Indeed, the State is reviewing its ownership policy as a whole for all state-owned private companies. It's the Ministry of Finance. The White Paper on Ownership Policy should come in November and, probably, before the end of this year, we can all read it in some form. We have a close cooperation with our good colleague, Sven Sester. People who work in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications have participated in analyses before, these are the same analysts who have taken part in the earlier Raasukes report and in the creation of a new holding company. They are now also taking part in the creation of the White Paper on Property Policy. As far as the holding company is concerned, yes, the compositions of the councils are becoming smaller, especially on the basis of officials and experts. The political input, or social feedback, should come from the board of directors of the holding company. I have also said in the past that there should be people with different skills, including business law experts, people with experience in infrastructure construction, why not people with experience in government or parliament, including current experience, I would not rule out one or the other. Obviously, in the case of corporate governance, as Mr Raasuke and Mr Veskimägi have said, this is not about politicians. Politicians should formulate this expectation. Taavi Veskimägi, in Elering's example, has said that he rather expects the company's board to have those who formulate input. Raasuke has also said and pointed out that problems are not with politicians whose background is known, but with others. I think a healthy balance will ensure the best result.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U27	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U28	Thank you. Enn Meri and Vello Väinsalu have proposed in one article an idea to bring together all state-owned companies and holdings in a single organisation. They called it a foundation for the management of state assets, whose board could operate independently of coalitions, and considered that boards of state companies should have a longer life than government coalitions at all. It was also proposed that a competence centre could be set up to allow you to reach the councils with specialists in the field you mentioned. Have you read this article, and what do you think of this idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U29	Thank you. Yeah, I've seen it. I haven't read their work in full detail, but I know the idea. I would say that the idea itself is not new, it has been discussed before. There are countries where, in fact, the management of certain holdings is concentrated in one place. We looked a little further than our holding companies, because there are also legislative obstacles why some companies cannot be controlled by one, at least not in the European judicial area. We have also looked further, and we should put together not only different companies in one place, but also create added value in a certain value chain. We are thinking, in particular, of the ownership of infrastructure in the economic and communication fields and, in fact, of trade flows, passenger flows. So we went one step further from there and we are also trying to create a commercial holding company for the state as owner, the taxpayer as owner. It will then be possible to review what activities the state must have in the first place. As far as the duration of the Council's activities is concerned, I say instinctively, it has also been discussed in forums and conferences. It is somewhat problematic when the managers of a state company or any company exceed everyone on the board in terms of their competence. This is somewhat inevitable for businesses, because the law prohibits companies in the same area from being in the Council. Unfortunately, no journalist is so competent, no politician is so competent that he will come and open all the boxes immediately. There must also be competence in the public service, in the ministries. Energy competence is required in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, some other field of expertise in another ministry. So, yes, all of this needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U30	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U31	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I really sincerely hope that you will not only wait for the white book to be guided from there, but that state-manly wisdom will come first. Unfortunately, I saw this experience that at the moment there was a depoliticisation of one of the Councils, but these same politicians moved to the next councils. Personally, I don't think it's a good practice. But my question is whether it is not intended to involve depoliticised councils in the sphere of politicians. In the sense that we have committees and could do more work through the Committee on Sectoral Policy, not to send politicians directly to the Council, but to practice more inclusive governance.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U32	Thank you. I'm not sure I got all the nuances right. If you couldn't, we can continue the debate later. I, as I said before, and as Veskimägi, Raasuke and many other people have said, would certainly not mark politicians as the source of the problem. The political input, especially in the governance of state-owned strategic holdings, is undoubtedly important and necessary. Indeed, the form in which this is done is that of Parliament, of the level of government, of the public service and of experts. If you have described that there should necessarily be a political council, then there are also problems. This is also what Raasuke has referred to, I remember when he went to our group in his own time, too, that possible conflict of interest issues have come about primarily because of companies. However, entrepreneurial experience is exactly what we expect in managing and managing state enterprises. I think we're looking for a balance, let's not label any parties. It is certainly inclusive governance, the wisdom of committees and Parliament, as well as the wisdom gathered in the public service and in business, that makes it possible to better govern the councils.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U34	Next, Martin Helme will ask Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, in his duties as Prime Minister. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U35	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. During yesterday's budget debate, we finally found out the concrete amounts that the budget for next year has planned to spend on immigrants or refugees. 0.36 million in the Ministry of Education, 2.6 million in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and 0.26 million in the Ministry of Social Affairs, a total of 3.22 million. At the same time, 3.9 million more money has been set aside, or just as much or even more money, without a specific label. Can we conclude from this that the number of refugees that has now been brought to Estonia next year will actually double over the next year or what should be taken of the money that has been set aside?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U36	Thank you. First of all, however, I will adjust the definitions, as usual, when dealing with this issue. We're talking about refugees, not immigrants. The government has put together a concrete action plan describing the activities of different institutions and ministries in the event of reception of refugees. Refugees, after they have settled in Estonia and participated in the adaptation programme, will add value to the Estonian economy and society. Experience in many countries shows that receiving refugees has a positive effect on society, including an economically positive effect. Indeed, in the first stage, adoption entails certain costs. These will be accompanied, as you said, by the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Education with regard to education and the Ministry of Social Affairs with regard to the provision of social services. The Government of the Republic has planned a reserve of a certain amount, about the size of what you said, for ministries for these activities. The cost actually incurred by the various ministries, we cannot say that at the moment, because it depends on the specific people, on the specific activities and on the services they need. But the order of magnitude is basically correct, and these amounts are separated from the government reserve. In addition, support from the European Union, such as integration measures, is also planned. So I do not think it makes sense to count separate euros. We'll do exactly what we need to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U37	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U38	Thank you. I'd really like to adjust the terms. Every refugee is also an immigrant. We can also say a foreigner, we can also say a traveler, but in any case, every person who arrives in Estonia is an immigrant. I'd like to ask you that. You said that the positive experience of many countries shows both economic and overall positive effects. Please, give us concrete examples of positive economic and social effects. I cannot, of course, begin to count now, but I can say that there are certainly more negative effects to put aside, both in economic and security terms, as well as a number of cultural problems and so on. But maybe you'll tell us about the positive effects.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U39	Thank you. Of course, there are problems with the reception of refugees, there are risks. For example, if integration measures fail, social concerns can indeed arise. In some countries, it has indeed appeared. However, if you look at the contribution of these people, mostly those who are active and able to work, the effect has been positive in practically all countries. I can also give you references to research on this, you can read more about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U40	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U41	Dear Minister, Certainly, the terms need to be precise. And I stress that all those who have reached Europe have come illegally as immigrants. There is a methodology to determine whether they are refugees. But immigrants have arrived. Speaking of the money you think of the amount allocated, 3.9 million, put under the Government of the Republic's reserve fund in case it is necessary and not to come out with the current amount. We understand logically that 3.22 million are planned for 550 people to be admitted within two years. Consequently, EUR 3.9 million may well well be considered as an increase in the number of people. There have also been speculations in the European Commission that in the spring they will come back to the same issue to distribute new figures. Is 3.9 million euros meant to increase the number of people admitted to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U42	Thank you. Firstly, the EUR 3.2 million mentioned by you and the questioner is a figure that I cannot say in detail. Because the discussions and documents that have been submitted to me still operate with the sum of the reserve of the Government of the Republic. I believe the same 3.2 million is actually part of what we're talking about. But, as I said, the Estonian state is doing exactly what it needs to do when it comes to receiving refugees, so that people can get their lives in place in Estonia and the integration measures work. Once again, regardless of how someone has arrived in Europe, we are talking about people who have received international protection in Europe, so that they have been recognised as persons in need of international protection because they cannot return to their home country. In this sense, it is a different group of people than those who simply want to come to another country on a better salary. In the European Union, procedural rules have also been agreed quite strictly, who is a refugee and who is not. The government's estimated potential costs for refugees are based on the number of eligible refugees that have now been agreed. We certainly do not know how the refugee crisis in Europe will be resolved in the future, but as of now, we have operated on the figures that have been agreed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U43	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U44	And the next question is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal. Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U45	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The current Estonian Post, or Omniva, is a state company that belongs to all of us, the people of Estonia. Omniva's main objective is to ensure national postal services for residents of Estonia in particular. Thus, as a public undertaking, Omniva pursues a different purpose than any other private company. It is important to understand that when a private company thinks only of profit, the welfare of the population must take precedence for a public enterprise and only then will it be profit. That's my question. Why did you come up with a plan to sell the Estonian Post or Omniva?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U46	Thank you, good questioner! I have expressed my conviction that all state-owned private companies do not necessarily have to own 100%. There are two things among them that you might tie together. One party is the provision of universal postal service, which is due to the obligations imposed on Eesti Post. Eesti Post fulfils its obligations according to how the state puts them. The other side is the logistics business and parcel delivery business, which could be called Omniva in general. The logistics business is in no way the core function of the state. Now Omniva is clearly developing in this, perhaps at some point it needs a partnership, perhaps also some part of the stock exchange, so that it can accelerate development. You don't have to mess up these two things. I have seen an attempt to talk about it before, but some politicians still tend to talk about the fact that when the parcel business becomes parcel machine-based, closing post offices is a huge problem. I confirm that Eesti Post will not close any post offices that are actively used. But there are many post offices that are no longer used. As you'll notice about your affairs, sending simple letters, and all of this will be reduced. Everything is going to be electronic in many ways, such as bills, etc. In some ways, it's an inevitable trend. As far as the parcel business is concerned, it is not among the core functions of the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U47	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U48	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Omniva Communication Manager Erki Varma only came up last month with information that all post offices are scheduled to be closed over five years. In rural areas, however, the closure of the post office leads to moral and material damage. Closure also leads to people in the country being unemployed. Why do you not stand up for the state enterprise to set an example and retain the jobs of the people of Estonia in the country instead of losing them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U49	Thank you, good questioner! The country promotes job creation through the economic environment. This is much more effective than keeping open post offices that people who work in them sometimes don't even think they're reasonable. At one event, representatives of the Estonian Post trade union came to me and said that they too felt that this network should be reviewed to a reasonable degree. I'll give you a couple of numbers to compare so you can understand what we're talking about. First, about half of the post offices owned by Eesti Post have fewer than four postal transactions per day. Secondly, if I compare us with countries that we obviously do not consider to be lagging behind, Denmark, the Netherlands, Ireland, there are more than 900 post points in Denmark, where postal services are provided, and the Danish national postal company owns 30 post offices. In the Netherlands, two out of 2550 post offices belong to the national post, while in Ireland 52 out of 1572 post offices belong to the national post. Once again, Eesti Post has said that in order to better serve people, post offices are being moved to those places that people use. Therefore, the aim is to provide a more accessible and better service for people. There's no point in keeping an office open where no one can find a way.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U50	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Do you not think that in the case of Eesti Post, however, this is an extremely important company from the point of view of Estonia's security? However, this is the only information exchange channel that will remain operational even if our electronic services are no longer available in the event of a cyber attack. Do you really think it would be wise to hand over such a company in private and shut down all local post offices?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U52	Thank you. I'm gonna say it in half with jokes, but in general, the only thing left to work on these exercises is the media. And if you answer your joke, it is likely that at that moment the Estonian Post registers will also fail. Once again, there are services that are important to the state. The state also places obligations on Eesti Post, to what extent, where and what kind of service to provide. Estonian Post currently loses around 3 million euros from its services and that is why it is necessary to review its networks. What standards of service remain, how often something is done, remains a matter for the state to decide, regardless of who drives the parcel business. So these two things don't get mixed up. What Eesti Post is doing now is making it more effective, getting closer to people. In fact, many consumers in the same studies you refer to say that they would no longer like to go to post offices, but to post office machines that are more convenient and accessible to them. So I can see that Eesti Post is currently looking for ways to provide better services to people, to provide a more up-to-date service. There is no point in keeping open a post office that no one uses or is now in an uncomfortable place.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U53	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U54	Now Artur Talvik is asking Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U55	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. Our security policy situation is complicated, we all know that, and we do not dispute the presence of NATO's allied forces. But in this regard, the Department of Defense has, in a sense, come into God's position. He's gonna make decisions that aren't open to debate in society at large. Those who argue against something are quickly labeled as enemy henchmen. But I didn't want to talk about it. The central polygon has expanded essentially to twice the size it was before by adding a Soodla hazard zone. Recently, Ämari airport was also being expanded. Shouldn't such debates be held more widely in society, I mean, with such decisions? Will there be more such objects and enlargements in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U56	Good questioner, thank you for a very reasoned question. I would say that the Secretary of Defense is certainly not a god, nor is God a Ministry of Defence. As far as our new capabilities are concerned, as the questioner pointed out, the security situation has certainly changed in recent years and, unfortunately, more tense, not better. This has resulted in the Estonian Defence Forces having to increase their firepower in the coming years and in the future, I hope, further. We are introducing a completely new technique, such as infantry combat vehicles. Next year, we will develop armoured manoeuvrability if we get anti-personnel combat vehicles from the Netherlands CV90 plus supporting technology, which is also heavy equipment. You have to practice to make all this work. The unit is actually armoured maneuverable only after he's practiced. If there's technology and there's ammo, it's not enough alone. We can read these things in books and play them through the computer, but the working unit is still one that's actually been practicing. There are no such opportunities in Estonia knows what much, purely geography, and therefore the central polygon is one thing we have also done around the danger zone. The government has approved that it can be used for 90 days a year. The special design of the soodle has indeed gone to work. It's imperative that we deal with these things. But I dare say that the local community is involved as much as possible in local governments and the tourism sector, all the way to the hiking federations. I think that perhaps at one time the situation really was that the discussions seemed one-sided, but it has certainly changed by now. There is always information, there is always consultation and negotiation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U57	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U58	Thank you for your answer. I have a different kind of information, namely that the information has gone from a position of power. For example, many of whose residences and businesses are in this danger zone have still not learned what happens to them and how much compensation they are forced to move out of there. And the other half of my question was still unanswered. Are there any more such objects coming in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U59	Yes, thank you! I think that if there is room for improvement in the notification, of course we will do the best we can. The ideal situation as far as training is concerned is really impossible in Estonia, in the sense that we do not have Siberia, the desert of Nullab or the desert of Gobi. We must also fit into our country's territory with our military and exercises. This situation, where we go to practice in Latvia, for example, is far from ideal, plus that we ourselves want our country to have allied forces. They too come here to work hard, not somewhere in the barracks or in the barracks, but actually practice and practice with us. This is very important from the point of view of national defence, and we are really doing our best to reach a compromise with all the local people and other groups of the population or interest groups that have been mentioned. I believe that this really has been the result of cooperation and joint discussions. Do we have any new plans? At the moment, there are no plans for large exercise areas, at least in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U60	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U61	Thank you, Minister. You said the defence budget would make a powerful leap next year. That's very good, because people who don't feed their soldiers will soon feed strangers. We'd need tanks for our armoured capabilities, then it'd be more beautiful. But, unfortunately, one hand is given, the other is taken. The Defence Forces have a very large and very thirsty engine park, with fuel excise rising from January 1st. I'm interested in how much of this powerful leap in the defense budget eats up the increase in fuel excise.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U62	Thank you for your question. I think the good news really is, as the questioner said, that the defence budget is increasing. And we have, at least within the government coalition, a very clear political consensus on the fact that 2% of GDP plus 0.07% more is the cost of receiving allies. This puts our national defence on a very solid foundation and allows us to plan activities that are very long-term. Yeah, I'm sure the Defence Forces' vehicles are also consuming fuel. Some of them, as mentioned, are thirsty. I think that, in the light of the fall in world market prices, when we see unprecedentedly cheap fuel prices, I believe that we can all see in our gas stations that the price is often less than one litre of euro, of course this a few percent increase in excise duty does not seriously affect our defence budget. It may be much more affected, I think, by currency fluctuations, by fluctuations in the price of oil on the world market. So I do believe that this is not an extraordinary issue for our defence budget and does not put extraordinary pressure on our defence capabilities or on its development.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U63	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U64	The next question is for the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, in the role of Prime Minister. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U65	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In most of the refugees' home countries, the fight against infectious diseases, whether known to us or unknown viruses, is rather poor, not to mention registration and information about what the World Health Organisation does not have. The question is, how do we prepare for meetings with unknown viruses, perhaps, known to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U66	Let's get ready. In Estonia's health care system, there are 157 proper beds for the treatment of infectious diseases, with an average occupancy rate of 65%, which means that there is a sufficient supply. We have competence centres at West-Tallinn Central Hospital and the University of Tartu Hospital, where 24/7 security is also ensured. Preparedness for diagnostics and treatment must be continuous, and that is because traveling to other countries is also quite active. Now for a little clarification. Despite a common understanding that refugees from their countries of origin are bringing about an unknown and dangerous infectious disease on a massive scale, this has in fact not been proven in general. The World Health Organisation also considers the risk of introducing exotic infectious diseases associated with refugee migration to be rather low. This is not considered to be higher than for normal passengers. Tens of thousands of refugees have arrived in Europe in recent months, but this has not led to an exceptional introduction of infectious diseases. The experience of other EU countries so far shows that refugees mostly suffer from infectious diseases, which also spread across Europe. Some of them are primarily caused by the poor living conditions of refugees, and nothing else. Guidance has been agreed at the Health Board in Estonia for health care providers on how to carry out a refugee health check. All refugees undergo a health check. If they have infectious diseases, they will be diagnosed quickly and treated.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U67	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U68	Thank you. Good minister! You said that refugees arriving in Estonia will be applied to work and will create added value for the Estonian economy. Your colleague from Germany, the Labour Minister there recently said that barely 10% of immigrants can be included in employment because they do not have the appropriate qualifications and qualifications. Speaking of a million refugees, this would mean a million new unemployed for Germany. What is the basis of your optimism that it is precisely the refugees arriving in Estonia that can be applied to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U69	Thank you. Firstly, my optimism is based on the fact that if we look at people who have received refugee status in Estonia so far, most of them work. These people don't come here looking for a good life in the sense that they want to sit somewhere on the bedside and get benefits. These are people whose lives in their home country have been ruined, they can no longer live normally. They come looking for protection and are willing to contribute to this society for their own good, for their family and for society's well-being. Of course, the issue of qualifications for many refugees is also language skills that need to be addressed. Their qualifications must be increased, they must be sent to further training and retraining, such opportunities exist in Estonia. There is also a need to contribute to language learning, which is dealt with by the state through an adaptation programme. If we add to this the fact that in Estonia there will be fewer labour force in the coming years because our population is ageing, we will face more and more problems such as labour shortages. So generally unemployment can be much less feared in the coming years. When we talk about how many people will come to Estonia in the coming years, this figure is 600. The Estonian labour market will certainly be able to find an adequate application for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U70	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U71	The next question is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U72	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We know that a long time ago passenger transport was shut down on the Piusa-Võru-Valga route. This was an important movement area for the people of South-East Estonia and Võru. This was also important because this route led to progress towards Tallinn and Riga, which are now inhibited. Luckily, the line went better than Haapsalu's, where even the tracks were taken up in their time. There's still rails here, even though they're a little rusty right now. Will it be possible to restore passenger transport on this route in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U73	Thank you, good questioner! As a reminder, indeed, there is no passenger train traffic on the Valga railway line at present. The last passenger train travelled on the Valga-Piusa route in 2001. Now, in view of demographic developments, since 2001, the number of inhabitants in the counties of Võru and Valga has decreased by about 15% and the demand for bus and coach transport has also decreased to some extent. Remembering how the train was then used, on Fridays, about 100 people used the train, and on other days there were about 50 passengers. With this volume, at least our experts say so, it is not foreseen that this line will be restored. If it were to be estimated financially, the renovation of the route to Haapsalu would cost approximately EUR 60 million. For example, in three years it would be EUR 25 million if it were to be done at Valga-Koidula. So there won't be anything for free. This is the actual situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U74	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U75	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. As an experienced politician, you probably know my question, but for a verbatim, I'll put it out loud. What news of the restoration of passenger transport on the Rohuküla route? Businesses restore the rice family to the turba section, but are trains going to travel there too?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U76	Thank you. In the same way, you are familiar with this process again. And I think you also own the Western Life that writes about it almost every day, you're definitely reading this paper. It also says things that are actually happening. Businesses are currently communicating with people in this field in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and there are several possibilities for discussion. Our interest is that if entrepreneurs are prepared to contribute themselves, what is the risk they bear commercially. If they can formulate it and we understand it the same way, then this process can reach the decision-making phase, either to do it the same way or to do it the other way. Let's take a look at the alternatives. Let us discuss whether it would be possible to make this line longer in the future. At first, it seemed to me that the companies were forecasting a slightly higher number of passengers to a smaller segment, but now their expectations have already come down. We are trying to reach honest numbers, because, in view of the future, the taxpayer will have to shoulder it in the long run when this line is restored.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U77	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U78	The next question is for the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, in charge of the Prime Minister, by Monika Haukamm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In order to develop the infrastructure for nursing and care services, the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) allocated 25,5 million during the previous programming period and 18 hospitals have now come to an end beautifully. 1091 well renovated beds have been created to provide a service, of which 750 are completely new service places. This means that we have a pretty good and beautiful physical environment. But now we need to get to the bottom of this physical environment. I will focus more specifically on inpatient nursing care in the final phase of a person's life. When a person is born into this life, it is a very welcome event, we arrive with great and very professional help. But unfortunately, the elderly can't really feel it. When will the health insurance fund start financing hospital services? If such a decision does not yet exist, will it at least be discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U80	Thank you. It is true that significant investments have been made in fixed nursing care or infrastructure with the support of the European Union, while the financing of nursing care has also increased from the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. It can be said that it has increased at a strong pace. While in 2010 the financing volume was slightly above EUR 15 million, in 2014 it was already EUR 24.5 million, thus an increase of 72%. However, in comparison, total funding for healthcare has increased by about a third over this period. Now, more specifically, to your question. As you know, in 2014 the requirements and services offered by nursing hospitals were agreed with service providers and other parties. As far as hospital services are concerned, the current plan is to separate its funding from nursing care, ex-care care and specialist medical care, and to implement this change from 2017. Now, as far as I know, preparations and negotiations with the various parties should take place.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U81	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U82	Thank you for that answer. Of course, it is very welcome that the amounts of money allocated to nursing care are increasing and the percentages are really impressive. However, if you look at the total amount that goes to this sector, it is no longer so welcome, compared to the entire budget of the Health Insurance Fund, because we are not talking about very large amounts. Could you please tell me that I couldn't possibly understand exactly what's going to happen to the hospital? Does it come as a separate line to the health insurance fund? In fact, the hospital service is more than nursing. It is certainly a more expensive service than an independent inpatient nursing care service, because it includes not only nurses and doctors but also a pain doctor, a hobby, a social worker, a psychologist, and a logo beet. Besides, they also, of course, need more space to have a place to die peacefully.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U83	I am sure the Ministry of Social Affairs, and I myself, will be happy to provide further information on this matter. At the moment, I know that preparations are indeed being made within the sickness fund in order to separate hospital services from other services and to implement them from 2017. But like I said, I'd be happy to share more information in another format.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U84	I will conclude on this issue. Question Time is over. Thank you to the ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U85	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U86	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I hand over the draft law amending the Act amending the Act, which amends § 2 (4) of the Act and reads as follows: "The aid is paid to a parent and guardian of a minor child who requests the court to make a living, except for a change in the size of the maintenance, and for whom the court settlement referred to in § 3 (1) of this Act has been made. " At present, children who are appointed under guardianship and who are not raised by parents or parents are not entitled to maintenance support. Thus, children who grow up with one parent and children under guardianship are in an unequal situation. According to the Maintenance Aid Act, the guardian cannot apply for maintenance aid. It is necessary that children under guardianship also have the opportunity to receive maintenance support and become equal to those raised by parents or one of their parents. In the interests of the child, equal treatment shall be guaranteed in such cases. Under the law in force so far, maintenance aid is paid only on application to the parent. The effect of amending the law will also improve the chances of receiving help from children who live under guardianship.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U87	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U88	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the seven members of the Free Party, I present an inquiry to the Prime Minister. This will focus on macroeconomic and budgetary projections for 2016 and beyond. We are in the middle of a first reading of the draft budget law. The Minister of Finance has finished his presentation, but we did not get quite a clear answer to some of the questions yesterday. The question marks relate in particular to how it is possible to plan an increase in exports of goods and services, such as for the coming year and beyond, is planned according to the explanatory memorandum, if exports are currently in decline. One issue concerns the movement of inflation levels. We find it difficult to understand the government's forecast because the employment population is falling and, at the same time, there are problems in many export reference countries. The projected increase in social tax revenues of 4.8% seems to us to be too great. And there are a few more questions. In fact, we are not quite satisfied with the way the Minister of Finance responded to us yesterday. And the minister won't come before us with any more draft state budget. The Prime Minister, too, said something about the fact that if the experts have thought so, that is the way it is. We want to hear some substantive reasoning, not the statement that the Minister has a wise man in his pocket when he comes here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U89	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U90	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Estonian Centre Party initiates the draft law amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu. This concerns the law on replying to a letter of formal notice and a request for clarification and the law on collective redress. The Centre Party Group is of the opinion that it is in principle a good thing that Parliament adopted a law on collective redress. Since then, quite a number of collective appeals have come before Parliament. However, it has happened that quite a number of these appeals have not become a real solution; they have been resolved in other ways as permitted by law. The faction of the Centre Party sees at least two bottlenecks in this law. One is resolving and responding to a collective appeal. At present, there is a possibility that the committee that will deal with it will address the problem, whether in the form of a draft law, in the form of a public hearing, by proposing it to the government or by other means. In many cases, the committees have so far chosen this "other" way, for example by finding a point in the coalition agreement that indirectly concerns this issue, but does not actually solve the problem. Our proposal is to delete this other way in which the Commission can resolve this issue. The second point of concern concerns the rejection of a collective appeal. At present, there is a section in the law that allows collective redress to be rejected if less than two years have passed since the same content was submitted. Two years is too long in our opinion. A lot can happen in two years, and the same problem may arise earlier. Our proposal is also to reject this paragraph from the law and to provide that the basis for rejection can only be that collective appeal is directly contrary to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U91	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U92	Honorable Chairman! Colleagues! I have another inquiry to the Minister of Education Jürgen Near about the teachers' minimum wage. A minimum teacher's salary is a guaranteed salary for the state, less for a full-time teacher. In the current government coalition, there are two political parties that promised to raise teachers' salaries by 20% above the national average in four years. The current Minister of Education and Research also considers raising the pay of teachers to be a priority, but two months ago this priority was not seen as one of the country's economic priorities when the coalition presented its priorities here on the board. On the basis of the state budget, the Minister's statement, press releases and the hearing in the Committee on Culture, it is unclear where the increase in the minimum wage for teachers comes from. The budget of the Ministry of Education and Research has been reduced by 2.9% in 2016, along with education grants, so it is more likely that teachers' pay will fall next year. The question remains, where will the pay of teachers be increased? There is a possibility that some teachers must be let go, while the remaining ones have to be burdened and work intensity increased, but the work force remains the same, the goals remain the same, but the number of employees is decreasing. In this regard, we have the following questions for you. What is the level and how will the minimum wage of basic school and upper secondary school teachers meeting the qualification requirements be calculated on 1 January 2016? What method is used to calculate the minimum wage? Is this number simply taken from the sky or calculated by something - either quality or something else? Instead of the promised 4% wage increase, teachers are facing a wage increase of 2.9%. What must be the number of contact hours for teachers and how many teachers must be fired to raise wages by 4% if the wage fund cuts by 2.9%? That's our question. Please do not talk round, but tell me where you will take the money and where it will be put. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U93	I have adopted two drafts and two questions, and we will deal with them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now please check your presence! Currently, 78 members of the Riigikogu are present, missing 23.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U94	We will continue where the first reading of the 2016 draft State Budget Act 103 was interrupted yesterday by the Government of the Republic. Our questions were answered by the Commission rapporteur. In the queue of the questioners, the first is Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U95	Thank you. Dear Commission waitress, When we examine draft 103 and look at the explanatory memorandum to the state budget, we will see a sentence that says that a number of initiatives are being taken to halt marginalisation, linked to 'the creation of jobs, economic recovery and the development of infrastructure'. Indeed, it is very pleased that the Government of the Republic is concerned about peripheralization as a serious problem. But be so good as to name the three concrete actions that should slow down marginalisation and which you have certainly discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U96	Thank you, good questioner! In order to halt peripheralisation, each minister, as well as the government as a whole, has planned a series of activities to be carried out through budget money. Examples include the construction and maintenance of roads led by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the administrative and state reform led by the Minister of Public Administration. Arto Aas has not yet been to the Commission to present his plans. But these activities are within the remit of each minister, and three of them cannot be mentioned. It might hurt someone, because there are a lot of activities that, financed from the budget, reduce marginalisation in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U97	Honourable Riigikogu! I have a request regarding the procedure. Spontaneous political debates outside the House are absolutely necessary and reasonable, but please keep them somewhere else, not directly behind this door. If the debate takes on a very dynamic character, our colleagues in the EKRE will not hear what the respondent tells them. Their protest is perfectly understandable because the President of the Riigikogu does not hear what is being said either. So please debate in another room where you won't bother us. Thank you. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U98	Mr. Chairman of the Commission! More than 12 years ago, a fine unit was established in Estonia, which was 4 euros at the time. The idea was to avoid a future surge in fines at a certain time. We are now faced with the situation that for 12 years nothing has changed, which means that all the interim presidents of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Ministers of Justice have failed to do their job. There is now a 2.5-fold increase in the fine unit rate for this budget. Can you tell me why the decision of the time was ignored, according to which the fine unit rate had to be increased gradually, each year, say, by a maximum of EUR 1? Now maybe there's a huge leap. Aren't we gonna make another big mistake with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U99	Thank you. It's a question of assessment. But in the end, it is up to all the members and political groups of the Riigikogu to decide how they will vote on a specific draft concerning an increase in the daily penalty unit rate. We did not hold this debate in such detail in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I believe that this debate lies ahead both in the Committee on Legal Affairs and in this large Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U100	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U101	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I would like to ask you how state support for Ida-Viru County will look in next year's budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U102	There is no such county-based approach that the budget states how many euros, whether for investments or grants, will go to one county or another. If you browse the draft budget yourself and the explanatory statement, you won't find that distribution. However, on the basis of investment projects carried out by different ministries, be it in the field of road construction or education, it is certainly possible to draw up a list by county of how many euros to support a particular county. If you have any additional interest in this, the Committee on Monetary Affairs will certainly be able to address the Ministry of Finance with a request for such a table to be put together separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U103	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Counting the budget, I think there's a few lines left out of it. I do not know if you discussed this in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but, for example, from the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, I did not find any ad hoc support that has existed in previous years, such as the support of the Association of Housing Cooperatives. I didn't notice that in the bill. And there are still other provisions missing. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, were there any mention of ad hoc grants provided by this Ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U105	Thank you. Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal visited the Finance Committee and gave an overview of his administration budget. The main focus of the debate was on road construction, public transport subsidies, which make a very large contribution to the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and bus and boat traffic. All these areas require additional money from the state. Support for housing cooperatives, I must admit, we did not discuss separately. If there is a particular interest in whether a line is missing or excessive, you can certainly question it. And a member of the Riigikogu has the right to make proposals to change the budget; this opportunity lies before everyone. If you are missing this line and you think it should be in next year's budget, then the opportunity to make proposals lies ahead.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U106	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U107	Mr. Chairman of the Commission! I don't think the fine unit has anything in common with the daily rates. They relate to another type of financial punishment and are subject to criminal sanctions. But here's my question. Am I right to understand that, from the point of view of the state budget, both the financial penalties to be imposed in court and the special features of administrative fines, it is that, if, hypothetically, no financial penalties were to be received in Estonia next year, this would in principle not lead the state budget out of balance? This is unlike, for example, the state fees, where it is hypothetically assumed that they will not be received at all within a year, then the state budget would have a pretty large underbreak. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U108	Thank you for your question. In my understanding, fines should have the same behavioural effect: a person receives a fine for misbehaviour, which is legitimate and agreed in society. It should have a deterrent effect. In other words, fines, as you referred to, have an impact on the budget. One way is to assess the impact of fines on the basis of whether the budget receives less or more revenue. However, we are very likely not to move in the direction of having as many fines as possible. Rather, people's behaviour should be such that there are no penalties for infringements at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U109	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, how much of the national budget for the following year, in terms of revenue, is the amount obtained from European Union sources?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U111	The amount of EU funds for the next budget period 2016 to 2020 is just under EUR 4 billion for the Estonian state. As you probably well know, we are now at a stage where one budgetary period for the European Union is ending and the other is about to begin. This is an interim period in which new programmes will be opened. Next year's specific number will be specified for you separately. However, the total volume for seven years is just under 4 billion. But to be exact, I'll tell you this separately, what's next year's amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U112	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U113	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. In next year's state budget, the Ministry of Education and Research has presented its budget dissertations in a completely different way than the rest of the ministries. This transcript should be used to ensure that open coalition agreements can be honoured and teachers' salaries rise significantly faster than the average salary of the rest of the population. The Minister has admitted that he has not been given more money to increase at least 10% of his teacher's salary in the budget. Now, if he finds the possibility of this salary increase on the account of "internal resources," does the Ministry have to do some special procedure before the budget is second-reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U114	Thank you. Firstly, the Minister for Education and Science will come to the Committee on Monetary Affairs next week and we will be able to ask all questions about his budget there. Secondly, the salaries of educators must rise by 4% next year, as must rescue, police and cultural workers. Thirdly, each ministry has received a task of reducing the number of employees in its area of government. It is logical that, when the overall number of employees decreases, this reduction must be proportionate in the private and public sectors. In the spring of next year, each minister must report to the government on the achievement of the objectives set. This, in turn, gives each minister the opportunity to make additional wage increases within the payroll fund. If the Ministry or the Minister has found places where he can re-distribute work and bring some people together, this payroll will not be taken away, but will be directed towards raising other people's wages. This is also the case in the education sector. All in all, as a percentage of wage increases are expected in the coming year, we will receive final data on this at the end of 2016. But the projections, yes, the Committee on Monetary Affairs will receive from the Minister next week when he comes to show us his plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U115	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U116	Thank you, my good colleague. On the subject of Ida-Viru County, I didn't get any smarter than your last answer. Now, let me ask you one really clever question for us. From 1 July, the unemployment fund will assess people's ability to work. The people who are working on this are saying that we do not have an information system that should be operating from 1 July. My question is: is there any money in the budget for this information system to start operating from 1 July next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U117	Thank you. Work capacity reform will come into effect from the beginning of next year and all the resources for the various ministries will be planned for this budget. This has been confirmed by all the ministers who have been to the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U118	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U119	Thank you. Good waitress! The state budget is a very large document and one of the most important decisions of the year for us. As Chairman of the Monetary Commission, tell me what are the most important lines in the state budget for next year. Which would you highlight?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U120	Thank you. The biggest increase in the budget will certainly come in the social sector. When we talk about family benefits and child benefits, including parental benefits, there are tens of millions of growths. As a reminder, children's benefits will rise to EUR 50 for the first and second children, and families with third and more children will receive an additional EUR 200 for the large family. Secondly, tax changes. I am thinking of raising the tax-free minimum from EUR 154 to EUR 170 next year and four years to a total of EUR 205. This will certainly help people with lower incomes to cope better in Estonia, leaving more money for them on payday, figuratively speaking. A tax exemption for low-paid people is targeted at the same target group. The aim of this too is precisely to improve the lives of those on lower incomes. Thirdly, I mention investments. We cannot become wealthier as a society by sharing more subsidies. We need to create added value. The total investment volume will increase to EUR 480 million. The volume of investments in road construction in this amount is 300 euros and just after a million euros. This is certainly also a very important trend in the budget. But there are further steps: strengthening the eastern border and building the border, raising defence spending by more than 2% of GDP. We are one of the few countries that contributes so much to national defence. These are the most important steps foreseen by the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U121	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! On 22 September, the Council of Ministers of the Interior of the European Union decided to relocate some refugees gathered in the southern countries to other countries of the European Union, including Estonia. My question to you is simple. If you have listened to different opinions as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, including those of the Ministers, have you had any confidence that next year's budget would be sufficient to ensure that this decision is implemented? Secondly, does the 2016 budget also include the likely costs of additional relocations of refugees, which have been discussed recently in the EU's corridors of power?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U123	Thank you. We talked about this on Monday in the Commission. As regards the reflection of the various grants granted to refugees in the draft budget, this money is listed in the row on income support. The remaining amounts necessary for the resettlement of refugees are not included in the budget. This money comes from the European Union's special fund, from which EUR 6 000 1 000 is allocated to people. It's a one-time grant. The mechanism for the technical transfer of this money to the budget is developed by the Ministry of the Interior with the Ministry of Social Affairs. So one answer is that in the row on income support, there is a list of possible benefits that can be distributed to refugees. However, one-off grants will come in the next year and we will see this particular line in the 2016 state budget report.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U124	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, I'm afraid I misjudged my question. I don't think you understand what I'm saying, and I'm going to say it again. I did not care how much the entire Estonian institutions would receive next year. That's $4 billion. I can see for myself how much money we'll get in the next seven years. That's the kind of thing I'm interested in. If I open the draft state budget from any location, such as page 16, where the Ministry of Finance is, there are 517 million foreign grants received here. And here's where the numbers go. I wonder how many percent of the revenue from our state budget these external subsidies make up. Given that this is the most volatile source of revenue, which depends on what is happening in Europe, it is of some importance. That's what I asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U126	Thank you! I can assure you that I understand your question, that is something you should not be concerned about. Your concern about investment and the volatility of EU funds is equally understandable. I can refer to government investment, which will amount to EUR 422 million from external funds in 2016. This is the number due to the summer economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance. This will be complemented by 213 million public revenue investments next year, 71 million RKAS investments and 173 million local government investments. When we talk about percentages, the cost of the state budget is 8.9 billion euros, the European Union's money is 422 million, which is roughly 5%.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U127	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U128	Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I'm still worried about the minister of education left in a helpless position. I understand that as a proper party member, he wants to honour the promises of an open coalition treaty signed by the chairman of his party. One of these promises concerns the raising of teachers' salaries. Their salary should reach 120% of the average wage in three years' time. This means that teachers' pay should rise by a minimum of 10% by next year. This money has not been given to the Minister. You said he could find the money by concentrating on the people in his sector. The Ministry of Education has been instructed to concentrate 176 people and clearly does not lay off the entire ministry; he must go after the teachers. Have you ever wondered how many schools such an assignment would mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U129	That's a great idea. You made it to the school lockdown. At first, there was concern about the Minister of Education, and finally, the topic was the closure of schools. Logical, honest follow-up. I think we should ask Jürgen Ligi together when he comes to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. However, I have not seen any announcements of how many schools will be closed. Once again, I confirm that a 4% increase in the payroll fund is foreseen in the budget. We're talking about growth, we're not talking about something being cut or reduced. This criticism is also interesting in the sense that the payroll is growing, but people are unhappy about it. It should be the other way around. As I already answered your question earlier, with an exact forecast figure of how much the salary of the educational staff will rise next year through internal restructuring, we hopefully will be able to respond next week when Jürgen Ligi comes to the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U130	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U131	Thank you very much. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I'm asking about the State Department's budget lines. As we know, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget has been smaller for years than that of other ministries. Next year, it will fall to nearly EUR 300000 and there will be 11 more employees to be made redundant, while in five years, 55 employees from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will have to be made redundant. That's my question. You discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs the concerns of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that Estonia is facing foreign policy objectives such as being the Presidency of the European Union and our aspiration to be a rotating member of the UN Security Council. All of this also requires financial resources. Is it possible that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will increase its budget over the next few years?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U132	Thank you. I'll start at the end. An additional EUR 80000 has been allocated to the United Nations-related campaign. Secondly, money is also planned for the Presidency in the budget strategy. Next year, if I remember correctly, it will be EUR 10 million to prepare the Presidency. Understandably, more officials are to be hired during the Presidency, and also for the previous period, who will help to carry out the Presidency. As far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget as a whole is concerned, I can rely on the Minister for Foreign Affairs' words that no basic function must suffer as a result of the fact that the budget remains essentially the same. You have to deal with fewer people. No main activity in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the External Action Service shall suffer in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U133	Thank you, Mr Remo Holsmer, rapporteur for the Committee on Monetary Affairs. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. As this is a first reading, only the representatives of the parliamentary groups will receive the floor. On behalf of the Group of the Kadri Simson Centre Party, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U134	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Almost three weeks have passed since the 2016 State Budget Act was handed over to the Riigikogu. It is said that time is an issue, but despite the presence of ministers in the committees, there is still a great deal of confusion. The most confusing situation is that of the Ministry of Education and Research. The Minister visited the Committee on Culture before the first reading of the draft; he has not reached the Committee on Monetary Affairs. There are two political parties in the current government coalition that promised to raise teachers' salaries to 20% higher than the average wage in the country. A coalition agreement was opened to this end, and that promise was written there. According to the Prime Minister, partners' promises are taken into account and there is money to move in this direction. At the same time, the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research, together with education support, is reduced by 2.9%. It should be borne in mind that there are more than 2,000 students in this academic year than in the previous academic year. Minister Ligi is unhappy and shows his dissatisfaction with the budget publicly. How else to interpret his words in response to an inquiry here in front of the Riigikogu. I quote: 'But I must admit that I am disappointed in the budget. I am disappointed that the people who raised expectations in the field of education did not come to support when it was necessary to support them. I did my best, and I intend to continue it, but the first decisions were not what I expected. " It seems very strongly that the former Minister of Finance, who in his day measured all areas of administration with Excel's table, beats their own with his own weapon. Unfortunately, teachers and, more generally, the whole field of education are suffering. Because now the Minister is told that the missing salary must be found by concentrating 176 educators. To infinity, however, even the Reform Party cannot govern our country solely by using internal resources. This redistribution of money in the field of education is not fair. There are no solutions to the state budget next year for local governments either. We are talking about this for the sixth year that, in 2009, when there was an economic crisis, the income base of municipalities with additional budgets was reduced, a significant part of their personal income tax received so far was taken away. The same decision also reduced funding for local roads. The Road Act in force until 1 March 2009 stipulated that 10% of excise duties on fuel would be avoided by local roads. This crisis cut has been going on for six years. Local roads account for 41% of all roads combined, with a significantly lower percentage of funding. Between 2010 and 2013, only 6.5% of the money received with excise duties on fuel was allocated to local roads on average. The government coalition often claims that local government revenues have increased. Yes, if we look at the nominal amount, the income tax share of local governments will exceed the pre-crisis level next year. However, if we compare the share of this amount in GDP, in 2008 the budget revenue of local governments amounted to 9.05% of GDP, but in the coming year it will only be 7.5%. It should be borne in mind that the costs of municipalities have also increased significantly. They have increased because of the rise in VAT and excise duties; they have increased because of the increase in the cost of living in general. And in this state, even a century, let alone a tenth, is very important. But with this budget, the government does not even point in the direction of giving up the cut during the crisis. From time to time, it seems that the government coalition is in ring defence: hands on ears, eyes closed, they hum their mantra consistently. No criticism will be heard. Why do I think that? Some time ago, the Riigikogu's front was full of tractors and concerned farmers. Farmers came here with a clear message: our agriculture is in the deepest crisis and needs help. Our farmers need exceptional help, but they also need equal treatment, also compared to Latvian, Lithuanian and Finnish farmers. But what they asked for is not in the state budget. The country of Estonia, like other new countries of the European Union, has the right to compensate from its budget for the fact that our farmers receive less area support than farmers in the old Member States, until 2020. This money could compensate for the worse competitive conditions for our farmers. In 2016, the European Union will allow Estonia to pay 21.5 million euros from the state budget to its farmers. However, this transitional support is not found in the budget. There's talk of exceptional crisis assistance, but it's barely there. The budget for next year will continue with the same bending policy that the Reform Party has been pursuing over the last few years. In the rush to make the budget, the broader picture of what should improve Estonia's life and, looking abroad, it is a positive surprise. We can call it a lack of vision or narrative, it doesn't matter. The vision, the narrative, of course, is lacking in the government in office. Under the leadership of the Reform Party, a large amount of money has been taken out of the state budget by reducing the income tax rate. And this money is very unequally distributed among people with different incomes. At the same time, it is known that certain tasks must be carried out by the State. It is reasonable that certain goods are offered by the State and not purchased on an open market. Because when a country carries out its tasks, it comes out cheaper for society. It is not wise or economically appropriate for every individual to hire a security company to guard his home or to take a private teacher for his child. Ensuring security, public order and quality education is the responsibility of the state. If the reduction in the rate of income tax results in a situation where the state does not have enough money to perform its core tasks properly, something has been very wrong. If tax gifts have resulted in a situation where tax money has to be scraped off from companies that are facing a sharp deterioration in their competitive situation compared to their neighbours, then something is very wrong. I therefore call for the Estonian tax system to be assessed with an open mind, to be rid of dogmas and to learn from Western Europe and the Nordic countries, which we want to be part of. I assure you that the Centre Party Group will table its own amendments to the 2016 draft budget, but in fact the target needs to be set significantly further. If we don't know where we're going, it's very hard to reach the destination, if not impossible. Looking at this budget, it is clear that the current government does not know where they are going with the Estonian state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U135	Andres Herkel on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U136	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I want to refute one of the statements that sounded in these reports. Indeed, it is as if the opposition were satisfied with this state budget and did not know how to supplement anything. I do not know which opposition was meant in this case. In any case, the Free Party is not satisfied with this budget. The problems already begin with the overall readability of the budget. This problem has been raised here from year to year. The state budget is not the most common lecture. But the more people read it, the better. The state budget is not well-readable. I also rely on the observations made by those delegates who have also had several exchanges in Parliament. They say I realized before, now I can't. And when you look at this update, which is reflected in the presentation of the Ministry of Education and Research budget, it seems that everything is getting more and more cryptic. It is not good for our democracy if people do not understand the budget. We really read the budget here three times. We are helped by all kinds of aid, we can ask the ministers questions, etc. Members of the Riigikogu must understand the budget. But the problem is not just the formalisation of the state budget and the way in which it is presented. The problem is also that by reading the explanatory memorandum and looking at the various tables, we see that the assertions are contradictory, and even the figures we find contradictory. At times, it reminds me of a great mythological system, which is not kept together by logical connections but by faith. Cryphetics of cultural anthropology Claude Lévi-Strauss has never said about the fact that in today's society, the most mytologized area of life is politics, and in particular this part of politics that relates to propaganda. I remembered this when I began to look at the slides presented to the Finance Committee from the Ministry of Finance, especially how our tax changes have been presented there, which are far from systemic. There is a page where nine mummies are marked with the main tax changes related to the budget for the coming year. First, the increase in tax-free income to 170 euros per month, and only in the most recent position, under it, is the increase in excise duties on fuel. I think the line's kind of messed up here. The impact of this first measure is microscopic and far from all the promises made by the coalition's political parties before the elections. On the other hand, the impact of the increase in excise duty on both the budget and the taxpayer, on society as a whole, is much greater as it affects energy prices more widely. And there's nothing on this list about fines and charges. Formally, we do not need to be, and we would be very pleased to know that the level of fines and charges does not directly affect the state budget, precisely its balance. But the money's going somewhere. In addition, this change suddenly comes with such a sloppage that fines and levies are increasing several times. In fact, such things should move on a long-term schedule, with rates rising either by 1% per year or by 1% over several years. But the tides are much higher. Another topic that tends to tend to myths or wonders to the realm of the myths and wonders is that if we ask where exactly these growth forecasts come from, the minister will answer us that 'but experts say'. End of story. It is such a'smart man in the pocket' philosophy indeed. We still expect clear explanations to be given in this Chamber and political responsibility will also be taken for these forecasts. The projections may be different and we really don't understand this background system. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U137	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U138	This growth is not seen in our export destination countries and the proportion of people employed in Estonia is steadily decreasing. That, too, is a fact that is obviously not sufficiently taken into account. Now I go more specifically to questions concerning Estonia's competitiveness and business environment. Here we see rather negative effects. This negative impact, of course, started with the tax changes adopted in spring, which were initiated by a cluster bill that we all know about. As has been said, excise duties on fuel and energy will have a profound impact on the prices of fuel and energy in general, but not only that. What will happen if our excise duty on diesel rises by 14% and in Latvia by 2%? What happens when we see that the tax is actually being refueled and paid in a neighbouring country? We will definitely go to second reading with a plan to table amendments on specific areas. Some remarks. The situation of agriculture and its share in GDP is important, not least. The dairy and pig sectors in particular require more decisive intervention than the government has planned. One major problem in Estonia seems to be that it is not taken seriously to reflect the development plans adopted at national level in the budget. In particular, this concerns the R &amp; D &amp; I development agenda, research funding. There are also a number of educational problems in the administration of the same ministry, which the previous speaker spoke about at length. Then the problems of municipalities etc., etc. There are many places that need to be corrected. Against this background, however, it is very ugly to note that political parties are still being financed on the same scale without realising that this is a place where society can be shown an example, where it can demonstrate the understanding that there really is a need to save money here and there. It is very understandable to us that, if the working population is falling, we must also reduce the state apparatus. But we can see again that it's going to be somewhere wrong from the beginning. The cuts are being made somewhere in the periphery of administrative areas, but at the same time the objectives of which, under the name of the state reform, are much talked about, to avoid excessive regulation in legislation and increase in bureaucracy, to reduce duplication, are like unaddressed. At first reading, Andres Ammas, on behalf of the Free Party Group, said that this was a quiet ticking budget. But since we have not received exhaustive answers to macro-economic indicators, in the meantime we have had the fear that it might not be a quiet ticking, sometimes it is quite a dangerous time bomb ticking. In any case, any silent ticking will end badly, and that is why we have a suggestion that something must be done. It can't go on like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U139	Thank you. Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U140	Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Looks like after the Minister's long pinch last night, people are running out of juice. But I will then present my group's positions when the budget has finally arrived at our table. I fully agree with the previous speaker that the budget does not satisfy the opposition parties. There is more than one problem. In particular, however, I would also like to point out that budget transparency is very poor. After all, you could throw a budget on the table of the Riigikogu, which has exactly two rows of revenue, and the other one is expenses, and say that this is what happens. Having now seen ministers in almost all areas of life in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, it must be said that even ministers themselves do not know where they have one or the other cost. Worse than that, they won't talk if they don't ask. A number of national activities are simply hidden away. This is not in line with a functioning pluralist democratic society if taxpayers do not know where their money is spent, how its use in the budget is determined. I fully agree to admit that when a country is ruled by a coalition, the form of the budget coalition is, it states their priorities. In our opinion, the biggest deficit in the budget is that there is no provision for transitional national subsidies for agriculture that could be granted in Estonia. That's 21 million or a little bit more. There is certainly a need to provide 15 million of this 21 million is not an overall amount; it has been sectorally distributed. Even if we admit that there is no urgent need to support cereal cultivation this year, the dairy sector, for example, should certainly be supported. At the same time, in the state budget, we see expenditure that we believe is either unjustified or clearly wrong priority expenditure, whether it be millions for refugees or certain investments, the necessity or timeliness of which we consider questionable. The Conservative People's Party will certainly propose improvements in this regard. As regards whether this budget stimulates the Estonian economy or not, we think it is obvious that the budget does not guarantee the stimulation of the Estonian economy, but rather the opposite. These tax increases, which we had to fight here in the first half of this year, are tax increases that hinder economic growth. None of us, as well as employers and employees, are convinced by a tiny reduction in social tax. It is not believable that this is the measure that helps the Estonian economy to grow. Has not been dealt with with the question of return migration, i.e. Estonia's return of its people to Estonia. There is no weakest vision for helping Estonian exports. This, too, is being tackled with a very bureaucratic key. We have a number of state or semi-state institutions that have quite large sums of money to use, but who do not really help the Estonian economy. I agree with the previous speakers that there is no vision to be reached. They accept what is, they are pleased that we are more or less in balance with the budget. At the same time, there is a great deal of confusion about whether the budget is in structural plus or nominal minus. I have a question about that. If we have declared a structurally positive or surplus economy year after year and yet it has been nominally negative every year, so the money has gone more than it has come, then there is a mistake somewhere in it. Everything is being measured somehow wrong. It cannot be that we have an actual cash flow negative over the years, but we report that we have a structurally positive budget. The main advantage of the budget can be considered to be that some of the areas that the government has prioritised have gained some money. However, some declarations are hollow, as the previous speakers have said. The public will definitely feel it in their pockets in the first half of next year. Government promises don't materialize. The big problem with the government is that it is not a budget that grows the economy, it is a budget that moves the economy forward. We are creating reserves that are beginning to reach the same level as the stocks before the crisis, but we are creating them at the cost of not stimulating the economy. And the serious problem, I repeat again, is that the budget is not readable and understandable. You have to be a real insider to figure out where one or the other cost is hidden. The public really does not understand this at all, even if we have the possibility to pinch ministers here. If the plenary of the Riigikogu fails to take into account our proposals on certain redeployments, especially the increase in agricultural subsidies, then we will certainly vote against this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U141	Aivar Sõerd on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U142	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The International Monetary Fund, which has completed its mission in Estonia on Monday, is obviously an objective, competent institution with the best expertise, did not share the pessimism that we heard here from previous speakers. The IMF's assessment of our economy and public finances was clear: we have an economic environment conducive to growth, an impeccable public financial situation, large public investments and efficient public services. And, of course, the IMF usually makes suggestions. All those that they have presented to us deserve to be dealt with in the further debate on the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen, The clear priorities of the 2016 state budget are strengthening Estonia's security, improving people's livelihood and securing responsible public finances. The well-being of families with children will be improved and people's incomes will increase. Looking at the budget plan for next year, the social sphere is emerging. Social protection accounts for most of the budget. There are increasing pensions, rising family benefits and rising income support rates. All of this increases people's well-being and confidence. Strengthening Estonia's security is an emphatically important budget priority. In addition to the increase in the salaries of police and internal security staff, the priority is to build the eastern border. Defence costs will amount to 2.07% of GDP. The total defence budget of 451 million euros guarantees the development of Estonia's defence capabilities and the readiness to meet the challenges of the changed security environment. The state budget and tax policy are the main instruments with which the state can support the development of the economy. It is the task of the State to ensure the functioning of competition, to contribute to the development of infrastructure, to keep the overall economic environment competitive. Public investment will also play a significant role in infrastructure investments in the budget for next year. Road construction accounts for EUR 307 million, which is over 21 million more than this year. The section between railway and road sections, including the Rail Baltic terminal and the airport, will be reconstructed, for example, the intersection of Russalka and Haaberst in Tallinn. The economic environment is very well illustrated by the overall tax burden and does not grow. It remains at 33% of GDP, which is significantly lower than the average in the European Union and guarantees our ability to compete with other countries. In the name of fiscal consolidation, many countries have had to increase the tax burden in recent years. We will lose the share of labour taxes in the structure of tax revenues, which will mainly result from an increase in the tax-free minimum and the tax-free rate for pensions next year. Thus, the share of labour taxes that has already started in previous years continues to decrease, which is really offset by the increase in consumption taxes in the structure of tax revenues, but, as a whole, these changes contribute to increasing growth opportunities for the economy. The previous speakers claimed that there was no vision for the future. I wonder whether improving the economic environment and improving the country's competitiveness are not the right, appropriate and necessary objective, as well as improving people's livelihood and well-being. Domestic demand has also been the driving force for growth in our economy and will remain a factor for growth in the coming years. Real wages for workers continue to increase, while price increases remain moderate, giving consumers confidence. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U143	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U144	Public investment plays an important role in the economy. The IMF also noted in its recent report that the share of these investments compared to other countries is a feature of our economy. And, of course, the greater the impact of these investments, the more they go into productivity-enhancing areas. The volume of public investment next year is 480 million euros, which is 57 million euros, or just over 13% more than this year. In addition, the investments of Riigi Kinnisvara AS amount to just over 50 million euros. This creates additional demand in the construction sector. The share of foreign funds in the total investment volume is smaller than the share of Estonia's own funds: the share of foreign funds is 40%. The budget also supports those sectors that are in difficulty, including agriculture. Improving productivity is certainly the factor by which public investment can be assessed. The Enterprise Estonia is currently implementing measures to enhance the competitiveness of our companies in foreign markets, as well as innovation and technological and product development. KredEx offers loans to companies, venture capital credit insurance and guarantees with state guarantees. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support the budget and also call on you to engage in constructive discussions. If the Riigikogu decides that there is a need and an opportunity to provide additional resources for the education sector or agriculture or anywhere, then we must also take into account that if we want to increase any costs, we also need to find sources of cover for them. I wish everyone every success in further processing the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U145	Thank you. And now I would like to ask for the Speaking Chair of Kalvi Tough, representative of the Social Democratic Party! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U146	Good chairman of the sitting! Good friends! With the state budget, we all have our own expectations. And when the bill was handed over, you could see and hear that these expectations were not limited to a year. However, we must acknowledge that we do not have a bottomless wallet for all the expenses we need. Nor will a single budget lay down a series of following years or the extremely long future of Estonian finances. In order to reach our goals, we need to work step by step and in a prudent way, not by living beyond our means. These principles are precisely reflected in the 2016 budget, where we are taking responsible steps to reach a greater goal in the long term. The opposition representatives have been talking for a long time about the budgetary shortcomings. The Social Democrats alone in the government would certainly have made a somewhat different budget, as would probably the Reform Party and the IRL, if they had managed to do the government alone. But the coalition government makes a budget with its partners, and it includes not only the necessary sources of funding to meet the important programme commitments of all parties involved. A budget that lowers taxes and increases subsidies at the same time can be spoken of sitting in the opposition. This is unless the loss of credibility is considered to be a problem. The budget for the coming year will have a strong social democratic content. Its focus is on the Estonian people, it is child- and family-centred, and it improves the livelihood of very many people, ensuring that the more vulnerable and weaker members of society receive more support from their state. There is reason to reiterate that the budget for the coming year will be an important interim phase by valuing children and families with children. In the coming year, child benefit will rise by more than 10%, i.e. to EUR 50, but it will continue to increase to EUR 60. The rise in the income support rate from the current €90 to €130 will contribute to improving the well-being of families. Good friends! I would point out that this is a significant rise in the subsistence limit over the last decade. In combination, this rise will contribute to ensuring that children do not grow up in poverty. This work must continue in the same direction in the future. The Estonian state must be able to provide a safe environment for all children, regardless of their parents' income. The budget is also of great interest to our older generation every year. I don't think they'll be disappointed. The 2016 pension increase will come to the maximum amount that is possible for revenue from the budget. In April, the average old-age pension will rise to 396 euros, while remaining exempt from income tax. Let's go, agriculture. Agriculture is what everyone here is talking about. Dear friends, in the budget for next year, we will do more than the maximum minimum. Agricultural payments, and the money that goes to farmers, cannot be seen as just top-up. Estonia's agriculture is in crisis and, in order to alleviate this crisis, there will be exceptional support coming from the state budget, which will amount to 7.6 million in this year and in the following years. This will be complemented by money from the European Union. And we cannot review or rewrite the sums that come from the European Union and our joint work: total direct payments are 114.6 million in the budget, 161 million in the rural development plan. I would also like to remind you that this year, under the direction of our agricultural organisations, our common area payment will not increase at the maximum rate that we could have paid, but we will channel this money more into the rural development agenda, in which farmers, in particular, will receive support. The budget, with its numerous lines, is an honest document because you cannot close your eyes or embellish your numbers in front of expenditure. There are also a number of loose ends in today's first-reading budget. A lot has been said recently about teachers' pay. For us, it is not a question of whether teachers should be paid a decent salary. Of course, there could be a considerable wage increase immediately; unfortunately, it must be said that this increase is likely to fall short of what is desired. However, we consider it very important that teachers' salaries increase. It's very, very important to us. We must also look seriously at planned redundancies and cuts in the public sector. Everyone understands that work can be done more effectively and that it can and will be cut where it is possible. At the same time, care must be taken to ensure that cuts do not go too far so that there is common sense behind the proposed numbers of redundancies. The cuts must not lead to a situation where the state is no longer able to perform certain necessary tasks. Perhaps in a bit: it is not conceivable that we will ever have a few dozen superpolice across Estonia, all of whom can do everything, but because of the lack of time, we will never get anywhere. Good friends! We have before us the vision of the government for the next financial year. Parliamentary debates on the budget have only just begun. The Social Democrats look forward to an argumentative and responsible debate and meaningful proposals. The well-being of the Estonian people will not be improved by empty pastimes in this hall or by slogans. Dear friends, we are not ashamed of this budget. We also notice the Reform Party and the IRL, in addition to our own features, and that is how it should be, because we did this budget together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U147	Thank you. Please, Mr Kiisler, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U148	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! What do we expect from a proper draft budget? Of course, we all want to rejoice with those who are satisfied with the rise in child support and the rise in several other social benefits at all. At the same time, I would like to sigh with those who complain that these increases are too low, the subsidies are too small However, the IRL expects one properly draft budget law, above all, that public finances will be in order at the end of next year, just as it is today in general, that the working person will have confidence that businesses will have confidence. It is a conservative, sustainable fiscal policy that is one of the essential prerequisites for economic growth. In order for this to be the case, we must be guided by reality. The nominal growth of our economy, i.e. with inflation, is predicted to be 5.5%, tax revenue is expected to increase by 5.3%. This gives us a clear framework for what budget is responsible. Yes, this forecast has been made by experts and I cannot in any way agree with the view of the Free Party that the government should take political responsibility for the economic forecast. It was a quote. I think that is even a very dangerous position. I know a European country where political responsibility for all economic forecasts was taken, and this is Greece. There were economic experts making one forecast, but politicians said that they did not want to be responsible for such a forecast; they would be responsible for a completely different forecast. And the consequences are there. I very much ask that under no circumstances do Estonia go this way, so that no political forces support this path, so that politicians themselves start setting forecasts out of the blue. The government cannot take political responsibility for such a thing; it must be the experts, the economic experts. What else is responsible about this budget? It is certainly important to try to ensure that our country is sound in a situation where our population is falling. This focuses on reforms and austerity. I want to congratulate the government on the fact that the budget is intended to bring together 750 employees. This is a bold step that has not been taken in recent years. It is not easy to come up with such proposals, but there will be considerable savings in their implementation. Additional savings are also due to a 3% reduction in management costs across management areas. Reducing government employment will have to bring additional savings of EUR 13 million. There are more examples of this from the budget. It is very positive that the government has reached an agreement and taken such steps. It is certainly responsible to contribute to the budget for those people who prefer to work for social benefits. This really stimulates the economy. And if more money is left to the working people, then this money will move into consumption, the turnover of companies will grow, the economy will grow. The tax refund initiated by the IRL for low-paid people will become a reality with this budget and people earning minimum wages, for example, will receive the entire income tax paid next year. This is a big step forward. It's worth going to work, even if the pay is low. I would also like to talk about one area which, although in no way in any way, raises the economy, namely local authorities. It was argued here that it would certainly be useful if the municipal budgets were to grow. But then, my friends, we have to ask what these budgets are going to grow for. It is not in itself worth that one public institution gets a little more money and the other by a little less. What matters is what area this money is used to promote. Let me give you an example. If some upper secondary schools have gone to the state and therefore their salary is no longer covered by the municipality and because of this the municipal budget has decreased, is it good or bad? How do you measure it? Let us not talk about separate institutions, talk about the areas on which money is spent, talk about what it is used for. When money is used to develop entrepreneurship, it is understandable. If, for example, transport infrastructure is invested, as is the case in this budget, this is a clear and positive step. You shouldn't talk about the fact that this ministry got a little more or the other one had a little less growth. The geographical location of a small country like us is such that it is certainly responsible to allocate enough money to develop the defence sector to ensure the security of the country. There are also people in this Chamber who have made proposals to reduce defence costs and to use this money elsewhere. I hope that we will now take into account the new realities and no one will dare come up with proposals of this kind. And if so, no one will take such proposals seriously. For years, the IRL has been standing up for our defence expenditure to represent 2% of gross domestic product, and we are really glad that this percentage is even somewhat higher today. To sum it up. When we are here discussing how to improve the budget, and as the Minister of Finance said in his good presentation, this budget has also been changed here and still for the better, it is not wise to overwhelm each other in areas with unrealistic demands where there is no more money. There's just no place left to take it. Let us discuss together how this budget can better support the working person and the growth of our economy. In this sense, I very much agree with one of the previous speakers. Because if a working person is doing better, if he wants to do a job and wants to work in Estonia, and if the entrepreneur feels safe, then we will have more money in the coming years, which will be reallocated in the next budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U149	Thank you. I will conclude negotiations on the draft State Budget Act 2016. The first reading of Bill 103 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 103 amendments. a 4 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U150	We will proceed to the second item on the agenda: First reading of the draft Act 84 on the amendment of the Labour Capacity Allowance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. The rapporteur is Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U151	Dear Riigikogu! I will give you an overview of the content of the 84 draft law initiated by the Government of the Republic. The draft law amending the Employment Allowance Act and related amendments to other laws does not recommend changing the principles of employment capacity reform, but making changes to the laws already adopted which are necessary for better implementation of the reform. A number of aspects have been identified in the preparation of the implementation of the Employment Allowance Act, which were overlooked in the drafting process, but which need to be taken into account. In view of the need to develop the information systems of several institutions and to prepare implementing acts for the implementation of the amendments, the draft proposal postpones the entry into force of the Act by six months. The date of entry into force of the Act is now 1 January 2016, according to the draft, but will enter into force on 1 July 2016. At the same time, labour market services and social welfare services related to labour capacity reform will start on 1 January 2016. These enforcement deadlines shall not be postponed. The volume of the bill is quite large. It's a big bill. The reason is not that there are a lot of important changes, but that since technical changes are made to the laws that have not yet entered into force, the paragraphs had to be rewritten in full. That's why the bill looks very thick, but there aren't so many changes. The amendments may be divided into six groups. There is also a great deal of technical work that I am not focusing on here, and I will mention only the major changes. Firstly, the amendments aimed at preventing the emergence of a period of no income on the transition from incapacity for work to incapacity benefit, i.e. from old to new schemes. Secondly, changes to simplify the simultaneous application of the "one-stop-shop" policy for assessing work ability and detecting disability severity. Thirdly, the amendments that directly concern the postponement of the work capacity reform by half a year and, in this context, the alignment of the implementing provisions with time. There are further changes to specify the calculation of the amount of compensation and the causal link between damage to health and the crime of violence, accidents at work, occupational diseases, road accidents and the performance of a duty. As has been said, the draft will postpone the transition from 1 January to 1 July 2016. There are several reasons for this. Perhaps the most important thing is that the launch of the reform requires the completion of the right number of information systems. In particular, I am thinking of the new information system of the Social Insurance Board called the SKAIS2, which was a little optimistic at the beginning. By delaying the entry into force of the law, we will certainly be able to ensure that everything is in order in due time to ensure that implementation takes place without problems. Of course, for other institutions, for example, the thorough preparation of the various work on the assessment of performance is a substantial undertaking and the postponement of the deadline gives additional assurance that we will be able to make all the preparations well. One change has in mind the objective of preventing an income gap in the transition from disability pension to disability benefit. It is true that the disability pension is paid one month in advance, while the future disability allowance is paid one month afterwards. This showed that when people switched to the new scheme, they would have a one-month income gap. It will be resolved in such a way that people do not have a hole in their income in the meantime. In addition, the law amends a number of more technical points that I will not focus on in this introductory report. I'm ready to explain everything by answering questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U152	Thank you. You have questions too. Please, Thomas Vitsu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U153	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. People with partial working capacity need to be offered significantly more "protected" social jobs. How and with whom does the Ministry intend to create more jobs?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U154	Thank you. As I indicated, labour market services intended for the target group of the employment capacity reform on 1 January 2016 will enter into force. The Unemployment Insurance Fund is on track to prepare them and is currently actively looking for partners in the provision of services. Of course, in the case of services where we have so far had good cooperation partners, they are primarily working with them. However, for some tasks, such as assessing the ability to work, this is a whole new issue and looking for new partners with whom to provide these services. However, in general, these services have been thoroughly discussed, including with the target groups concerned and their providers. The unemployment fund has confirmed they're on schedule.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U155	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. As from 1 January 2016, the unemployment fund, as well as local authorities, should provide both additional services and completely new services for people with disabilities or who have lost their capacity to work. The local government associations have not agreed the draft Social Welfare Act to the Riigikogu, because they have to impose additional obligations on them without allocating additional money. How do you intend to solve this problem? We do not see this solution in the pending draft State Budget Act 2016.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U157	Thank you. The Social Welfare Act, which has reached the Riigikogu as a separate draft, is not directly related to this draft package, although it is basically. The Social Welfare Act falls within the responsibility of the Minister for Social Protection Margus Tsahkna. I believe that he will soon be here before you to talk about the draft law on social welfare, and then you will certainly be able to discuss what are the additional obligations that come to the local authorities. We also had this discussion in the Government of the Republic before we approved this draft. In general, very many changes are rather a clarification of existing services. Many of these additional conditions are so reasonable and elementary that there is no reason to claim that local governments need extra money to provide them. At the same time, for certain services, local authorities also have an additional task of providing a better quality service. I believe that the country has the right to impose such additional rules. How discussions have taken place with local government associations on the extent to which these additional commitments are and whether additional funds should be allocated to them can be answered by the Minister for Social Protection, Margus Tsahkna.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U158	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U159	Mr President, Minister, in the role of the Prime Minister. I'm asking a pretty specific question. This law has been greatly amended or improved. At first, it was accepted as quite cubat. I would like to say that it is important not only to have jobs, but also to get there. One particular man has tried to provide his services in rural areas for people to work and elsewhere, but when he asked the Ministry of Social Affairs to help him acquire an invalid, your officials replied that if the turnover is over EUR 125000, you could talk, but the poor man only has EUR 10,000. But people with disabilities would also like to get out of the house. What would you say to him and to other people like him?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U160	Thank you. Unfortunately, I am not familiar with this particular case, I can specify that. However, the general philosophy of the work capacity reform is that it is indeed necessary to help people whose ability to work has been permanently reduced to work. To do so, different people need different services, different help. Some people need tools to do this, others need to rebuild their homes or workplaces or help traveling to work. All these services are also planned in cooperation with the Social Insurance Board and the unemployment fund. Of course, there are also conditions for granting different grants that have been negotiated with target groups. There's no way to spend money anywhere. It is clear that these measures must have certain cost effectiveness. But if we look at all the money that goes into the work capacity reform, I would say that this is a qualitative change in how the state helps people with partial employment capacity to participate in the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U161	Dmitri Dmitriev.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U162	Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister, thank you very much. You argued that the purpose of this draft was not to make significant changes to the reform of working capacity, but rather technical changes. Since we also have a draft state budget on the agenda, I am asking about the prices of rehabilitation services, which have remained at the same level for years. The authorities providing these services argue that these prices are long overdue. Thus, a number of institutions have given up providing services. Are there plans to increase the prices of rehabilitation services next year and make them cost-oriented?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U163	Thank you. This issue is only partly related to the work capacity reform, but in order to provide rehabilitation services, the budget for next year will receive significantly more public money. It's an agreement in the government of the Republic. But at the health insurance fund, we will certainly also discuss issues concerning the prices of services. However, I think we could stay within the scope of this issue when discussing this draft. If you have specific questions about rehabilitation services, I will be happy to accept them in writing and I will be happy to reply in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U164	Thank you. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U165	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Following the public coordination round, a provision supplementing the Motor Insurance Act was included in this draft. This will provide the insurer with direct access to the health information system, i.e. the CIS data. It's a rather unpleasant surprise. After all, there has been a long talk about who has the right to see the health information system and who doesn't. A precedent will now be established and access granted to insurers. What do you think of that? The Data Protection Inspectorate has, however, taken the view that this provision should be removed because it is not justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U166	I certainly agree with this assessment that health data is very sensitive and must be handled with extreme caution. I am aware that the Data Protection Inspectorate has raised this problem. At the moment, no consensual solution has been reached in the negotiations between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Data Protection Inspectorate, but in any case I believe that this is an important issue. The Riigikogu could form its own opinion on this issue, on the one hand, on the basis of the desire to ensure sound regulation, i.e. that the procedure of different cases should be organised in the most appropriate way possible, but on the other hand, that the health data should be handled with caution, so that they cannot be used for anything other than the purpose of identifying the relationship between a specific accident and incapacity for work. I really ask the Committee on Social Affairs to take this issue seriously and discuss it. The Ministry of Social Affairs is ready to find a compromise.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U167	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U168	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Most of the sources of service are known to come from Europe. How much and what costs will the unemployment fund cover?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U169	Now, I have to look here on the papers. The cost of providing labour market services and support is covered by 85% of the European Social Fund and 15% of the unemployment fund's equity. The budget is EUR 101 million for the years 2016 to 2019. The maximum budgetary cost of the state is the payment of social tax for persons with partial or no capacity to work, which is planned for half-year in 2016 at 13.8 million euros and for the period 2016 to 2019 at 112 million euros in total. So most of the labour market services are provided with European Social Fund money, which is 85%, and 15% of the unemployment fund's target capital comes from self-financing. The state compensates for special cases of social tax through the unemployment fund. That's the big deal. There are also activities that are more indirect in this regard, such as the development of the same information system of the Social Insurance Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U170	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U171	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good minister! In coordinating the draft, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People drew attention to a number of things that they did not like. Among others, there was also a reference to the fact that a person in the order of special care needs to receive the service within three months when the place is released. If he doesn't, he's gonna lose this place. Often these things do not depend on a person's own will. Is it absolutely necessary to have three months, and does there have to be such a regulation? As far as welfare is concerned, every case is different, and so we are trying to put the law together here. Is such a deadline needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U172	Thank you. The aim of this amendment is to improve the availability of special care services, which is why such a deadline has been proposed. It seems to me that such regulation is reasonable. And this regulation provides, among other things, that people are to be taken out of line if they have not left the service within three months and there is no valid reason for not going. If a person has a valid cause, it will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U173	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U174	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. A good minister in the duties of Prime Minister! According to § 601 of the Act, prosecutors do not need to assess their ability to work when they receive employment benefits. My question is, why did this rush to the prosecutors and why wasn't that clause in the law before?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U175	Ouch! That's a great question, because I can't answer that question. I'll find out and answer you in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U176	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U177	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Waitress! I would like to ask the question: did you attend a presentation at the conference centre today and understand what the partial loss of working capacity is? Do you realize what it means to lose some of your ability to work and to help people like that? You're reading numbers on paper, but when you come into contact with people in real life, there's a whole different blade. There were, by the way, a great many members of the Riigikogu who were shame-shame-shame-shame! just took the event as a joke. With a big scream and laughter, they drove wheelchairs and put headphones on. What do you say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U178	Thank you. I have carried out various tasks today and did not participate in the event you referred to. Work capacity reform is one of the largest social reforms in recent years. This is a very fundamental, important reform. On the one hand, it is, of course, also a reform aimed at optimising public social spending. But what I think is even more important is that it is basically helping people with partial employment capacity to work. We have a lot of people who either have a disability or can't work on their own for any other reason, without help. I don't think it's wise to tell these people that we're paying you a little money and then do whatever you want. These people also want to be full members of society in social terms. For historical reasons too, our society has generally tried to hide people with special needs behind the closet. Let them out there somewhere, let's pay them some money, and all the jam. That doesn't make any sense! We need to do everything we can to make people with special needs, people with partial work capacity feel like full members of society. To this end, we must ensure the necessary measures, the necessary assistance by the state, so that they can contribute to society, including the labour market. Of course, when major reforms are being carried out that fundamentally change the whole concept so that the unemployment fund receives a number of new tasks and requires coordinated cooperation between the Social Insurance Institute, local authorities and the unemployment fund, as well as changing employers' attitudes, this naturally creates fears. Of course it does! Some of these fears are justified. We have also received such feedback from the target groups and we have taken this into account, because these are justified fears. Do we have 100% certainty that everything that is planned and planned and thought through in connection with the reform of the capacity for work will be a great start? There's no fortress! Of course it isn't, because we're doing a big thing, we're doing it for the first time, and it's very complex. Perhaps some of the labour market services that we have thought through do not provide an adequate effect. Perhaps some services need to be provided significantly more, perhaps some levels of compensation need to be increased or reduced in the future. But these risks and fears don't mean we don't do anything at all. This means that we will try to gather information on the basis of what we know today, create a system that is as good as possible, and then, together, start implementing it successfully. Of course, we are aware that we need to be flexible when there are any bottlenecks, something needs to be changed quickly. The Ministry of Social Affairs has made this clear to itself. Activities have also been agreed following the entry into force of the employment capacity reform, a continuous analysis of the effectiveness of the various measures is ongoing, and we will have further discussions and calculations on how the reform has taken place. We have the willingness to respond flexibly to the shortcomings that have emerged. And in this context, I say that any constructive feedback, including criticism, is welcome. As far as possible, let's take this into account. With the approach that there's going to be a new system, and maybe something goes wrong, and let's not do anything, but I can't agree in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U179	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U180	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is the question of Külliki Hatter. You said that 15% must be borne by the state and this is done by paying social security contributions for these people. Could you please specify which source this 15% comes from? Will this money be granted from the state budget in addition to the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund or will the reserves accumulated in the unemployment fund be used?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U181	Thank you. I must have made an incorrect statement. Looking at the financial plan for the employment capacity reform, we can see that the largest sources of expenditure are covered by the state budget. Firstly, the labour market services package, which is intended for the target group of the employment capacity reform and for which specific services have been endorsed at the level of the regulation. Another higher cost is to compensate employers for social tax when it comes to employees who have a special nature in the payment of social tax. There are still costs, but they're smaller, and I'm not going to talk about them right now. A total of EUR 100 million has been earmarked for the provision of labour market services in 2016-2019. Of this 100 million, 85 million is support from the European Social Fund and 15 million, or 15% is co-financing from our country, and this money comes from the trust fund of the unemployment fund. The unemployment fund has a separate foundation from where the money comes from. This second amount, which is necessary to pay the social tax of persons subject to a special social tax, amounts to EUR 112,3 million in the period 2016 to 2019. I'm talking about my head right now, but I think I'm not wrong. The mechanism is that money is transferred from the state budget to the unemployment fund, which compensates employers. I think the scheme is meant to be this way. The costs of the capacity allowance are also covered by the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U182	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U183	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. The success of this reform depends on these people being found a job. According to the plan of the Ministry of Social Affairs, at least 1000 people with reduced working capacity will have to be employed in the general government by 2020. You have sent a letter to the ministries and the Office of the President, but they are not very impressed with your proposal. The Office of the President was quite offended by the fact that you were writing to them what they had to do. But I'm asking in this light that the state plans to reduce the number of officials by 750 next year, I think. How do these figures fit in like this? You're planning to raise 1,000 people. Is that 1,000 more people to be fired in ministries? That's a pretty big number. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U184	Thank you. Firstly, it is not the plan of the Ministry of Social Affairs, it is the plan of the previous Social Committee of the Riigikogu. It was written under the law of Heljo Pikhof. I think that makes sense. As I said, we really have concerns about employers' attitudes. My clear view is that the public sector must set an example on this issue, and it would be very sensible for it to show it. It is enshrined in the law and, of course, the Ministry of Social Affairs must ensure that this happens. It is natural that in this case all administrative areas, as well as local authorities, would contribute to this objective. If we take the number of civil servants and by that we distribute 1,000 people with partial employment capacity, about half of them should go to local governments and half to the public sector. But this does not mean that 1 000 new jobs will be created. And this is the target for 2020. This requires a proper reflection of the human resources policy, as well as a clear inclusion in the staff policy of ministries and agencies, that if they have a job vacancy, for example, some people leave work, it is offered preferably to people with partial employment capacity. There will certainly be no additional jobs. Looking at the flow of the frame in different institutions, it can be said that five years is long enough to fill these places so that these people can work there.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U185	Thank you, Prime Minister of Health and Labour. No further questions for you. Let's move on, the Social Affairs Committee waitress is Jüri Jaanson, member of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U186	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the preparation of a draft Act 84 on the amendment of the Employment Capacity Allowance Act and related amendments to other laws in a total of four sessions. First of all, on 28 September, when ministers presented us with the principles of the amendments and announced that the entry into force of the law would be postponed by six months. This is due to the fact that there is a need to amend the laws adopted to implement the reform and to ensure an additional period of time for the amendments to be made. It is also necessary to ensure a high-quality performance assessment service. The members of the Commission listened to the Minister's explanations, asked him questions and received answers. At the next meeting on 29 September, representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs once again explained the content of the draft and answered questions from the members of the Commission. They asked, among other things, how the assessment of working capacity was carried out at the unemployment fund. It was explained that people who perform certain tasks are appointed internally, but generally the unemployment fund buys this service from the health care provider. The processing of health data was also investigated and it was known that the right to process health data is provided by the health service provider, a person who has received medical training or another person in the case provided for by law. However, the unemployment fund is likely to employ some people with medical education to analyse whether the expert judgements made in the assessment of the ability to work are competent. At this meeting of the Commission, it was decided to propose that the draft law be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 21 October and that Mr Jüri Jaanson, member of the Social Committee, be appointed rapporteur. These decisions were taken by consensus. The third meeting took place on 13 October and was public. It discussed the amendment of the Employment Capacity Allowance Act and related amendments to other laws with the participation of target groups and other relevant institutions. The meeting included representatives of the Estonian Association of Blind People, the Estonian Association of People with Disabilities, the Harjumaa People with Disabilities, the Estonian Association of Professional Patients, the Estonian Motor Insurance Fund, the Saue Linna Invalidity Association, the Estonian Association of Rural Municipalities, AS Hoolekandeteenused and the Association of Estonian Rehabilitation Institutions. The presentation was made by representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the unemployment fund and the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People. The last Commission debate, which took place on 15 October, took procedural decisions. First, the date for discussion was changed in plenary and was set at 20 October, but the debate was postponed to 21 October. It was proposed that the first reading be closed, with 4 votes against and 2 abstentions. The deadline for the amendments was 5.15 p.m. on 4 November 2015. This proposal was adopted by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U187	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Let's go to the negotiations. Monika Haukanõmm, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U188	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Employment Allowance Act was passed in the Riigikogu on 19 November 2014. Apparently, most members of the Riigikogu remember that many years ago when there was a great deal of tension in the air and opposition to the adoption of the law. It even ended up bringing the roadrolls to the castle square after which the new people began to use the expression 'to make the road roll'. Today, we have before us a draft law amending the Act on Disability Allowances. This means that we are going to change the law that has not even entered into force yet. And these are not only minor technical improvements, but also quite fundamental changes, with a number of technical improvements. Let it be made clear here that I have supported the reform and its idea from the start and that I have considered it right. This means that every disabled person who can and wishes to work must have all the necessary conditions for doing so, starting from the fact that we have a good view of disabled people in society and considering them to be equal to others, and ending up with the availability of essential services to them. Of course, people with disabilities can still work now, and many also work, but I'm sure you'd like to do more. It's just not always possible. Why, there's a question. Because, on the one hand, we treat people with disabilities as pensioners and have given them a passive, 'no expectations' role in society. We expect nothing from them and take them rather than the beneficiaries, not the contributors. In my opinion, this is the greatest positive result of the reform if society's awareness of the needs of people with disabilities is growing and taken as equal fellow citizens in society. It's actually a matter of human dignity. But we come back to today and to the amendments to the law before us. For me, the biggest question remains why it was necessary to push through this draft so quickly and forcefully last year, despite the reproach that the reform has begun at the wrong end and the preconditions for success have not been created. I am thinking here of the biggest deficit that the services needed to work are not equally available to everyone, or sometimes are not completely available. The Estonian Chamber of Disabled People repeatedly drew attention to the need to postpone the entry into force of the Act, stating very clearly that six months is the minimum time, better than an extension of the year. Today we know there's really time. At this point, I would like to recall the Estonian proverb, which teaches me to measure and cut once nine times. We're actually talking about 100,000 people with disabilities. I admit that the postponement is a very good decision, because entry into force in a few months would be utopia and we must not start dealing with human trials that suddenly succeeds and goes right, maybe the assessment methodology is working and the necessary doctors are there, and maybe the municipalities will start providing these services. Now we have to admit that the bill has become much better and more meaningful, but there are still some problems, and I will talk about them a little bit. I'll focus on four. As a first unpleasant surprise, the bill revealed that we are in the process of establishing a precedent for giving insurers access to data on the health information system. In order for them to be able to use these data directly, it is proposed to amend the Motor Insurance Act. The Data Protection Inspectorate has pointed out that this should definitely not be done. The saddest thing is that this amendment was made after the draft had passed the round of coordination and it was forgotten that important points should be renegotiated. This is not an example of good regulation. Secondly, the draft aims to amend the Social Benefits for Persons with Disabilities Act by abolishing unemployment benefit and replacing it with the Travel Allowance from the unemployment fund. This amendment cannot be accepted either. There are two reasons for this. Firstly, the proposed amendment would eliminate the type of support that is not compensated for by a disabled person working with another type. The employment allowance allows for flexibility in covering the extra costs of actual work-related disabilities, whether they are fast-wearing shoes, artificial breasts carried at work, expensive jacket, which a university disabled worker wears at meetings with ministers or the President or at some kind of act, and which he has to buy five pieces a year, because the sleeves of the jacket wear quickly when touching the wheelchair wheel, etc. Such costs do not allow the new types of aid to be covered, and some of the benefits offered in place are of a temporary nature. However, the unemployment allowance has been permanent and may have been applied for every three years. For almost ten years, the social benefit rate for people with disabilities has not been raised. Such a situation, in which the rate has long failed to meet the cost of living for disabled people and the types of support disappear, does not comply with the meaning of the law or with the principles of the social state. The loss of employment allowance leads to a situation where people's livelihoods have deteriorated. The reason was given by the fact that this support is small and used by a small number of people. Yes, there is a small amount of EUR 356 for three years. But why is support low and why are there few applicants? Because we have made it extremely difficult to apply for this: it is intended to collect and submit cheques to the Social Insurance Board and to prove that these are necessary additional costs due to disability. Thirdly, I am talking about the amendment to the Social Tax Act. The Minister also said that at present this advantage cannot be used by public bodies such as universities, libraries, schools, etc. This means that they are not very interested in recruiting people with disabilities. Four, one door policy. It was established by the previous Riigikogu. It is a very right policy, a very legitimate one. But we should see if it actually works. Disabled people have pointed out that one door policy is not real at present. There are still several doors from which they have to go in. There are repeated assessments and repeated visits. However, I can talk about concrete examples in the Commission. Finally. The Committee on Social Affairs has received a great many opinions on this draft, although it has not even reached its first reading. This in itself shows that target groups and stakeholders are concerned. They offer their help and knowledge, which we must take very seriously. Inclusion must be meaningful and real, not apparent. In August Siiri Oviir said the sentence: 'The proposals made by citizens will not be forgotten as soon as they get out of the table. ' I hope that this sentence is true today, here and now. I hope that all the political groups will take the proposed proposals seriously, and it will be decided very soon that people with disabilities will retain the possibility of receiving employment support, that they will benefit from the special nature of social tax, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U189	Thank you. Dmitri Dmitriev, representative of the Central Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U190	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank my colleague, who was here earlier, for a very meaningful presentation. The Employment Allowance Act was passed in the Riigikogu in November last year. We all remember protests by people with disabilities and other interest groups against this law, starting with demonstrations and ending with performances in the media. One of the most vocal critics of the law was Margus Tsahkna, member of the Social Committee of the Riigikogu at the time. Hoping for support in defending their interests, several spokespersons for disabled people applied for in the Riigikogu elections on the IRL list. This party specifically promised to protect the interests of people with disabilities. Substantive changes were promised in the implementation of the employment capacity reform, including the provision of the necessary support services and rehabilitation for those with partial employment capacity. All of this is for a good cause to help people get a job. At the meeting of the Social Committee held on 14 May, the state of play of the labour capacity reform, problems and possible timetable for implementation were discussed. Margus Tsahkna, then Minister for Social Protection, and Rannar Vassilyev, Minister for Health and Labour, justified the need to postpone some of the activities and enforcement of the law. Among other things, it became clear that the already adopted Employment Capacity Allowance Act needs to be amended to 60% because of shortcomings, errors and technical problems. Today, there's a package of legislative changes on the table in front of us. According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, one of the main objectives of the amendments is to postpone the entry into force of the law by six months. Some of the changes concern the so-called one-door principle, which was included in the law when the draft was processed in the Riigikogu last year and which is also justified. In addition, there are a number of technical changes that will correct the drafting errors of the law that we have adopted in a hurry, which we have talked about today. And that's basically it. No changes in substance have been made. It is still unclear whether people who have lost some of their capacity to work will receive adequate support services and who will provide them. Work and social rehabilitation are another problem. Many institutions providing this service have abandoned or are abandoning the provision of services because prices do not cover costs and work does not pay off. Although the Minister promised today that the state budget procedure would seek to remedy this situation, according to the timetable for the reform, local authorities should provide the necessary assistance and services as early as 1 January 2016. The draft law on social welfare which regulates this has not even reached the first reading in the Riigikogu. And the municipal associations have not coordinated the draft, as the funding for guaranteeing services is unsolved for them. Insufficient information systems, large gaps in eHealth have also been cited in the ex-ante evaluation. How can an assessment of a person's ability to work be made when the data needed for the assessment is not really available? The Data Protection Inspectorate also referred to the shortcomings of the information system in its address, mentioning that the health information system is a population-wide, enforced database containing data from the most intimate sphere of human activity, where only formally correct solutions are not acceptable. It is not enough if, according to the law alone, everything is fine. The reform that hastened and unthinkable creates confusion both in the legislative process and in the day-to-day activities, not to mention about 100,000 people who are the subject of this reform. They were allowed heaven's manna, but reality can be harsh. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party gives priority to substantive changes in the form of specific services, activities and funding. In cooperation with employers, suitable jobs must be created with the necessary working conditions. The need for social jobs is great and we call for these problems to be resolved before we change the way so many people live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U191	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 84. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft, including 4 November at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed the second item.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U192	We will proceed to the third item on the agenda: Second reading of Bill 66 of ratification of the Act on the Amendment to the Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Prevention of Tax Avoidance, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the People's Republic of China. The rapporteur is Kalvi Tõvi, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U193	Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of Bill 66 took place in this Chamber on 30 September 2015. No amendments were tabled on the draft by the deadline of 14 October at 5.15 p.m. The decisions on the second reading of the bill were taken by the Committee on Monetary Affairs at its meeting on 15 October. The following was decided: to propose a draft to be placed on the plenary agenda on 21 October 2015 (consensus decision) and to hold a final vote on the draft (consensus decision). At first reading, this draft was defended by my colleague, Priit Sibul, on behalf of the Commission, but since he is not in this Chamber today, Kalvi Tõud was appointed rapporteur, as well as by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U194	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. Is there a desire to open negotiations? There is no wish to negotiate. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the 66th draft. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act 66 on the ratification of the Protocol on the Amendment to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, there was no one against, with one abstention. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U195	We will proceed to today's fourth item on the agenda: Second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Securities Markets initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Mr Aivar Sõerd, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U196	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly say once again what is the basic content and purpose of this draft. First of all, the draft brings Estonian law into line with the European Union Directive, which regulates the activities of stock exchange companies. The main objective of this large draft is to make stock exchange trading more attractive to small and medium-sized enterprises. Another major objective is to increase the transparency of the securities market. In order to increase transparency, the notification obligation extends to transactions in more complex financial instruments, which also allow the acquisition of a 5% stake, which in turn creates a notification obligation. It is in the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises that the deadline for publication of the issuer's half-yearly report is extended from two to three months. In addition, the mandatory disclosure frequency of financial statements is reduced. It is also necessary to know that this draft concerns only issuers whose securities are traded on a stock exchange, i.e. it does not concern the alternative market. This draft initiated by the Government of the Republic was discussed by the Monetary Commission in September. The first reading was on 30 September and the deadline for tabling amendments was 14 October. No amendments were received either from the Riigikogu or from the Committee on Monetary Affairs itself. The Committee on Finance discussed the preparation for the second reading on 15 October. As no amendments had been received and no amendments were tabled in the Commission, there was no more discussion on the substance or on the draft provisions at this meeting. The consensual proposal of the lead committee was to conclude the second reading of the draft and send it to the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U197	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a wish to open negotiations? There are no negotiating requests. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 67. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U198	We will move on to today's fifth item: Second reading of the draft Act 68 on the ratification of the Treaty on the Transfer and Sharing of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is a member of the Riigikogu elected from Saaremaa, Hiiumaa and Läänemaa and also a member of the Finance Committee Urve Tiidus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U199	Honorable President! Honourable colleagues! To remind you briefly that the purpose of draft 68 is to ratify an agreement whereby the Member States of the European Union undertake to transfer payments collected from banks to the European Union's Single Resolution Fund. It is a system of security measures in the financial sector, financed by the banks themselves. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft before the second reading on 15 and 19 October. No amendments were received within the deadline. The Commission decided to make technical specifications in the draft relating to the publication of the contract. As the Treaty has not been published in the Official Journal of the European Union or will not be published in the future, it will be published in the Official Journal of that State. Consequently, the text of § 1 has been supplemented by the word 'added' and the vague reference to the Official Journal of the European Union has been deleted. Paragraph 1 reads as follows: 'Ratification of the Agreement on the Transfer and Sharing of Additional Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund, signed by the Republic of Estonia in Brussels on 21 May 2014. ' The Committee on Finance decided to put the draft on the agenda of the Riigikogu for the second reading of 21 October, i.e. today's sitting, to propose that the second reading be stopped and that the final vote be carried out. A majority of the votes required for the adoption of the bill as a law. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U200	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There are no negotiating requests. No amendments have been tabled to the draft and 68 final votes are proposed by the commission. We are going to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act 68 on the ratification of the Treaty on the Transfer and Sharing of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund (SRF) initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 50 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 3 against and no abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U201	We will proceed to today's sixth item on the agenda: First reading of the draft Act amending the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Minister of Finance Sven Sester. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U202	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I hereby give you an overview of the draft law amending the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws, which bears the number 99. This will delay the planned increase in fuel excise duty by one month, i.e. 1 February 2016, by 1 January 2016. In spring, when the country's budget strategy for the years 2016 to 2019 was drawn up, excise revenue was forecasted to rise in excise duties on fuel on 1 February 2016, but unfortunately it did not enter the law as such. I'll be honest with you, it was a human mistake. Alcohol excise duty will rise on 1 February and tobacco excise duty on 1 June, as foreseen in the national budget strategy. The shift in the increase in excise duty will increase revenue in 2016, as the impact of the acquisition of stocks will in this case remain mainly in 2016. Before increasing the rates of excise duties on fuel, we assume, on the basis of earlier years, that merchants will acquire supplies of petrol and diesel. We have based our stock assessment on the increase in excise duties in previous periods. Based on data from the past, it can be assumed that diesel will be mobilized for one month of consumption and for half a month of petrol. As the supply for petrol is small, stockpiling is expected to take place in January 2016. For diesel, it is assumed that a third of the stocks will be acquired in December 2015 and two thirds in January 2016. The impact is expected to be spread over the years as follows: EUR 20.6 million will not be collected in 2015 and EUR 16.4 million will be collected in 2016. The impact of the following year is not one-to-one comparable to that of 2015, as quantities in January are subject to a lower rate of excise duty and this reduces the positive impact. The impact on the consumer price index is marginal. The draft did not pass the normal round of coordination, as the impact on all stakeholders is positive for excise warehouses, fuel sellers, consumers. The law should enter into force as soon as possible before the entry into force of the 2016 state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U203	Thank you. Minister, there are also questions for you. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U204	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Tell me in three words why we're doing this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U205	Thank you. To some extent, I also gave an overview of this in the introduction. I would like to reiterate, then, that in the spring of four years, when we put together the budgetary strategy for 2016 to 2019, we have already planned the balance between expenditure and revenue. We planned that excise duties on fuel and alcohol would rise in February 2016 and tobacco excise duty in June 2016. In later legislation, as I said in the introduction, there was literally a human error and, for some reason, the date for fuel was 1 January. Since the national budget strategy takes into account the share and receipts of revenue and expenditure in the same way, we will correct this mistake. Of course, it is, in the same way, very clearly favourable to consumers, but I would point out here that already in spring it was taken into account in February 1.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U206	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U207	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Officials rarely get brazen praises. May I ask who the clever person was, who discovered this mistake, so that he could be praised in public at once?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U208	As usual, when making a law, all things are generally collective. I can't tell you who that particular person was, who discovered that mistake. But the fact was that the law was passed. It is certainly important to stress that the change we are making now is obviously also positive for the consumer. The increase in excise duties on fuel will be postponed by one month due to this draft, from 1 January to 1 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U209	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U210	Thank you, manager. Minister of Finance! If it was a change of law, maybe it should have been more of a change of law. Your promise and that of the Prime Minister has been that if the neighbours do not come along with the excise policy that is being implemented in Estonia, the excise policy must be reviewed. The excise duty on diesel fuel will rise by 14% next year, only 2% for the Latvians. Wouldn't you still like to keep your promise?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U211	Thank you. I want to say two things. Promises must always be fulfilled, and more so. But at the moment we dealt with excise increases in the spring, we were only discussing and talking about the hypothetical possibility that our neighbours would also increase excise duties. At the time, no one had any more specific information about any excise position. Today I can tell you that there will be increases in all positions in Latvia next year, in terms of alcohol, tobacco and fuel. That is what we expected in spring, but we did not have confidence in it. That's one side. The second thing you mentioned was whether we should look at the law in a complex way. After all, we are dealing with a parliamentary state; the laws are finally passed by Parliament. At the moment, this bill has been given to Parliament to deal with. This is a first reading of the draft, and it is certainly an opportunity for Members to make further changes as a result of their political vision or other ideas.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U212	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U213	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. When you defended the same tax change here in the spring, you said that it would have a tremendously positive impact on the Estonian economy. Now you have come to the conclusion that the impact is rather negative and that the postponement of the amendment will have a positive effect. Would it make sense to cancel this change at all? If excise duties on fuel remained at the current level, the positive impact would be even greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U214	Thank you, good questioner! You're confusing some things a little bit, so I'm taking the liberty of clarifying a little bit. The increase in excise duties on fuel is, by its very nature, always negative. The positive impact comes from what is achieved by the money generated by the increases in excise duty in a particular case. If this money is possible here, however, it is not possible to put the equal sign of reducing labour taxes, for example by reducing social tax, it will certainly have a positive impact on the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U215	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U216	Good President! Good minister! This date game you're talking about is so blurry and incomprehensible. Would you be so kind as to explain to people in clear language why this increase in excise duty needs to be postponed for a month? It seems, however, that there is some trick behind it, that there are third or fourth reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U217	Thank you. No, there's no third or fourth reason. I could have told you from this very remote area that this is a consumer-friendly behaviour and asked if anyone would have any objection if the behaviour was favourable to the consumer. I could have answered you just like that, but actually I told you what this change was about. I'll go over it again. In autumn, the state budget and the national budget strategy will be put together in spring. And if the state budget is made for one year, then the state budget strategy covers four years. The spring national budget strategy was based on excise tax increases according to the dates I told you, and it was 1 February for fuel. If you ask why this date was taken on 1 February in spring, but not 1 January in the case of fuel, tobacco and alcohol, it is always also a question of stock stocks, as I said in the introduction here. Already in the spring, it was estimated that some stocks could be transferred to 2016.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U218	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U219	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! You wisely said that the Riigikogu could make amendments between two readings. I will immediately ask how you would like to take the proposal to replace it with the date of 1 April in this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U220	Thank you. If we want to push this date further, it must be taken into account that the country's budgetary strategy has been based on 1 February. Let us not forget that this bill, as I said, is beneficial to the consumer. This also means that, at some point in time, the country will receive lower excise duties due to lower excise duties, which have been taken into account in the country's budgetary strategy. If there is a desire to push the increase in excise duty further, in your example to 1 April, then we should look at the source of the loss of revenue. Or the other way around, as an alternative, we should look at what costs a country could have to eliminate. So either your income base should be increased or some expenses should be avoided.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U221	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U222	Thank you, manager. Minister of Finance! My colleague Artur Talvik asked what an interesting game is going on here, that it is difficult to understand. I'm trying to understand and ask if I'm wrong. I think the game is about keeping the budget balanced. If 20.6 million will not be collected in 2015 and 16.4 million will be collected in 2016, this will amount to 37 million, which can be further reflected in next year's budget. Isn't that the reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U223	Thank you. You are wrong because in spring, when the budget strategy was put together, the state budget had not yet reached its final stage. I assure you, you're wrong right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U224	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U225	Good President! Good minister! You said the state budget would be put together since spring. As far as I know, spring begins at the end of March. Then why did you put that date on February 1, when you mentioned spring?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U226	Thank you. The state budget will actually be put together at the beginning of the year, to be quite honest. As soon as one of the national budgets is adopted, the ministries will start looking into the next year. Basically, the budget will culminate in December, when Parliament has also worked on the budget for the last two or three months. It is important for the national budget strategy, the four-year strategy, what are the targets for the four-year period. According to the four-year strategy, the structural surplus will be 0.6% next year, 0.2% in 2017 and 2018 and 0.6% again in 2019. In order to meet the objectives set, it is necessary, through various tax receipts and draft laws, to look at how to keep your positions conservative and, in the case of the above example, to achieve a structural surplus.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U227	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U228	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You said that this change would benefit the consumer. Indeed, and I commend you for the fact that at last a bill has come that is beneficial to the consumer. You also referred to the fact that the increase in excise duties on fuel is linked to a reduction in social tax, which seems to be credible. But the social tax will not fall next year, it will start to fall from 2017. Perhaps this date should be postponed until 1 February 2017?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U229	Thank you. Now it's like you always have to look after the verbatim. I said you could literally put an equal sign there. We can confirm this with a number of positive examples. It is certainly important to note what has been and, in the near future, the general fiscal vision of the current government will be. As you will remember, during the state budget procedure yesterday, this topic went through this hall as well, that basically labour taxes must be reduced and, accordingly, consumption and pollution of vices must be subject to additional taxation. As for the start of the question, I would like to thank you for congratulating the government. We are really doing everything we can to ensure that this is not a one-off success, but that you can say the same in the future. I expect most of the drafts that are in this procedure to be worthy of the words with which you started your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U230	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U231	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I read in the explanatory note that gas supplies are small. Does this mean that at the end of the year these stocks have gone down and that there is a potential supply crisis in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U232	Thank you. No, I assure you there is no crisis here. The explanatory memorandum also states clearly that petrol can be bought in December and can also be purchased in January. Also let your voters know that it is still possible to buy petrol at a lower excise rate in January. This is certainly very positive news for your constituents.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U233	Thank you, Minister. No more questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U234	Thank you for your constructive conversation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U235	I would like to ask Urve Tiidus, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U236	Honorable President! Honourable colleagues! Minister, thank you very much. The Finance Committee discussed the draft law amending the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws at its meeting on 15 October. Despite the complex title, this is a simple change, the content of which was presented to the Commission by Minister of Finance Sven Sester. The draft will postpone the planned increase of the fuel excise duty rate of 1 January 2016 by one month, i.e. 1 February 2016. With this amendment, the increase in excise duties on fuel is brought to the same date as the increase in excise duties on tobacco and alcohol. Account will also be taken of the fact that traders usually increase stocks before excise increases. Some questions were also raised during the Commission's debate. They asked what the point of the amendment was and that this increase could be delayed for a few more months. The answer was that this would, of course, have a positive impact on consumers, a slight positive impact on inflation, and that in fact the change would still remain in the same year, although it would be a month later. It was asked whether it was real that an additional EUR 55 million would be received from the increases in excise duties in 2016. The answer was that it was realistic. In the case of a call, the price elasticity of demand has been taken into account, as is known, is reflected in the consumer's sensitive response to price movements, if all other variables remain the same. If the price increases, of course, it affects consumption, but the effect of the change extends over a longer period of time. Consumption, as expected, remains relatively stable. It was also said that the price depends, of course, on the world market as well, but the forecast for world market prices for the following year is conservative, no major upward and downward movements are foreseen. A broader debate on excise duties on fuel was also held within the framework of the same item, where representatives of the Ministry of Finance gave an overview of the direction of excise policy on fuel, changes in excise duties on fuel and their impact and the rates of excise duty in other countries. The following consensual decisions were taken by the Commission: to put the draft on the agenda on Wednesday 21 October, to close the first reading and to set a deadline of 10 working days for amendments, i.e. to be made by 5.15 p.m. on 4 November, i.e. a quarter to 6 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U237	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I open negotiations and ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu by Andres Ammas, representative of the Free Party faction.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U238	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Our finance minister has a nice favorite word for a vision. That is why let me present this board with the Free Party's vision on this issue. I think that the coalition has begun to hope for today, and I do not know whether it is rightfully or not, that the people will soon forget this increase in fuel excise duty. I think the coalition is wrong, people don't forget. Of course, we admit that the coalition is very lucky that fuel prices have remained low, and that is what the Government of Taavi Rõivas has been counting on since the coalition negotiations. But I am reminding you here and now: all this in June this year, I am pushing the rise in excise duties on fuel, in our opinion, basically meant that the current government does not have a sound tax policy. Already at the time, the perception that the tax system is a milk cow for the coalition, but not a means of promoting the economy. The Free Party remains convinced that the role of tax regulation and economic growth should be maintained and no other objective should be set. Otherwise, any tax change will act as a disincentive to economic growth instead of economic growth. Whether expensive fuel is purchased in Estonia in the same volume as in the past, as the government hopes, we do not know now, but it may also be just one naive wishful thinking. Let me remind you that statistics show that more than 60% of the new cars sold in Europe are diesel engines and that the strategic share of fuel sales is diesel consumed by international freight. Our calculations have shown that, therefore, the real average increase in excise duties on fuel after the entry into force of this excise duty is 13% in the coming year and 10% in each subsequent year. And although professionals, representatives of the economic world have repeatedly warned that higher fuel prices can simply lead the fuel purchases and profits of transit goods to gas stations in the neighbouring countries, the government has not listened to this. Is the neighbouring country of Latvia going along with the plans of the Estonian government? It was interesting to hear today that the Minister of Finance would know. Well, we dare to doubt until this decision has been taken. Let us be honest, if we look to Latvia here, the economic policy decisions of the Latvian Government over the last few months could set an example for us, not the other way around. The Latvian government may not go along with every foolishness. I could read somewhere in the government's view that all this tax policy is stimulating the economy. Well, the country where the increase in excise duties would boost the economy is not yet known. If the Minister of Finance knows any of these things, let him tell us. In our opinion, car fuel companies are damaged, jobs may be reduced, and people who are unemployed in turn need social assistance. Control needs to be stepped up in order to avoid smuggling. There's been a lot of talk about all this. Additional money is needed, and all of this together inhibits the Estonian economy, not brings economic growth, as the government tells us. Today's draft is a sort of correction of errors. But as it turned out from the discussion here, in a sense, it can also be called a trick bill. In any case, it will continue the policy of the current coalition, which is that indirect taxes are intended to implement the state budget, with so-called'shadow' and 'round' the corner. In the opinion of the Free Party, this is not a wise tax policy and we cannot support it in any way. Although consumers can buy cheaper fuel for another month, it is, of course, nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U239	Thank you. Arthur Talvik, is there a procedural question? No, it's not. Then, unfortunately, I can no longer give you the floor at first reading. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading of the draft 99. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. a 4 November at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the sixth item on the agenda is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U240	We will move on to the seventh item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the 97th draft law amending the Law on state fees initiated by the Government of the Republic. It is a great honour to ask the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, for the speech of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U241	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the State Fees Act, which bears number 97. The drafting of the draft is due to the decision of the Cabinet on 9 September 2014. As a result, all ministries had to review the rates of state fees in their area of government, which had not been amended in at least the last three years, and to bring them into line with the principle of cost. Fees should normally cover at least the direct costs incurred in carrying out operations. The draft was prepared in cooperation with all the ministries whose administration the state fees were amended. The revenue from the state budget is expected to increase by 1 million euros. I give a quick overview of the increase in state fees in the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Social Affairs, Ministry of the Interior, to some extent also in the Ministry of the Environment, Environmental Board and Land Administration. If different positions are taken over, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will increase the state fees for road transport and passenger transport, as well as for aviation, rail and maritime transport. The State fees for explosives were also reviewed. In the case of operations carried out by the Public Road Administration, the rate of the duplicate of the registration plate and of the call for a specialist of the Public Road Administration were increased. The draft also introduces some new rates of state fees. For example, a licence fee for the provision of television and radio services, as well as a fee for the use of a 12-digit number plate, will be imposed. This contributes to the wider deployment of mobile data communication devices and is slightly lower than the eight-digit fee. Within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture, the state fee for the export of cultural goods issued by the National Heritage Board shall be increased. Within the administration of the Ministry of Justice, fees related to the provision of postal services are increased from the activities of the Competition Authority and the State fees for the activities of the Agency and the Health Board under the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs. State fees for activities carried out under the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors are fully designed, based on socio-economic considerations, below the cost-based rate. Within the administration of the Ministry of the Interior, the rates of state fees for activities carried out under the Name Act and the Civil Status Act are partly increased. The rates of state fees for operations by foreign agencies and companies will also be increased. As I said, state fees are also somewhat increased in the administration of the Ministry of the Environment, the Environmental Board and the Land Administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U242	Thank you, Minister. Despite this thorough explanation, there are many questions for you. Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U243	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. I read from the explanations given by the Ministry of Finance that the initiation of the draft is due to the need to bring the rates of state fees into line with the cost principle resulting from § 4 (1) of the State Fees Act, which states that the rate of state fees is set on the basis of the costs involved in carrying out the operation. When I look at state fees, sometimes they grow two, three, and even nine times. Have we really had such a steep increase in the cost of living, or has this been another attempt to fill the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U244	Thank you. This is not only a question of rising cost of living, but, as I said in the introduction, and as mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, state fees should cover the costs of one or another act subject to state fees. That's where it comes from. I would also like to point out once again that this is already the 2014 decision of the Cabinet. The Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Education and Research have already made their state fees cost-based and was already dealt with by the previous Riigikogu. Now other ministries have the sequel. So this decision is not made by the current government, but by the implementation of the former government's decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U245	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U246	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! Could you speak up a little bit about the difference between tax and state fees? This issue was also raised in the Commission. We need to adopt the draft on payments six months before they enter into force. In the case of fees, we can adopt the law and they can be in force even within a month.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U247	Thank you. That's a very good question. I think that this explanation is in the interests of both Members and other members of society and certainly of the verbatim. Indeed, state fees must not be confused with taxes. The state fee is rather comparable to the fee, i.e. the person receives an immediate response from the state. That's the logic of state fees. The State Tax Act is not a tax law, so the Tax Administration Act does not apply to the State Tax Act either. As a general rule, when you look at the activities subject to a charge, they are rare. This also creates a situation where the time of adaptation to change varies from tax legislation to tax legislation. The obligations arising from tax laws apply to taxable persons as soon as the law enters into force. The tax and the fee are indeed two different things; the state fee is rather similar to the fee.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U248	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U249	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We are all on our way here to make the country more efficient, on the other hand, the country will become thinner again. How do you think raising state fees almost ten times makes our country more efficient? The Estonian Employers' Confederation also paid attention to this when the draft law was on the coordination circle.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U250	Thank you. I think we need to look at the purpose of each draft. With regard to the draft currently under discussion, it can be said that the aim of designing the new rates of state fees is precisely the principle of cost. The State fee shall cover the direct costs incurred in carrying out the operations. In principle, it is possible to calculate the price of each operation and also to estimate the number of operations carried out per year. Let me give you a good example here. There is an operation such as the examination of the initial application for an AOC for commercial air transport. With regard to the state fee to be paid for it, it is very clear what are the specific costs, up to how much working hours should theoretically be done, for example, if the take-off mass of the aeroplane or helicopter is up to 1000 kilograms. All of this has been calculated very accurately and, for example, for the next year, 2016 a state fee is expected for one of these operations, as shown by previous statistics. Everything is still based on analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U251	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U252	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of Finance! You said the fees weren't fixed for a long time, and now you've done the job. These fees amount to 200 rounds and give them a million rounds. My question is, how'd it go anyway? Was it originally necessary to clean up, or did it start from the other end, that a million had to be collected and then calculated?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U253	Thank you. No, it wasn't that the Ministry of Finance would have done it, as you said in the introduction to the question. You made it clear that the Ministry of Finance did this. The Ministry of Finance has not done so. According to the order of the Government of the Republic, all ministries had to review the state fees. As I said, the three ministries have regulated their state fees already during the previous Riigikogu, if I am not mistaken, in the spring of this year. Now the rest of the ministries have come this far. The ministries have always looked at the fees that have fallen behind the times, adopted a decision and forwarded their proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U254	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U255	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Here's the question. You were talking about changing the state fee on the raw materials for narcotic drugs. Acetone is also a precursor to a narcotic substance, while it is a tool in schools and research institutions. Is there a special nature of the state fee in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U256	Thank you. As Minister of Finance, I am not a specialist in a broad field who is able to speak in every position from 1 000 kilograms of helicopters to precursors of psychotropic and narcotic substances. I suggest you address the Minister for Social Protection in this area. You could let him specify what components are and at what point it becomes a narcotic substance, why the fee is at this particular level and when the fee was last increased. I think that for each position, it is justified to ask why the fee is precisely at this level. It would be very sensible to discuss this with the ministers in this same process. As this is only a first reading, I can see the possibility of asking the ministers of the sector for a separate explanation of each position.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U257	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U258	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good minister! We read in the explanatory memorandum that state fees are based on the principle of cost. And then we read in the explanatory memorandum that every ministry has treated the cost principle very differently. For example, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has written that state fees need to be increased as the prices for paper and printing services have increased. Before I started working for the Riigikogu, I was a publisher for almost six years and I can swear on the Bible that neither the prices of paper nor printing services have risen. I have a feeling every department has invented a reason to raise these fees. Did the Ministry of Finance also provide some sort of common methodology, or has everyone really worked on inventing price components, just as fantasy has done at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U259	Thank you. That's a good question. I can assure you that the Ministry of Finance provided all ministries with a methodology that required each ministry to develop the rates of state fees. The Ministry of Finance has communicated the methodology and we have no reason to believe that ministries and other authorities have used false information or have followed other principles. In this respect, we certainly trust the ministries.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U260	Thank you. Look, we're having a proper parliamentary debate here, but in the end, everything's still messed up like mush and cabbages. When we dealt with the previous bill here a few minutes ago, Mr Ammas, the representative of your party, said nicely that you know, although it is beneficial to the consumer, we are not in favour of it. By the end of the day, it looks like you're not for anything. Maybe I misunderstood something. The state budget must properly and fairly reflect all costs and revenues. As state fees are made cost-based and therefore additional resources are received in the state budget, it is correct to state that the draft under discussion is accompanied by revenue from the state budget. If, for example, we raise the tax-free minimum by some legislation, then it will involve the costs of the state budget. Consequently, it is correct to state that an increase in the tax-free minimum, which results in more money being paid to the recipient, will result in additional costs for the State. I think it's very correct to say such things.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U261	A procedural question, Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U262	Because the esteemed waitress was mercifully willing to mention my name...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U263	Excuse me, is that a rejoinder?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U264	... then I ask him how he might have understood my previous speech in such a way that we don't want to be good for the consumer. I made it quite clear that we are against the rise in fuel excise duty as such. How did you get so wrong? That's my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U265	Good fellows! We have rejoinders in the round of negotiations. Right now we have a round of questions and answers. However, there was also a question in your reply. Would you like to ask a question? I'm asking you to give Andres Ammas a microphone! Question two, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U266	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for your service. Dear Minister! Indeed, in the preparation of this draft, ministries have done very thorough work and very thorough work is also being done in the process of processing permits. For example, nine specialists in the Ministry of the Environment handle an application for a waste permit. I don't want you to read them all by title, but would you describe a little bit how nine specialists are handling this one application for a permit?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U267	Thank you. I say once again, as I said in replying to one earlier question, that it is clearly possible to state, for each state fee, of which one or the other state fee consists, how many hours are going for one or another permit procedure. When I first gave you an example of a specific company operating air transport, it was precisely estimated that it would take 110 hours. There was an hour's payout. I think that during the procedure for this draft, you can also ask the Minister in this area why he believes that one or another state fee needs to be dealt with by nine people. I'm sure it would be a good idea to ask. If a particular minister of the sector says that the state fee has been unchanged for years, as I said, it must have been at least three years since the last amendment of the state fee, but in the case of many state fees, this time is much longer, then I have no reason to doubt that the principle of cost has been taken into account when raising the state fee.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U268	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U269	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. As Mr Ammas pointed out, very many fees go to cover bureaucratic procedures. The government has now made a major commitment to the reform of the state and the number of officials of state institutions will be reduced. Was this change in fees really done only on the basis of costorientation? Wasn't the content analysis behind this at all? Didn't the so-called precept you sent out or the methodology for making the change mention that you were dealing with the content too?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U270	Thank you. There is definitely one thing to be taken into account here. That is, the principle of cost is already enshrined in the State Fees Act. And if you look at specific state fees, you will see that some state fees have been decided by the state to reduce, make more favourable. This is also stated in the explanatory memorandum. In itself, the State has made it clear, and it is stated in the State Tax Act that the principle of cost is generally respected.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U271	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U272	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Did I hear correctly that the million so-called just happened by accident? In particular, please explain how all these 200 state fees developed. How, then, in one case, was the principle of cost, the principle of equivalent and the principle of solvency followed? Could you send me a matrix for all 200 fees to see what the overall picture is?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U273	Thank you. I'll start at the end. Of course, if the Member asks, it is possible to take out the full matrix. And if you look at the bill, you can also see clearly what the tides are. For each slope, you can also get a full overview of which the change results. I fix your request and you will be sent specific information, just as a member of the EKRE Group was sent today, who asked a very specific question. By today, that answer should have reached his e-mail. As regards whether there were different methodologies, as I said, there was clearly one methodology. The cost principle is based on the fact that State fees must cover costs. That is a clear principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U274	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U275	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! These state fees, which are now rising, are also linked to a number of services that are almost automatically covered by the same IT tools. And yet here the fees rise two or three times. I have not noticed that the use of these IT applications has recently become more expensive. How are such high increases in state fees justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U276	Thank you. You spoke very vaguely, and that is why I have to give you the same vague answer. You didn't give any examples, you just said that there would be so many fees. I'm telling you, the state fees have been reviewed by a fee. If you notice, there are very different angles of slope. In the case of state fees with more IT solutions, perhaps the cost is lower. Do not question the accuracy of the state fees. As I have already said, there is still room for further deepening of each fee during the procedure for the draft. There's a real calculation behind each fee. It is not quite the case that the minister comes out of the cabinet, looks up at the ceiling, picks up the pen and says that he will make the state fee for psychotropic substances such as this or different. It's not exactly what you understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U277	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U278	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I would like to congratulate you on how you described the methodology for calculating state fees, how you used all the necessary papers and other things. I hope with all my heart that when you look at the budget, you will tell us about the methodology by which you calculated the minimum wage for teachers. I'm really glad you guys were talking about methodology.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U279	Thank you. I take this opportunity to say that we are happy together that we think the same way. I couldn't help but sense the feeling in the hall that it was a good state budget before we started working on the state budget yesterday. I think that we will perhaps see for the first time in December how everyone together is in favour of such a state budget being adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U280	I am pleased to pass on to the sitting and to give the floor to Henn Põlluaasa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U281	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I read in the explanatory memorandum that the rise in state fees is proportionate to the increase in the cost of living, the economic situation and the overall increase in the price of services. However, if we look at the rise in fees, there are even tenfold increases. Our economic situation has not improved so much, and thank God, nor has the overall price increase and the increase in the cost of living been so great. What do you say you take a step back with the government and take the fees that are written here into proportion?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U282	Thank you. As I said in an earlier reply, state fees are now in proportion and I have no reason to doubt the data provided by any of the ministers of the sector. Let us not forget that several state fees have remained unchanged for a much longer period than for the last three years. As you even read in the explanatory memorandum, there are several components here. The cost of living and the principle of cost shall be taken into account when processing the state fee relating to a particular service.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U283	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U284	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! How do I start now? I'll start like this. If we were to do a little propaganda attack on the public and tell the whole mainstream media for one week how many times the state fees of this, the second and the third thing will rise. I think it would be quite useful for this government to show that they are not doing what they promised to do before the elections. But here's the question. There has been a lot of talk about immigrants because we have problems with our spouse, we have labour problems. When state fees are raised, everyone gets hit with a single table. Should we not seriously consider exempting all family and child activities from state fees at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U285	Thank you. I'm gonna start from a distance. You mentioned a propaganda attack. I also remember a member of your party may have mentioned somewhere in the meantime that, you know, this is our propaganda roch. I don't even know where this brochure came from, but there's some kind of propaganda roch in here. I suggest you do more on content and less on propaganda, which will certainly lead to more onward. But that's my suggestion, don't take it maliciously! As far as state fees and one table are concerned, as you said, this is only a first reading. All the good ideas that come to Members of Parliament are, of course, welcome and can be discussed. After all, it is a parliamentary state; all Members can have a say in this process. So don't be ashamed to bring your ideas to the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U286	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U287	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. If you look for concrete examples, there are many of them, starting with the activity of the car register and ending with a divorce. If, on the previous item, I have been able to congratulate you on a useful draft for the consumer, it is certainly not now, it is clearly a harmful draft. If, now, the provision of these services has really become so much more expensive, why have you decided to come before the Riigikogu with a bill that will start asking the people for more money again, for a whole million? You could have told the ministries that you would still try to provide these services more effectively, so you will come up with the existing state fees.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U288	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft law amending the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic at its meeting on 12 October. It is no surprise that the questions were almost exactly the same as they just sounded in this Chamber. The answers were even a little more modest than here today. The reason is very simple: we did not have a respected Minister of Finance in the Commission at the time; instead, Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Kairi Sudakov, head of the same department. Members of the Commission received answers to their questions. If anyone didn't ask for anything, there was still room for questioning and clarification today. That's why I'm not gonna talk you through the debate. I listened very carefully today, and the Minister also gave very detailed information about the content of the draft, so I have nothing to add here either. However, the Commission made a number of important decisions. The decisions are as follows: to propose that 97 drafts be placed on the plenary agenda on 21 October. a (consensus decision), to appoint Kalvi Tõvi as rapporteur (consensus decision), to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped (by 7, 4 votes against, 0 abstentions) and to set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 4 November 2015 (consensus decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U289	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the groups want to open negotiations? I open negotiations and ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Estonian Free Party Andres Ammas! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U290	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Our debate here has been interesting and at times even witty. But the story is actually serious. The need to modernise state fees is not disputed by the Free Party, but we are not at all satisfied with the way in which this is done in the draft before us. The Minister stressed, and the same, that the draft explanatory memorandum repeatedly stressed, that the direct and indirect costs involved in the operation had been taken into account. In many cases, however, the so-called "equivalent" principle has also been used, i.e. the use of the language of the people, is not mercifully taken up by the paying agents in order not to actually kill out an activity or hobby. In fact, the desire to fill the state budget clearly follows the bill. With a million euros or more, we do not know that today. However, if a fee is to be increased more than ten times, a significant amount of money will be needed. And raising the fee, as we all know, is such a quiet but insidious way to scrape up the money. You will increase the fee for the issue of a duplicate of the vehicle registration plate from EUR 6 to EUR 10 and that is EUR 56000, as found on the ground. While the raising of many fees hits businesses first and foremost, I would point out that we still have an entrepreneur-friendly coalition and that entrepreneurs are particularly concerned about each draft, for example, the Ministry of the Interior is expected to find an additional EUR 200000 in terms of fees and other civil status procedures for changing the name. This is not why the last name will not be changed, so the fee will rise from EUR 39 to EUR 100. The thing about raising the fee is that maybe from here on Toompea, it looks like the sums are small and what does it all matter now? But seriously, this gap in the fee may be very important for a particular person, and it can be a very large sum. In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, it is even more important than this, but if we raise these fees in this way, our own Estonian people will be offended by the Estonian state, and rightly so. The ministries have probably tried the best in preparing the bill, but it has fallen out as often. Take, for example, the same area of government of the Ministry of the Environment, which has already been mentioned. The costs of processing a mineral geological survey permit or mining permit are EUR 899 and EUR 1164 respectively. How is this sum obtained? Each administrative act shall be dealt with by a total of eight employees. We add together their gross remuneration, we add thousands of euros per year to the cost of the offices or these offices would otherwise not be heated unless these permits were processed. We will add thousands of euros to the cost of communication, nor would officials use the Internet or phone. We add the cost of transporting specialists, and that's how the huge amount comes together. In the end, the paying agent should be grateful that he is not being charged with all of this. But we really must have a very fat and prosperous country, if one permit can be handled by eight workers, a waste permit as much as nine, as I said before. The private sector can't afford to be so free. These examples might be more and more, but what's still to be mocked is that the officials were carrying out the task assigned to them. For the speaker here, the most startling picture of this draft is, in fact, the one that looks back on these calculations. The Minister of Finance has rightly said that this is not the subject of this law. Maybe it isn't the subject of this law, but it is our subject, and very much so. What a huge bureaucratic machine we have built here in our country! But there's something good about every bad thing. This bill shows very clearly that there is and how much more. The Estonian Employers' Confederation, when assessing this bill, says very precisely that raising state fees should lead to an increase in the quality of the services provided by the state, and states that the practice is actually the opposite. Public authorities do not comply with the deadlines. You know, maybe that's why they won't be able to agree between themselves who out of the nine employees mentioned above will finally do the job. How to improve the quality of this service is asked by employers. They mention that more and more services should be digitalised, and this should lead to lower costs. Against this background, it is even a little anecdotal to forgive, another example of the fact that a state fee of EUR 7 was still paid in the National Register of Certification for the operation under the Digital Signature Act, specifically for the modification of the data of the certification service provider and the time stamp service provider, under the draft, EUR 64 will be paid. Yes, it's been 15 years since the last fee was imposed, but has the cost of living increased so much? So what do we do with this bill now? One way would be to start repairing it from the line to the line by proposing a few dozen improvements, if necessary, even a hundred. In the opinion of the Free Party, this is not a sensible way; it would waste too much of our common time and public money. We think the bill is raw. The rules adopted on the basis of these calculations should be critically reviewed, because ladies and gentlemen, if we were to calculate the state budget line in this way, so generously, our country would have been bankrupt a long time ago. So the Free Party proposes to reject this draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U291	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U292	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has decided to close the first reading of draft 97, but the Free Party Group has proposed to reject this draft at first reading. We will begin, good colleagues, to prepare the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the motion of the Free Party Group to reject 97 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 21 votes to 26, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Dear colleagues, the first reading of bill 97 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 97 amendments. a 4 November at 5.15 p.m. The seventh item is addressed. Good fellows, thank you. Today's trial is over. I wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 5.49 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U293	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U294	Good manager! Minister of Finance! The state fee must not be so high that a person cannot pay it. As I know, there is a Supreme Court ruling that some state fees are so high in judicial activity that it is contrary to the Constitution. I don't rule out anyone here may appeal to the courts. But I'm asking about good practice. The first reading of the draft state budget was successfully passed in the Riigikogu today, and now the honourable Minister of Finance is coming to the Riigikogu to change the law. Shouldn't the opposite be the case before there should be a law, there is a plan for income in the state budget, and only then can we move on? At the moment everything is contrary to the state budget is in the Riigikogu, the money is planned in. How do you even know that this law will be passed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U295	Thank you. You have a very good point. If you look at when the bill has been handed over to Parliament, you will see that this bill has arrived earlier than the draft budget. Since this draft also concerns the state budget for next year, these changes must certainly have been adopted before the state budget. I also said in the introductory speech that a specific draft should, if possible, be adopted before the adoption of the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U296	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I still cannot understand the purpose of the state fees. You have tried to argue that this is a principle that costs must be covered. However, page 44 of the explanatory memorandum states directly that the revenue from the draft can be planned in the 2016 State Budget Act. What is this purpose? In my opinion, fees cannot be a direct source of government support.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U297	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. We are here every day thinking about how to support a farmer and how to keep the countryside. But next year, farmers will have their excise duties on fuel, and now they will also raise their state fees. The wheel tractor, the motor vehicle and their trailer are certainly the farmer's everyday tools, and I know that there are companies where there can be up to a hundred. The rise in state fees from EUR 23 to EUR 40 is quite a cost in this case. I don't know if all this is justified. How do you justify such a great rise?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U298	Thanks! You mean an increase from EUR 23 to EUR 40. Good questioner, the state fee must not, by its very nature, be extinct. I'm sure it's important. The fees specifically referred to by you in the case of a wheeled tractor or a mobile machine do not make the operation impossible or unreasonable. If, according to the draft, the new state fee is EUR 40, as you said, there is a very clear estimate of this. The starting point is wage and driving cost of EUR 35,66, calculated with the accuracy of the cent. The cost of materials per unit has been calculated at € 0.47. The total cost related to the Office is EUR 1,38 and the costs related to the management of support services are EUR 2,08. The cost of materials, support services, travel, etc. has been examined very accurately. The Supreme Court has stated that high state fees are mainly in court cases and in matters of the enforcement of appeals rights. On that point, the Ministry of Justice is currently in the process of further analysis of court fees. Perhaps there are too high state fees. Certainly, the state fee should not become an obstacle to such matters. In this sense, your attention is correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U299	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U300	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Mr. Minister! I will return to the same question I asked earlier. The Ministry gave us the data, and then you trusted. I think it's important to trust the classics who said to trust you, but check it out. If you went through such a great deal of trouble and provided some kind of scheme for the rise in fees, then you should also have looked at whether the lead has been followed or whether the costs that are outside those promised by the guide have been included. Otherwise, you might step in front of us and actually be a tank. Maybe we should check more.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U301	Thank you. Once again, in the case of all the draft laws that have come to your table and will come there in the future and which are protected by the ministers of the sector, the government in general has a responsibility. I said this yesterday in defending the budget, and now I repeat: it is the general responsibility of the government in all positions. Believe me, if you have agreed on a methodology and procedures, you don't have to rely all the time on trust, but control. Not even if you're trying to be super-conservative. Basically, we're still following the rules. I have no doubt that the ministries of industry are complying with the rules and that the data which they have transmitted and which are concentrated in a specific draft are correct and based on the principle of cost.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U302	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U303	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The government is committed to rationalising bureaucracy, i.e. to dealing more rationally with the costs of government administration, and your assistant minister is now trying to solve this task. Andres Ammas gave an example that eight or nine officials were involved in the granting of one licence. What are, in fact, the measures to reduce red tape and the technical network? Isn't our state equipment still too expensive and difficult to sustain? What are the specific actions and what are the savings points in the budget for the coming year in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U304	Thank you. I can sense it again, it's always so during questions and answers that the wider you make this corridor for yourself, the more you can fit cars or any other means of movement. Indeed, if you do not mind, we will remain within the limits of this particular draft. If there has been discussion about how to make the country more effective in the future, thinner, then there has also been the opposite criticism that you see that the country is too thin and we cannot get the service. So there has been a completely different criticism, but this is definitely part of another debate. However, if you look at the behaviour of the current government, you will see that, in reviewing both the staff and all the activities of the day, the government is moving towards a more effective state. In answer to the first part of your question, where you mentioned the assistant minister, I say that I do not have an assistant minister. This is a fully-fledged minister, if you mean Arto Asa. Neither I nor any other member of the government yet has an assistant minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U305	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U306	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You repeatedly emphasise that state fees are cost-based. Perhaps it must be believed that the state fees can be paid for the entire apparatus. If that's not the case, let me know. Perhaps, then, we could think about how to reduce costs, perhaps more IT solutions could be used and, as they always say, go in a lighter direction for the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U307	Thank you. I agree with you 100%. For the sake of all this, which will help to make the country more efficient, and let us not forget that state money is Estonian taxpayers' money in order to get the same service at a better price, we should make an effort. Your idea that information technology will help us save taxpayers' money is certainly an idea in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U308	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U309	Minister, thank you. There are no more questions. It is my great honour to ask Kalvi Tõud, Member of the Finance Committee for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U310	Thank you. Now we're confusing two things. The confusing thing is that these are not mutually exclusive things. Ministries act on this, their work would be more efficient, and as a result, the services they provide to people would also be cheaper. They're working on it! It's not like we're gonna put this job aside now. In other words, if they had not done this job, the state fees would perhaps be much higher today. That's a way to look at this thing. While ministries are working to make the service more accessible to consumers, things that have remained at one level for a long time must also be reviewed, the real costs of one or the other of the operations subject to a charge must be examined. Once again: these things are not exclusive and the fees are currently being brought into line with real costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U311	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U312	Thank you, honourable Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you for your good answers. However, I would like to ask you about a specific state fee. While § 187 (1) currently states that the state fee paid for taking the qualification examination and the pilot's driving test is EUR 30, the new draft provides for an increase of more than 1300 per cent, or EUR 400. Compared to the rise in other state fees, it is almost colossal and catastrophic. Here's a couple of questions. What gives rise to an increase of over 1300%? Second, what is the reason for this? Is there really so many pilot testers that gold mountains should now come to the state budget? Thirdly, have you consulted with the Independent Trade Union of Estonian Seafarers, who manages the rights of all seafarers?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U313	Thank you. I'm gonna start from a distance, and I'm gonna get ahead. As for each particular fee, as I have said before, has been a 'initiator' or a fee supervisor, if that is the case, a minister in a specific field, we can ask him if he has contacted one party or the other. What I can say today in the context of raising the various fees is that the fees are now in line with the real costs that a particular operation entails. I also pointed out in one explanation that the real costs that are necessary for one operation or another are taken as a basis and that the expected number of operations, which is very different in one year, is also taken into account. Some operations may only take place once a year, and there are hundreds, if not thousands. This is the basis of the calculations.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U314	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U315	Thank you. Minister of Finance! It's been two interesting days. Yesterday we heard the state budget was going up a lot. Today we are discussing the law on state fees, from which I read that, even though everything is well, the pay for obtaining a death certificate on paper will increase one and a half times. Are we really that poor? However, my question relates to the entry into force of the Act amending the State Fees Act on 1 January, § 149 and 157 will enter into force on 1 February. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U316	Thank you. Sector ministers have made their proposals on the basis of the moment of enforcement of one or another state fee, and we have no reason to review it again. It's the whole government picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U317	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U318	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm taking advantage of my second question. The explanatory memorandum states that the state fee for the certificate of marriage registration will rise 150%, but the state fee for the divorce certificate will rise 192%. Hence a compliment to you as a minister representing a national conservative party. Do you value the traditional family and the survival of the family through such a difference in tides? Divorce just gets a lot more expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U319	Thank you. You see, here we are discussing the second day on different topics. You are on the right track with your question. True, the decision why the state fee for the marriage is lower than the state fee for the divorce is very clear from the desire of the state to favour marriage so that people are not left unmarried due to the excessive state fee. So values are clearly in place for this government as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U320	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U321	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I will pick up where the debate has left off. It has been complained that the government's communication work is poor. People have not been able to explain why we still need to accept so many immigrants, and so on, let us not go solo on all these issues. I have this question: is this still not a poor communication of the government, and should it not be improved, for example, in such a way that the ERR channels, as well as the leading newspapers and portals, will inform people about the rise in state fees within about a week of all the important information about what the current fees are, how much they are rising and why they are rising?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-21_U322	Good questioner! It is always good to discuss with you in this sense that there are usually two important aspects of your issues that you produce, one is the subject of immigrants and the other is the main media. These are always things that sooner or later will come to your question. Now you've brought in some more poor communication, that's the same propaganda you've been talking about before. If you don't mind, I'm not going to comment on everything and talk about my thoughts. I'm sure I've had some thoughts about what propaganda in your party means and what the main media are. Let him be, I'll try to stick to the state fees law. But I appreciate that you still have a heartache over this immigrant and main media issue on every issue of yours.
