ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Question Time. Incoming check, please! 56 members of the Riigikogu registered as participants in Question Time. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, who is today prime minister, Margus Tsahkna, Minister of Social Protection and Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Education and Science, will participate in the Question Time. Yesterday nine members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask a question. In view of this, I will give the debate on each subject an opportunity to submit an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U2	The first questioner is Jaak Madison; the question is to the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, in the role of Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U3	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, A few days ago, we asked Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas for a prognosis as to how many people were scheduled to be accepted through the family reunification programme. As we know, Estonia has made a promise to receive 550 persons within two years, but those who come through family reunification have not been included. Since you are probably more competent than the Prime Minister on this matter, I believe you have some kind of prognosis or assessment of how many people can come back here for this program.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U4	Thank you. Dear Riigikogu! There is no separate programme, as was stated in the question, for the reunification of refugee families. The general principle is that when receiving refugees, we prefer families or single mothers with children - those who are easier to adapt. This question, to which you refer, is based on wider international agreements on family reunification. This does not specifically concern refugees, but all people who receive a residence permit in Estonia. Under the international conventions on family reunification, it is indeed possible, under a simplified procedure, to catch up or bring certain close relatives. It is important that the decision to allow family reunification is taken by the Police and Border Guard Board. It shall do so on a case-by-case basis, assessing its need. You can't automatically take close relatives with you to the country. When it comes to rules, a refugee's family member is considered by law to be his or her spouse and a single and minor child. This means that sisters, brothers, and parents are not considered family members of an adult refugee. There is certainly no risk of a large kinship coming along with a refugee. Really, the closest relatives, some lonely people, can come.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U5	Jaak Madison, the question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U6	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, We specifically asked for a forecast figure. Are you suggesting now that the Estonian Government does not have a forecast of how many close relatives can come in addition to the adopted refugees? Does this number exist or does it not exist? It's a very simple question. The second thing about Estonia's preference, women and children, is it not discrimination? According to certain people, it was discrimination when a member of the government said a few months ago that we preferred Christians in Syria. Today it has turned out that it would be discrimination if we started to make preferences on the basis of religion. We have to accept everyone. Can't there be a contradiction here with the same position? Maybe it's male discrimination. Perhaps you can specify whether this is discrimination or not. Of course, I am also interested in whether you have a prognosis as to how many of these underage children or spouses can come after these 550 people in two years.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U7	Thank you. I'll start at the end of the question. Indeed, the government has decided that the refugee processing team will assess the background of potential refugees coming to Estonia. One important criterion is the readiness of individual people and also the prerequisites for integrating into Estonian society. In our opinion, it makes sense, therefore, if entire refugee families come here or if, for example, there is no family father, there is only a single mother and a child, then the child comes with the parent. This differs from the other possible strategy that only a few children will be admitted who will later become completely dependent on the state. That's not our preference. Your first question concerned whether the government has a concrete forecast of how many family members could come to live in Estonia together with the refugees that were adopted in the coming years. We do not and cannot have such a prognosis because, as I said, every decision is individual, a number of factors are being considered, both compliance with the law and whether family reunification is in line with the spirit of the conventions. As a result of our preference for whole families, it can be said that the number of people added to family reunification is quite small, because we prefer families that all members of which are already together, that is, because of the conventions on family reunification, no one needs to come to their families.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U8	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U9	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Mr. Minister! It is known that depending on the traditions and laws of the country of origin, some characters may also have more than one legal spouse. Are there any rules on how such a case is handled? I hear he'll have to choose one husband he'll take with him, leave another, and the fate of this person will be very sad. If we prefer families and someone comes here, for example, with two legal husbands, will all these marriages remain valid? How will this matter be dealt with?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U10	Thank you. I must admit, I am not a specialist in international family law. The Minister of the Interior will certainly be able to answer these questions more precisely as to how the Estonian state deals with international, say, special practice. The general logic in Estonia is that a person has one legal spouse and, under international agreements, the reunification of spouses takes place in a simplified manner, compared to all other relatives or other people. But how specific legal concerns will be solved, unfortunately, I cannot answer that today. I'm sure the Minister of the Interior can answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U12	The next question is for the Minister of Education and Science, Jürgen Ligi. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U13	Thank you. Minister Ligi! Yesterday, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you introduced the education part of the state budget for next year. Your report can be summarised as the share of education expenditure in the budget has decreased, research expenditure is on a declining trend, and educational attainment requires abandonment. It is difficult to claim that education and research are budget priorities when the total public budget increases by 4.4%, but the Ministry of Education and Research's budget decreases by 2.9%. Where will the wage increase of teachers promised by the government coalition come from, and what will be the minimum wage for teachers next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U14	Thank you. I'm worried about the big strategic numbers, too, if you don't tell me they're making me miserable. But it's not a very sudden trend. Previous education ministers also knew that due to existing models and end-of-life projects, the trend in costs tends to go down. Unfortunately, this trend has been much worse than it would have been possible. During budgetary disputes, I have repeatedly highlighted this in the government coalition, and yesterday I did some of that in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I think we should break this trend in the budgetary strategy for the country next year. The places to spend money in education and science and to spend reasonably will continue. Where does the increase in teachers' pay come from? In particular, this has always taken place through internal improvement of the system. On this issue, two drafts have also been submitted to the government, which will alleviate the situation a little. The third source of money is extra money. In the meantime, these are internal savings resulting from improving and optimising the school network. I cannot give the salary number because I do not know yet what the Riigikogu will decide when I come here with these drafts. But I can tell you what their price is as soon as these decisions are made in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U15	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U16	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. On 28 October last year, the Supreme Court's decision came into force, according to which if the state obliges the local government to finance private schools, it must also participate in covering the operating costs of private schools. Instead of fulfilling your obligation, you are going to find extra money in such a way as to deprive private schools of operating support at all. This is planned as early as next year, 2016, to save at least EUR 6.3 million. This change concerns at least 6 000 children studying in specialised private schools. Can you tell me what will happen to these kids and schools after the funding's gone?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U17	Thank you. No one has an obligation and no one can be obliged to finance a private initiative. It's always a judgment of reason. The state has considered this issue in a way and the municipality must also be able to consider it. The final result is undoubtedly that the municipalities of Tallinn have been a great exception here, i.e. the Tallinn private school network has not been able to count on this money ♪ support their private schools and children who study in them. But, of course, the system is not sustainable as the state pays private schools whose responsibilities are much lower and the rights are much higher, one and a half times more support per student than it pays municipal schools. There is no possibility that this system will continue. Speaking of teachers' salaries, I say that these things are undoubtedly related to the education budget, if the Riigikogu does not support this legislative amendment, it concerns more than 3% of teachers' salary fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U18	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U19	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister for Education and Science, I'm coming back to the committee meeting yesterday. It revealed a surprising fact that the state budget has planned money that has not been legalised, whether it is to take away the investment component from local authorities (circa 2.3 million euros) or to abolish the operating grant for private schools, which totals about 8.7 million euros, or 4% of the expected increase in teachers' salaries. How is it possible that revenue that has not been legally recognised is planned in the budget? Are you sure the coalition partners will support you in this action? Where does the increase in teachers' wages come from to 120% of the average wage in Estonia, if this is even the case next year in order to maintain the average level of Estonia? Can you comment on that, Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U20	I didn't understand everything you said about not being in the budget or anywhere. Laws are still being changed. I really hope that the coalition partners, as well as the partymates, will support me. Otherwise, I must say that they have made unsupported promises and are not following their priorities. In any case, optimising the education system is the main source of wage increases and investment in intellectual property. This has been a long-term attitude. As Minister of Finance, I have also followed this in order to channel the money available for education into less concrete and more brains. Of course, the financing system must also be optimised. Both drafts follow this principle, they make the education system stronger and education better. There have actually been no substantive disagreements in the coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U22	The next question is to Mr Tsahkna, Minister for Social Protection. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The anniversaries were withdrawn despite the great opposition to the draft law on capacity support for work, which we are now changing to 60%. The main criticism of the draft was the lack of services to support or encourage work. Today, in the Riigikogu, we have four draft laws on this subject, including the whole new text of the Social Welfare Act, which is disappointing, to say the least. The Chancellor of Justice has drawn the Ministry's attention to the fact that the right of persons with disabilities to certain services, such as the translation of sign language, which is no longer mentioned in the new law, or the disability service, is significantly deteriorating compared to the current law. In fact, social transport is not the same as disability transport, it is much more restrictive. How do you justify that? Why, though, is the new law restrictive?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U24	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, the Employment Capacity Allowance Act, which was adopted as a result of a major debate, is now in the procedure in the Riigikogu and in the same way the Social Welfare Act. The main objective is to change what was most critical of and which caused opposition, which is to increase the capacity of local authorities to provide social welfare services. The draft Social Welfare Act stood for years in the Ministry of Social Affairs, where it couldn't get out in any way. I consider it a very great victory for this government that this bill has now come to the discussion in the Riigikogu. It is very important that the principle, which is specifically stated in this law, is that no matter which municipality a person who needs social welfare services lives in, he must receive them across Estonia, in all municipalities. We set minimum requirements for different services. These services must be available, regardless of the municipality in which the person lives. Its aim is to ensure uniform quality and availability of services across Estonia. The shortcomings in this were also caused by the greatest criticism of the implementation of the employment capacity reform by the organisations of the disabled and people with special needs. As far as the employment capacity reform itself is concerned, the change is that we are starting with the services of the unemployment fund and the Social Insurance Board. There's been a record of what's a transport service, and so on. They shall start on 1 January 2016. Activities related to the implementation of the employment capacity reform for those who are new entrants to the system will start on 1 July 2016. We've been winning for six months. I appreciate that when the Riigikogu deals with these draft laws, the situation of people with disabilities improves.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U25	Thank you. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U26	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Yes, all of this is correct what you said, but you did not answer my question, which, on the basis of considerations or analysis, has still disappeared from the law, for example, the obligation of the local government to provide sign language translation services. This is not among the nine services regulated by the law. Of course, it can be said that the local government must provide the service that a person needs. At the moment, however, it is clearly stated as a duty of the municipality, but it is now left free. There's no way the Kurds can agree to that. Of course, I recognise that this bill has reached the Riigikogu. Although you have put the Riigikogu in a very difficult situation, because the bill will be here in October, you expect the law to apply from 1 January, which is not very realistic.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U27	Thank you, good questioner! The Riigikogu must work, but the pace of work is determined by the Riigikogu itself. I am pleased that the Committee on Social Affairs currently has a lot of work to do, that the government has come up with drafts on very important and fundamental issues. I repeat this principle, which is enshrined in the Social Welfare Act, the draft of which is now pending in the Riigikogu. In fact, for the first time we are setting minimum requirements for specific services, it is understandable, but it does not exempt local authorities from providing the services needed by the people who live in the region. This is not meant to be any other way, and the municipalities know it. The problem now is that municipalities have been given a general delegation and an obligation to provide social welfare services, but there is no provision for which quality requirements they should meet, even at a minimum level. This is a long step forward. If we look at the same work capacity reform, on which I myself have been critical, namely on the application side, it is very important to monitor what services will be provided by the unemployment fund and the Social Insurance Board from 1 January 2016. These are specific services of a large scale. Here is a very long list of services that people will receive from 1 January 2016, including those who have participated in the "old" system. I consider it an important victory that we are starting, above all, in the interests of the people themselves, from these services. If we are able to apply the minimum standards of the Social Welfare Act at this rate, i.e. to give local governments the task of ensuring the necessary services, even at a minimum level, this is a major step forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U28	I'm glad the Minister's in a working mood too. Let us stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U29	The next question is for the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, in the role of Prime Minister. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U30	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I begin by saying that the Gorbachev-style policy of limiting alcohol consumption, as the older generation knows, actually flew up into the air. Basically, it was probably just a campaign thing. But now a small line that the Russians have even come a little ahead of us in some respects: there has been a ban on the sale of alcohol at Russian petrol stations for several years. But let's get back to our business. How is the campaign to limit alcohol consumption intended to ensure that large supermarkets and small shops have an equal opportunity to continue to exist if these restrictions are implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U31	Thank you very much. Alcohol consumption in Estonia is a serious concern. There is too much drinking in Estonia. This results in both personal damage to health and wider social damage, which is extremely serious. Direct healthcare costs can be estimated at around EUR 40 million per year. Indirect social harm is road accidents, drownings, fire deaths, domestic violence, etc. These facts are generally well known to everyone. Strengthening alcohol policy in this situation is not even a state's freedom, but a moral obligation to reduce these losses. In general, there are three types of restrictions that work in this situation. One is increasing prices by means of excise policy, the other is limiting advertising, and the third is tightening sales conditions and limiting sales opportunities. Your question specifically concerned the latter. Indeed, according to the draft on the coordination ring, since 2017, alcohol should be placed in shops separately from other goods and, as of 2018, alcohol should be separated in large shops with opaque walls. When it comes to small shops, it is clear that building an opaque wall in a small country store is not realistic; there is simply no room for it. We have found such a solution that in smaller shops where people do not store their own goods but ask the seller for it should be obliged to place all the alcohol behind the counter. The content of the restriction would be that beer cupboards would no longer be next to soda cupboards, but that alcohol would be behind the counter. But you shouldn't build a wall there. So the work of shops in these areas would not be significantly disrupted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U32	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I must say that for me personally and also for the Centre Party Group, initiatives to tighten up alcohol policy are very sympathetic. I also agree with you on what you said by sending Rain Radio, that if we want to reach six liters per person, as the WHO has written, these measures will not even be enough, but we will go forward step by step and we will do just that first. These drafts are currently in the coordination circle. I am most concerned about the possible coordination or non-coordination of your coalition partner's Reform Party ministers. I have heard the argument that this is a major restriction on the freedom to conduct a business, and drinking to death has been regarded as one of the fundamental freedoms. How has this coordination circle gone so far? Who among the ministers has given coordination, who has not yet? When could your initiatives come before Parliament so that Parliament can also consider these issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U34	Thank you very much. The coordination circle, by memory, will run until 9 November. In addition to other ministries, numerous interest groups will certainly express their views. I am quite convinced that both the alcohol producers and the advertising and television people are giving their opinion. There will certainly also be proposals from stakeholders dealing with health protection. Then, as usual, we will discuss these proposals with stakeholders and, if necessary, adjust the draft. I believe that this draft is a rather good compromise, because it is based on the Green Paper on alcohol policy, which was prepared for several years. All stakeholders, including alcohol producers, were involved in this work. The Green Paper was approved by the Government of the Republic in February 2014 and on this basis the draft has now been proposed. So most of these disputes have already been held. Certainly my personal desire in some places would be to make regulation even tougher than has been proposed, but we understand that this is a certain balance that has now been found. In this context, I no longer consider it necessary to continue to have very serious fundamental disputes. This does not mean, of course, that alcohol producers do not say that they have not been discussed with them or that they oppose these restrictions. I totally understand them. Of course, these restrictions affect their business profits and, in this context, opposition is understandable, but the interests of society and the state are in any case more important here. My wish would be to arrive at the Government of the Republic by the end of this year with this bill, so that the Riigikogu can start processing it in the first months of next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U35	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U36	The next question is to Mr Tsahkna, Minister for Social Protection. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U37	Thank you. Dear Margus Tsahkna! Since you are not the Minister for Health, I had in mind, in formulating the question, services to support the health of people with disabilities and partial working capacity, as well as the major shortcomings that we are seeing here. We have been talking for two years about the need to establish common standards for services for local authorities in order to succeed in the work capacity reform. They've been made, and now this bill is in front of us. At the same time, we see that this bill does not put anything in place, is general, there are no regulations. If we look at different municipalities, compare Kihnut and Meeks with Tallinn or Tartu, for example, we can see that the capacity of the municipalities is very, very different, even if the amount of the service fee is taken varies. They say money must not be an obstacle. But who's to say how much is to be paid? The municipality will establish it. What, then, does the law establish?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U38	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U39	Do you really think that these standards of services are adequate?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U40	Thank you, good questioner! It's kind of peaceful in this hall tonight. If it were up to me alone, these standards of services, or requirements, would certainly be higher, indeed. You've read the bill yourself, it's completely publicly available. These are the minimum requirements that we are presenting. But we still have negotiations with the local governments that say that even so much should not be prescribed by the state or specified by the abstract law that already exists. In any case, it is, I will find, a fundamental step forward. What is important is that people know, no matter which municipality they live in, that they have the right to receive the services provided by the standard, even at a minimum. Very often I have heard stories that people do not even know that they are entitled to demand these services, because all of them live in a local government, no matter which country in Estonia. I am not only talking about Tallinn or Tartu at all, but also about other municipalities. Municipalities have to provide services, which is the responsibility of local governments. They will also have the means to do so. This subject, I hope, will be discussed thoroughly in the Riigikogu and will certainly also be passed by law so that we can set these standards. I consider the very important issue that comes with these same requirements, or standards, to reduce the care burden on families. Not only are we proposing requirements for services under the law, but we also have more than EUR 30 million of European funds for municipalities to help them provide social welfare services and reduce the care burden on those people who have had to stay at home because they are caring for someone close to them. So this is a complex approach. I'm sure the situation will improve.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U41	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U42	Thank you. In fact, this law also imposes new obligations on municipalities. As a result, for example, the Association of Estonian Cities has not coordinated this draft. I would like to mention, for example, shelter services and debt counselling for victims of close relationship violence. There is still much to read about these obligations. Why do we not take into account the people who deal directly with these problems? Tallinn has proposed a great many improvements. We know that social welfare is very good in Tallinn, and that is what people with disabilities have said themselves, but we do not take into account these proposals that will help make it all better. At the same time, the autonomy of local authorities is interfered with by regulating their organisation of work at the level of the law. How do you comment on this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U43	Thank you. I shall comment on the situation in Tallinn in such a way that there is certainly no problem with using the money in Tallinn. Two million euros goes into the propaganda machine. If it is necessary to provide social welfare services, Tallinn is really capable. If you need more money, it's definitely the one place you can take it. Municipalities will have EUR 1 million per year of the money they are required to provide welfare services without having to spend in the middle. This is on average every year. The question arises as to why the money remains. My message is very clear: we are not making laws for municipalities. Municipalities have developed in this hall and on a political level, even the expression that there are municipalities somewhere. However, there are people in Estonia for whom we make laws. We have people living in these municipalities, working and paying the same percentage of income tax in all municipalities. They have the right to receive services throughout Estonia. The purpose of this particular law is to ensure the availability of these services across Estonia, even at a minimum level. It is elementary, what the Estonian state can and must do for its people. The state versus municipalities do not help people who live in any local government, either in Tartu or in another. This has been my starting point. As far as additional tasks are concerned, this is not true. At present, municipalities have a very clear and concrete obligation to provide these services to people in need of social welfare. The problem is that it has been very abstractly formulated by the state. Now we're going to specify that, that's our problem. The state is not a random organisation; the state is a mediator between collecting taxpayers' money and providing services. Our task is to ensure that people from all over Estonia have access to these services.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U44	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have really gotten really cool. One very important service, of course within the framework of health care, is to support disabled people in renting or acquiring aids. Can you promise that within this year's number, people will get that help? What are the measures you intend to take to ensure that these services are well accessible and flexible?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U46	Thank you. I'm glad you asked about the aids. This has been one of the disgraces of the Estonian state for years. Everyone who needs aid or whose loved ones need it knows that money usually runs out in August or early autumn, and then people have to wait for the money to be recovered from the state budget. This money is usually found at the end of the year when the so-called "residences" of the state budget are being reviewed. I can say that this year, too, we will raise more than EUR 2 million to the funding line for aid instruments, and those people who are currently without aid will receive this assistance. But even more importantly, from 1 January 2016, or next year, the reform of the financing of aid instruments will enter into force and should not result in such embarrassing situations. First of all, we are losing the system of regional assistance and making it country-centred. There have been cases where people have had to move from one municipality to another to get aids, as there has been money for this in a neighbouring country. Secondly, we will increase the financing of aid instruments. This year's base was just over EUR 5 million each time something more has been found, but next year the amount of EUR 9 million will be the money that goes to obtain aid. In addition, after the implementation of the employment capacity reform by European funds and the unemployment fund, adult workers can apply for the tools necessary for them to work and work. I am pleased to say that the situation with regard to the acquisition of aid after the reform entered into force on 1 January 2016 will be an important relief and will become more humane.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U47	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U48	A question for the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question concerns the report commissioned by the Scientific and Development Council, which is called the Gunnar Ok report. It was completed at the end of August. Now, obviously, opinions, proposals and positions have been received from all the authorities and organisations. How will the Ministry of Education and Research continue to work on this report and its opinions and positions? Is there a plan to develop an operational programme based on them? If so, what time step will you take?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U50	Thank you. The Ministry of Education and Research is working hard on these things. By mid-October, 36 organisations had received our opinion on the report. The report, of course, is not a matter for itself, but a matter commissioned by long-term processes and observations, which confirms many of the opinions and choices that have already been made, but there is also an undoubtedly great deal of debate about it. We intend to hold another meeting of the Scientific and Development Council in December, which I hope will also formulate concrete proposals. The Ministry of Education will handle this in November. We hope that we will finally get a more effective organisation of education, higher education and research.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U51	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, One of the proposals put forward very clearly in the report, which gave rise to a lot of talk and talk in society, was that research institutions, universities of higher education and also universities of applied sciences should be grouped under three centres, two of which are located in Tallinn and one in Tartu. The particularly painful reaction was caused by the proposal to join the Institute of Estonian Language with the University of Tartu. Is the Ministry of Education and Research's investment plan next year, which is probably confirmed by the Government of the Republic, also linked to the concentration of these institutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U53	Thank you. You can't find direct communication right now, because you have to make decisions first. But the reaction on the subject of the language institute was painful, completely unnecessary, in the sense that the language institute does not lose its dignity when it is the language institute of the national university. It is certain that language policy functions must also be fixed at the level of the law. However, the University of Tartu can add academic weight to language studies and, in fact, to language policy. This does not mean that we have a prepared position. This painful reaction is one thing we will definitely feel and discuss. Language people should be encouraged to be more active in open language discussions and maybe they should be less concerned about the organisational form of their institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U54	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U55	Now Mart Helme's question to the Minister for Social Protection Margus Tsahkna. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U56	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister! In today's Question Time, we also heard that Estonia is happy to accept families as immigrants. At the same time, more and more independent researchers and thoughtful and active people have found that there is a high level of trafficking in human beings in the shadow of bringing immigrants to Europe. Among other things, women and children are purchased and presented as family members. The issue has also come to an end in the European Parliament, where it has been raised by a number of parliamentarians. Will the Republic of Estonia take steps to undisputedly identify that there are no false families among asylum seekers? Do we have the capacity, the political will and the determination to carry out DNA tests, if necessary, to clarify whether they are not purchased and abused people, but that they are really families?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U57	Thank you, good questioner! This is a very serious issue which perhaps has not been dealt with very much. Today, over 750,000 people have come to Europe illegally, with the help of human smugglers. But apart from what we have seen, that these people are being brought on all kinds of vessels, whether rubber boats or whatever they find, across the sea here, this is human smuggling, indeed, human trafficking has also arisen. The criminal world is using this crisis and the misery of these people to earn from it. As far as Estonia's capabilities are concerned, we are one of the few countries today, if not the only country that has made it very clear that we are not doing the procedures for explaining people's background in Estonia, we are deciding not to grant them legal protection here, but our teams, where specialists from the Defence Police, Police and Border Guard Board and the Ministry of Social Affairs are represented, will carry out this verification in Italy, specifically there. The aim is precisely to obtain certain information that these are real families, that their documents are in order, that these people have legally come to Europe and that they need legal protection, because they cannot go back to their home country because their lives are in danger there. We have concluded an agreement on this with Italy. The government is also working to ensure that these procedures are as clear and understandable as possible and that the criteria are met. I can tell you that our knowledge is good. The internship will show you. I hope we can implement all this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U58	Mart Helme. But please ask a question in one minute! If it takes 30 seconds to ask a question, then 30 seconds will be enough for the introduction.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U59	Thank you. The question is very simple. Are the 553 people we intend to receive included in family members, or are they counted differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U60	Our guideline is clear: we want to have full families. All these people are included in the same agreement that has been concluded at European level. Our team, who goes to one country or another, is checking the background of these people. I would also like to emphasise that every country, including Estonia, can decide for itself who it grants legal protection. It's a state decision. If we have questions that we cannot answer, for example, if we do not know whether a person or family will be able to accept our culture, our rule of law, whether he is from a "safe background," or if he does not come here with bad thoughts and bad intentions, then we will not provide legal protection for that person or family. This procedure is foreseen, and we will definitely specify that. The draft law granting international protection to an alien is also under discussion in the Riigikogu, which is subject to further proposals so that it is also at the level of the law where and what rights are granted. In this sense, we are well prepared at least at the legal level and also at the level of our people's experience. It is a question of how we can do this work on the ground, who are the people who are in the camps there, how many of them are actually war refugees who need protection and help, and how many of them have illegally come to Europe. It's very important to understand. So Estonia itself decides who we give protection to. Our people are working to make sure that those to whom we provide protection do not come to Estonia with bad intentions and are able to adapt here, even on an elementary level.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U61	Thank you, Mart Helme! And now Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U62	Dear Minister, There was always the sound of Estonia deciding, looking for itself and knowing what it was doing. But I would remind you that Estonia decided in June to receive up to 180 persons. Estonia does not decide anything, even the number cannot be decided, because, by qualified majority, a quota is imposed on the number of people to receive. So much for our decision-making power. It's not there. You said that Estonians are going to Italy to choose from people who have legally reached Europe. In that case, this figure should be zero, because all those who have reached Europe are illegal borderbreakers, illegal immigrants. Whether they will be granted refugee status when they have illegally come to Europe is a question of their own. But what is my question? This is why the government supports human trafficking. You understand very well that all these hundreds of thousands of people have reached Europe through illegal trafficking in human beings. If we accept them at least 550 plus family members, we will support illegal trafficking in human beings and add wind to it. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U63	First of all, I think you would be very pleased if we did not take any steps. If Europe's borders are open, it will be much better to drive this rhetoric. The problem is that Europe's borders are not protected, Europe's borders are open today. I attended the European People's Party Congress summit last week in Madrid, where the leaders of European countries were present. I can say that if there are no real refugees in Estonia today who would have come through this agreement programme, very many countries are in serious trouble. I am talking, for example, about our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Finland. That is where the notion that something must be done at European level, borders must be brought under control, human trafficking and smuggling must be combated. We must help refugees if we want to solve this problem, but not by redistributing them in Europe, but by helping these people on the ground. We know that over 12 million people have left their homes in Syria. So if we divide around 160,000 people in Europe, the real problem will not be solved, it will not change what is happening in Syria and those 12 million people. That knowledge has arrived today. What must we do in Estonia? We need to establish our rules, procedures, control systems and integration plans and be ready to adopt those who are entitled to legal protection. It is only us who will decide to grant this protection. It must be very clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U64	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U65	The next question is to the Minister for Health and Labour in charge of Prime Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U66	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. The Social Democrats presented dozens of proposals for a coalition agreement during the summer, which I hope expressed the political party's programme views and principles. Yesterday, the representatives of the Socialists in the Committee on Monetary Affairs had the opportunity to support two drafts, which almost one to one expressed the positions of the socialists. They provided for an increase of the tax-free minimum to EUR 400 and a reversal of the VAT change for accommodation establishments. Your representatives did not support these initiatives. In this large Chamber, too, the social democrats had the opportunity to support several drafts launched by the opposition, the content of which was in line with the thematic developments that had previously been acceptable to the social democrats. When were the Social Democrats sincere, summer or yesterday? When did this real face come true? Is this contradiction between words and actions that will remain your pattern of behavior? Let me ask you another favorite question from legendary journalist Enno Tammer: are you ashamed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U67	Thank you. In answering this question, a good neighbour, Jürgen, asked not to criticise the Reform Party very much. As far as specific drafts are concerned, it is difficult for me to make an assessment of the activities of Members of Parliament, being here in the hands of the Prime Minister. It is up to each Member to decide how he will act when voting on a specific draft. However, as far as the proposals for supplementing the coalition agreement are concerned, many of them were in agreement with the coalition partners. They have also been prepared and approved in accordance with the common agreement in addition to the programme of action of the Government of the Republic, so that they have become part of the government's activities. Increasing the tax-free minimum at a faster pace than agreed is also included in the programme of action of the Government of the Republic. But you understand, of course, that this type of decision cannot be made without a longer financial plan. While we are in the government, apart from increasing the tax-free minimum, we must also agree on which source of cover it will be covered. Of course, political parties in the government, for example, have different views on tax policy. There's nothing new or surprising here. If you and I were in government alone, we'd probably make different choices. Unfortunately, the logic of coalition governments is that there must be some compromises and other compromises in order to bear the responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U68	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U69	Thank you. Your penguin inspired me to ask the following question. One of the main promises of the Socialists has been the increase in teachers' salaries to 120% of the average wage in Estonia. There will only be one elf step in the budget for the coming year. Yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs revealed that the coalition's most important strategic commitments in the field of education and science have not been fulfilled, educational expenditure and research expenditure are on a declining trend. Mr Ossinovski, why do you not support your colleague, now Minister for Education and Research, in achieving a stronger increase in teachers' pay?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U70	Thank you. I believe that this agreement, which was reached in the summer, that this government will finally reach the strategic objective and that the salaries of teachers will be raised to a commonly agreed level over the next few years, to 120% of the Estonian average, is a very important signal. Given that the average age of teachers in Estonia is already close to 50 years old and the quality of education depends entirely on how good teachers in our schools will teach us in the future instead of the good teachers who are going to retire in the coming years, I believe that this is a very important long-term signal for those who are now starting to study as teachers. The government is determined to do so. In previous years, as you know very well, teachers' salaries have indeed been significantly increased. This year, the minimum wage has risen from EUR 800 to EUR 900 compared to last year. We are close to the average in Estonia, so a wage increase of about 20% in real terms will have to be done in the coming years. There is a political agreement for that. Let us admit that, in the first financial year, this government has quite limited resources. This concerns not only teachers but also all other employees. As you know, in the context of the reform of the state, we are talking more about the need to cut the number of employees in the public sector. After all, there was no general wage agreement in the public sector, no increase in the wage fund, an increase of 0%, except in the priority areas of internal security, culture, education and social work in the state. I believe that the Minister of Education will make an effort to increase the pay of teachers next year more than has been agreed by the government. How much more, we'll find out in the coming months.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U71	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ossinovski's Prime Minister's duties! My question concerns Mr Ammas's because I wanted to ask the same question. You have written in a coalition agreement with a cold cod face of 120%, and now you are putting a numb cod face of 120% on it, Mr. Ligil. We don't have to understand, as you said, we actually have to understand. We don't understand. You said that teachers' salaries have increased considerably. No, it's not. The real wage of teachers has fallen significantly and the intensity of work has increased. What have you, a fundamental socialist, done to keep your promises?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U73	Thank you. As you know, supplementing the programme of action of the Government of the Republic was born as an agreement at the end of August, which means that the big framework for the next year, the 2016 budget, had already been agreed by that time. In fact, this was largely agreed as early as spring in the country's budget strategy. This procedure in this country is that there is a longer-term budgetary view and every year there is a budget that fits in. When we are talking about a political agreement to raise teachers' salaries, which has been concluded and which the government will certainly comply with, the next time we have to find a real cover for this political agreement, the next spring will be when the country's budget strategy is renewed, if, in addition to the internal resources that the Ministry of Education is able to find, additional financing from the state budget is, of course, also needed. I assure you that this agreement is indeed an important political priority. We'll do it. But the overall context is simply that next year there will be quite a small amount of public money. Teachers have already been treated as a priority. As the Minister of Education said, when certain decisions are made, it is also possible to increase teachers' salaries at a significantly faster pace, but these decisions depend on cooperation between the Ministry of Education and the Riigikogu, say so.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U74	I will conclude on this issue. Thank you to the ministers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U75	Let's start the Wednesday hearing. First, you can deliver drafts and inquiries. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U76	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, A few years ago, Estonia decided to implement an ambitious project to make broadband internet available in almost every home or, say, 98% of Estonian homes. I'm a half-mundane, and I was very happy about it. The broadband Internet cable also began to approach our peninsula, until at one point it stopped at exactly the point where it would get a good connection to the cell tower. If the original goal really was to take the Internet to every home, then it soon became clear that it is more of a shadow to the great interests of telecommunications companies. Yesterday, you could certainly read from the press that Olav Harjo, the sole member of the board of a foundation such as the Estonian Broadband Development Foundation and the founder of the EstWin project, announced his departure and highlighted the points that I have just noted. Given the very serious contradictions and accusations that private interest dominates the public interest, as proved by this resignation and also by the audit of the National Audit Office, which recently emerged, I will put eight questions to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure on behalf of seven members of the Free Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U77	Fruit Savisaar-Toomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U78	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 57 members of the Riigikogu, I hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of a 'Problem Committee of the Riigikogu for analysing Estonian drug policy and HIV prevention activities and improving prevention activities'. I'm not going to read the names of all the initiators to you. All I am saying is that among them are members of the Riigikogu from all political groups. The purpose of this draft is to set up a committee of problems on the basis of § 21 (1) (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, whose task is to analyse Estonia's drug policy and HIV prevention activities and provide solutions that radically reduce the number of drug deaths and spread of HIV, put a stop to drug crime and ensure effective treatment of addiction under the leadership of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U79	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U80	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, This hall has been struggling with the problem of cost benefits for more than ten years. If you can't do it yourself, you should ask some wiser advice. Therefore, eight members of the Free Party Group have prepared an inquiry to the Chancellor of Justice of the Republic of Estonia, Ülle Madis, asking what the Chancellor of Justice's assessment of the practice of paying the cost benefits of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu is, whether it complies with the law, and what the legal assessment of the Chancellor of Justice's principles of paying the cost benefits would be, which would ensure legal clarity and prevent abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U81	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U82	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Conservative People's Party, I will report an inquiry to Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. The inquiry concerns the investigation of the fire at Vao Keskus and the harassment of anti-Migration activists. On 25 September 2015, Paide police conducted a search of the social network by the well-known anti-mass migration activist Reimo Sillamaa and interrogated him. There were over 18,000 fans on the Facebook page "Against the Refugees" created by the bridgeland, but the web police closed it and it is not open at the moment. The search and interrogation of the apartment in Sillamaa was due to a misdemeanour procedure involving incitement to hatred. It has also been threatened to close his open new group 'Pegida Estonia' against mass migration. It is also known that on 14 October 2015, the police detained Martin Kattai, an anti-mass migration activist, who was subsequently banned from taking part in public events or being near Toompea Castle. In this regard, we ask you to answer the following questions before the Riigikogu. What is the most recent information on investigating the fire at Vao Keskus? Do the police have any specific suspects? Are we expecting charges against anyone? Is this search and interrogation of social media group activists a rule of law activity under the conditions of democracy and pluralism? Why are there no similar measures to search or interrogation of used persons who present in the Russian Delfi commentary a number of blasphemous statements about the state and nation of Estonia? Can you confirm that there is no political pressure on the agencies in your administration in connection with the fire at the Vao Keskus? Does the Minister not think that he is involved in creating a climate of fear in Estonia and in shutting down civil society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U83	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U84	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, I am going to refer an inquiry to Mr Hanso, Minister of Defence. Its theme is investment in the development of the capabilities of the Defence League. In view of the immigration crisis that has hit Europe, the unprecedented number of military conflicts in the world as a whole, and especially the growing aggression in the neighbouring countries, national security and defence capabilities are crucial. In addition to the Estonian Defence Forces, the Defence League is a considerable developer of defence capabilities, which, thanks to good training and great motivation, has been able to create considerable defence and response capacity for various crisis situations. However, it has to be said that due to the large number of joiners, basic equipment for the new Defence League is not currently being provided and high-quality weapons are being replaced against weapons from the 1970s. We therefore ask you to answer the following questions by virtue of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Firstly, how will the next year's budget cover the procurement of equipment for the Defence League's infantry, and to what extent will the equipment be purchased? Secondly, why were the weapons replaced by Gall from Tallinn's chess weaponry and replaced with considerably heavier weapons suitable for urban battles AG-3? Thirdly, is it planned to acquire weapons for the infantry to replace obsolete and ineffective weapons against the newer and more effective ones? Fourthly, given the increased prestige of the Defence League and the number of new members in society, does the Ministry of Defence not consider it necessary to allocate additional resources to enhance the equipment and training of the Defence League and improve their motivation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U85	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U86	Honorable Chairman! Colleagues! I present an inquiry to the Minister of Science and Education Ligi. As we all know, wages are rising at an enormous rate, including for teachers, including kindergarten teachers, and because wages are rising so quickly, 175 people in the education sector are meant to be laid off to save internal resources. The exact figures are that wage increases will be allowed, but wage resources will decrease by 2.9%. 2.9% is no money, if we calculate it on the basis of 10 euros, but if we replace it with 10 million euros, then it's 2.9% really a lot of money. The fact that these 175 people have to leave work, either as sauna women or as taxi drivers, can no longer actually become taxi drivers, because the quota has been established and the car cannot be bought, is what our questions arise. What posts in the Ministry of Education and Research are going to be made redundant? We would like to mention the positions, the institutions and the number of people. How many of the redundancies are teachers' posts? From which schools or regions are these teachers planned to be gathered? How is concentration expected to affect the quality of education and regional access to education? How do you assess the situation in which the figures for redundancies have been announced but there is no knowledge of which agencies and posts are affected? How do you justify keeping people in the dark? It's awfully good to run a school when you know that ten teachers are being laid off from your school. Who's getting laid off? Let's get the Minister! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U87	Okay, one bill and five questions. If the draft complies with the Home and Working Procedures Act, it will be dealt with. Requests for information shall be forwarded to the addressees if they comply with that law and, if they do not comply, shall be returned. Now, let's do the presence check, please! There are 82 members of the Riigikogu. Sorry, 83 members of the Riigikogu are present and missing 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U88	First, we will discuss the draft law amending the Law on Securities Market initiated by the Government of the Republic 67. Third reading begins. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Securities Market Act 67. Please take a stand and vote. There were 77 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the Act, 2 against and 3 abstentions. The Law amending the Law on Securities has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U89	The second reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, on Iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland during the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) begins. The rapporteur for the Environment Committee is Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U90	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, There is a bill before you that bears exactly the title that the President of the Riigikogu said. I will read the item one more time: 'The second reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, on Iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland in the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change'. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 16 July 2015. The first reading took place on 30 September and the deadline for submitting amendments was 14 October at 4 a.m. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The commission made procedural decisions and proposals. On 11 October it was decided to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 28 October and also to propose that the draft be put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U91	Any questions for the waitress? It is. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U92	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Rainer! Does Iceland have any problems with the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol? Will there be any problems with the adoption of the law? Iceland is geographically and climaticly slightly different from us. I think they're using little fossil fuel at all, and there's hot water coming out of the ground on its own. So I think they have a rather small role to play in creating ozone holes. But the question is whether Iceland may have some problems that need to be resolved, which could be solved by helping the people of Estonia's brotherly Iceland.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U93	Thank you, dear colleague Vassiliev. The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu did not discuss this issue at its meeting, but I am happy to answer you. No, on the contrary, we are going to solve the world's environmental problems with Iceland. They are coming to help the European Union. Once again, I quote Rein Ratas, Vice-President of the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu: 'Iceland wants to go with us as the 29th citizen of the European Union. '
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U94	Thank you. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U95	Thank you. Good waitress! According to the press, the Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu is currently in Iceland. Perhaps it would make sense to wait for her, so we can hear from her freshly about the problems that a good colleague, Mrs Vassiliev, spoke about. Did the Commission discuss this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U96	Thank you for your good proposal. I think we should wait for the vice-chairman and ask him. But the issue of the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol does not necessarily have to be linked to the trips of the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U97	More substantive answers were given to the very substantive questions. Thank you, Rainer Vakra! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The commission has proposed that the draft be put to a final vote of 60. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, on Iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland for the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change 60. Please take a stand and vote. 68 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the bill as a law, 3 were against, no one abstained. Bill 60 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U98	The second reading of the Bill of Amendment to the Structural Support Act 79, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins in 2014. The rapporteur for the Monetary Commission is Siim Kisler. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U99	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! The deadline for submitting amendments to the draft was 14 October, but unfortunately no amendments were tabled. Consequently, the Committee on Monetary Affairs took consensual decisions at its meeting on 19 October. Firstly, it was decided to propose that the draft be sent to today's agenda for a second reading and, secondly, that the second reading be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U100	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. On a proposal from the Commission, the second reading of draft 79 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U101	The second reading of the Bill of Amendment 76 to the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The rapporteur is Andres Metsoja, member of the Environment Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U102	President-in-Office of the Council. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The first reading of the draft act took place on 30 September and the deadline for tabling amendments was set at 14 October. No amendments to the draft were tabled. Consequently, on 20 October the commission decided to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 28 October and to propose that the second reading be terminated. When the second reading of the draft is completed, our proposal is to refer the draft to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U103	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The second reading of Bill 76 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U104	The first reading of the draft Act 101 amending the Law on the organisation of the fisheries market initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The initiator's waitress is Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Rural Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U105	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu and good guests! On 19 November 2014, the Riigikogu passed the Fisheries Market Management Act, which implements the Common Fisheries Policy of the European Union and the fish-economic objectives of the Estonian state in 2014. The draft regulates the implementation of the EMFF operational programme, the granting of fish-economic State aid and de minimis aid and the common organisation of the market. Today, both the State Aid Guidelines and national changes have led to the need to amend the law. The amendments to the law concern mainly the market organisation and the principles of State aid, the remaining amendments to the law are of a more technical nature and relate to the establishment of the conditions necessary for the EMFF operational programme. The market organisation will be amended by supplementing the law on the conditions for the recognition of producer organisations in the fisheries and aquaculture sector. Until now, the recognition of the producer organisation was subject to the requirements that the producer organisation must have at least five members and, in the case of the production of sprat and herring, it must represent at least 15% of Estonia's total catches and, in the case of the production of other fishery and aquaculture products, at least 40% of Estonia's total catches. These requirements will continue to apply after the amendment of the law, but there will be an additional provision that only producer organisations whose economic activities relate to the production of economically important species will be recognised nationally. Economically important species are those fish species caught and grown with a sufficiently high production volume to achieve real benefits and economies of scale from joint action, as a large number of objectives are set at European Union level for the activities of producer organisations that they must achieve through their activities. These include the promotion of the economic, viable and sustainable fishing activities of the members of the producer organisation and the establishment and implementation of a joint production and marketing plan of the producer organisation. However, it is possible to ensure that these objectives are met by producer organisations whose members, in their substantive cooperation, have the effect of joint action on which a sufficient production volume is based. The list of such economically important species is established by regulation of the Minister responsible for the field and the law is supplemented by the addition of a mandate rule. The list of species to be caught shall include those whose annual fishing capacity starts at 200 tonnes. If we take into account the data for 2014, these species are herring, sprat, perch, bat, place, shirt, pike, sea ink and mite. In the aquaculture sector, rainbow trout is an economically important species, with a sales volume of around 570 tonnes in 2014, which accounts for about 66% of all Estonian fish production. This means that, by applying this provision, the creation of recognised producer organisations is excluded only in order to give rise to the possibility of applying for support under the measure provided for by the EMFF to producer organisations, while the organisation does not actually, internally, coordinate the activities or only those species which do not have national recognition. Producers who want to cooperate, co-manage and coordinate their activities, but do not produce economically meaningful species in sufficient quantities, may form a profit cooperative, but without the recognition of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. Such profit cooperatives may apply for support, for example, from measures for the sustainable development of fisheries and aquaculture areas intended for local groups of initiatives. By clarifying the system for implementing State aid in the fish economy, the procedure for granting aid under the block exemption will become clearer. As the Commission's block exemption Regulation remained in force for the last days of 2014, it was not possible to include the relevant reference in the 2014 Act. When a reference is added to the relevant block exemption regulation, the application for block exemption support, processing and reporting will become clearer. The remaining legislative amendments concern the creation of the conditions necessary for the implementation of the EMFF support and are technical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U106	No questions for the waitress. Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur for the Rural Commission is Einar Vallbaum. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U107	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the minister just introduced the bill, I'm not going to go over it. The draft was discussed in the Commission on 12 October. We had invited Ain Finland, Head of the Fisheries Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, to give us a proper overview. The Commission received answers to all the questions and unanimously decided to propose that the first reading of the draft be completed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 4 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U108	Thank you. Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of bill 101 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 4 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U109	The debate on the next item will begin when the President's break ends, i.e. in five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U110	Honourable Riigikogu! The chairman's recess is over. This will allow us to start discussing draft Act 62 on ratification of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, on the one hand, and the European Community and its Member States, on the other. First reading begins. The initiator's waitress is Marina Kaljurand, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U111	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, please excuse me for being late! I was held by Finnish entrepreneurs. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] They promised to invest, so if they don't invest, we have something to demand from them. This Act ratifies the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part. The Caribbean Forum of African, Caribbean and Pacific States (Cariforum) includes 15 Caribbean countries with nearly 30 million people. The largest islands are Haiti, Dominican Republic, Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago. The EPA concerns trade relations and development cooperation between the European Union and the CARIFORUM region. The EPA has been provisionally applied in Estonia since 29 December 2008. In Estonia, the Economic Partnership Agreement has to be ratified on the basis of § 25 (1) of the Foreign Relations Act. The EPA complements the Cotonou Agreement, which forms the basis for relations between the African, Caribbean and Pacific States and the European Union, which has already been ratified by the Riigikogu. The objective of the agreement is to contribute to the sustainable development of the Caribbean countries by supporting their integration into the global economy. In doing so, the agreement should contribute to the reduction of poverty in the Caribbean countries. The Trade Partnership is in line with the Millennium Development Goals. To achieve this, the Agreement grants quota and tariff-free access to the European Union market for goods originating in the Caribbean and also removes other barriers to trade. Apart from trade, the EPA regulates a number of trade-related areas, such as services, investment, competition, public procurement, customs cooperation and intellectual property rights. This integrated approach is linked to the desire to contribute to regional integration in the Caribbean region. The agreement links trade policy to development cooperation. Its important objective is to improve the overall institutional capacity of the Caribbean countries and strengthen human capital, both in trade policy and in related areas. The impact of the EPA on trade flows between Estonia and the Caribbean islands is marginal. This is due to the geographical situation, the lack of historical ties and also the small size of our markets. At the same time, this agreement allows Estonian service providers easier access to the markets of the Caribbean countries, which can also increase the export of services in the long term. As Estonia has not concluded any bilateral investment protection agreements with the countries of the region, the Economic Partnership Agreement provides more favourable conditions for Estonian investors and greater certainty for investing in Cariforum countries. The agreement also has a significant broader impact. This is a sign of market openness, a signal to companies and businesses that market players are open and prepared for business and trading. The agreement between the Caribbean countries and the European Union is ambitious, comprehensive and gives a positive signal to investors and governments, which goes beyond the technical implementation of the agreement alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U112	Any questions for the waitress? It is. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U113	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! The CARIFORUM States are actually quite different. Saint Lucias has Hollywood stars' cottages. Dominican Republic cigars are known all over the world, Jamaican rum too, right? In Barbados, for example, is not so poor, there is an average salary of nearly 800 dollars and the state secures all those who want with the country's subsidised jobs, but not all of them want them. But, of course, their happiness and prosperity do not come from Bob Marley's songs, but from letting a huge amount of goods through their flag, making it tax-free and very cheap. For example, tobacco products and alcohol are even considerably cheaper in the CARIFORUM countries than in Estonia. Do we have to hope or fear that there will be quite a lot of good and very cheap goods that our Estonian residents can consume?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U114	Thank you for your question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. I can say that the meaning of this agreement is marginal for Estonia. But I will take aside the statistics of the European Union and see what the practice of other countries shows. When we look at trade between the Caribbean countries and the European Union, we see that the main export products from the Caribbean countries to the European Union are fuel, oil, gas mix and oils, bananas, sugar, yes, indeed also rum, minerals, gold, alumina, iron ore products and fertilisers. At the same time, if we look at the other way, which are the main import products for the Caribbean countries from the European Union, then alcohol is higher there. Looking at this, I do not think that alcohol from these countries will flood the Estonian market. He may enrich the Estonian market to some extent, but I do not believe that important changes are taking place here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U115	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U116	I thank you for the opportunity to ask a second question. Although our trade is marginal, it is an extremely interesting region, because there is an opportunity to do all kinds of tax tricks on all kinds of goods, whether they come from Europe or America, wherever, and oil is not at all in the region, so it is all foreign oil with which they operate. Suddenly, however, Estonia has the opportunity to somehow attach itself to it and obtain considerable benefits from cooperation with the Caribbean countries, for example, to enter into such fine agreements so that it can take over cheap oil and anything that the CARIFORUM States would make very cheap for us? Then we can get rich with them on account of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U117	I thank you for this question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. However, I dare say that there are rules and requirements that the CARIFORUM States must comply with in order for their goods to reach the European Union. That is why this agreement and other agreements lay down rules and requirements. So it is not quite the case that they are flooding the European Union market without rules, fraudulently or somehow. As regards whether Estonian entrepreneurs could have a future in the service sector or somewhere else, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is ready to contribute here. This is what these agreements are for, to open new markets, to open new gates and to encourage Estonian entrepreneurs to look further than the European Union and our immediate surroundings.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U118	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U119	Thank you. Madam Minister! In recent years, we have had agreements between two partners, where one party has, of course, been an Estonian state. Now we're doing 15 countries at once. Does this mean that there is a new trend in contracts, or is this an isolated incident?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U120	I thank you for this question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Yes, indeed, the European Union is concluding agreements with the region, the African, Caribbean and Pacific States as a group, with a total of 15 countries, because both the Community of States and the Economic Community have developed there. To start negotiating a separate contract with everyone would certainly be more time-consuming and costly. This practical approach has been adopted in the European Union. It was also accepted by us when we joined the European Union. So this Treaty will be ratified by all the Member States of the European Union so that it can enter into force. As of today, 17 Member States of the European Union have ratified it and so reaffirmed that regional convergence is justified in certain regions. On the other hand, this does not mean that the European Union will not continue to conclude bilateral agreements with important trading partners. With the United States, we will conclude a bilateral free trade agreement when the negotiations come this far. The specific nature of the agreement we are discussing today is that it is not only a trade agreement, but it is very closely linked to development cooperation. There are several areas connected under a single framework agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U121	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, My question is somewhat specific, it concerns the exceptions set out in Article 66: the provisions on freedom of establishment do not apply to certain activities, including audiovisual services. I don't know how much you can answer that question. But does that mean you can't make movies? What exactly does that mean? Can't you set up television channels?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U123	Thank you for your question. I owe you an answer. Yes, there are special provisions, but in detail I will answer you in writing. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U124	Thank you. No further questions. The Commission's presentation is from Enn Front, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U125	Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on the draft law on ratification of the EPA took place in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 12 October. Jüri Seilenthal, Director General of the Foreign Economic and Development Cooperation Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Bureau of Offices of Trade Policy and Economic Organisations, together with Mari Tepp and Toomas Tirs, attended the meeting. The officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs presented the content of the EPA and its objectives and answered the questions raised by the members of the Commission. Let it be said that Estonia has diplomatic relations with all the Caribbean countries, although there are only two countries in the Dominican Republic and Haiti, there is an honorary consul, and Estonia does not have a high-level representative there today. The Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously took the following procedural decisions: We proposed that the draft be put on the plenary agenda for the first reading today, Wednesday, 28 October. The Commission's proposal is also to conclude the first reading of the draft. When the first reading is completed, we propose to the Riigikogu Board that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 16 a.m. on Friday, 6 November. By decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Enn Eesmaa, Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is the rapporteur for the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U126	Thank you. Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of bill 62 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 16 a.m. on 6 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U127	The first reading of the Bill 71 on Amendment of the Public Information Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. The rapporteur shall be the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, on behalf of the initiator. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U128	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representatives of the people! The purpose of this draft law is to incorporate into the Estonian legal order a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council aimed at harmonising the re-use of information held by the public sector in the Member States. It also has its own practical and economic purpose, since the re-use of public information enables public sector information intended for general use to be used by all persons, inter alia, for commercial and business purposes. This will enable new services and applications to be created in Europe. In particular, it imposes a re-use obligation on digital information held by memory institutions (libraries, archives, museums) whose copyrights or related rights belong to a memory institution. For example, it is possible to create a collection of digital books by reusing digital books held by libraries and intended for general use, while virtual museums can be created by reusing digital images of museums. In the light of the Directive, a list of documents to which the State does not have to make the relevant information re-usable is included in the Act. Such information is intelligibly restricted information, be it sensitive personal data or national security information. It also creates the possibility to restrict the provision of information for general use where it contains personal data. The general principle that access to information is free of charge applies to the re-use of information, except in the cases provided for by law, e.g. requests for land register and business register in Estonia. According to the current law, the remuneration must be cost-based, but the draft law adds to the law the possibility under the Directive that a reasonable return on investment may be added to the cost-based remuneration. According to the European Commission's communication, a reasonable return on investment should normally not exceed 5% of the interest rate on the main refinancing operations fixed by the European Central Bank. Secondly, there is an amendment to the law concerning supervision in the field of public information. First of all, we adopted the Public Information Act, which laid down the general competence of national supervision in the field of data protection. Following this came the Law Enforcement Act, which restricted the competence of national supervision, defining that national supervision is purely non-administrative supervision. In reality, when one administrative body supervises another administrative body, it cannot be regarded as state supervision according to the philosophy of the new law on law enforcement. In order to avoid such an interpretation gap, the law introduces a simple and logical idea that in the area of data protection, both national supervision within the meaning of non-administrative subjects and administrative supervision within the meaning of internal administrative subjects are carried out. The proposal is for the law to enter into force in general terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U129	Questions for the initiator. Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will ask you the same question I asked in the committee, but I will put it here for the verbatim report. This bill regulates the sphere of public information, but the topics are relatively different here. One is an important directive of the European Union and the other is the provisions governing the supervision of compliance with the Public Information Act. Why don't you explain to the bigger auditorium why they're together? Isn't there some elements of the cluster law here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U131	Thank you. Mr Anvelt, the comment of an experienced legal expert, was important and I thoroughly analysed this issue raised by the Commission. I can clearly confirm today that, no, this is not a cluster law in the sense that we have used in poor or crooked legislation when different legal relations issues are stacked together and such an artificial solar system is formed. At present, however, this is one issue, the area of public information, which is being transposed into European Union law and whose supervision is being regulated by a question that could create legal gaps.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U132	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U133	Mr. Minister! There is a standard problem in this draft that has been in place for years. In particular, the harmonisation of the Euro Directives has resulted in a primitive translation from the European English language in order to obtain terms and terms in Estonian. It is probably the most unsuccessful here that the basic term'recovery', the meaning of which is, first, ridiculous, but, second, the expression in Estonian is fixed in a different way. What are the odds, in your view, of the inability or very poor term creation that has taken place in the intervening years, for example, being able to improve even in the course of this procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U134	Thank you. This problem is inevitably the result of massive growth in European Union law, say, particularly in those areas where, also due to technological progress, new artificial words are created for technical concepts or legal regulations. This issue certainly needs to be addressed. I am open to the fact that, if it is possible to find sensible, more suitable Estonian words, these terms could be changed either in Parliament in the course of an internal legislative competition or in the course of the Commission's practical work. The right thing is there are two types of laws. One type of law deals very closely with matters within public authorities and the public reads them less. However, in the case of laws intended for a wider audience, the comprehension and comprehension of the text, including the suitability of terms, are certainly important. Re-use, to be admitted, has two meanings in Estonian. Domestic meaning in the perception of the consumer lies in the energy-efficient use of waste or other public resources. There is a huge mountain of legislation here that concerns European Union law and also Estonia's own legislative initiative. The problems exist here, and I want to address them more thoroughly tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U135	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U136	Thank you, Minister. I think if this expression had been translated with even a word pair of foreign words'secondary use', or if it had been'secondary use', these or other possibilities would have been better and less confusing in the reader. Can it be understood that you are making someone think about or act in this area in your house and that you are bringing us a bunch of words for a second reading, or at least a single new and better Estonian word pair about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U137	I am not going to say that this task is not feasible. Let me put it this way. I'm asking the Ministry staff to think about it. There's another question in itself that I'm not, to tell you the truth, a big specialist. I'm also asking the officials to look into this and send you this information. Indeed, European Union law is translated into the languages of all the Member States by lawyers-linguists of the European Union and is a question of the fact that the term'recovery' contained in this directive, which has already become operational, can be changed in our national law. But I think, speaking of cooperation between terminologists, that everyone is Estonian people, both those who translate in Luxembourg and those who do and enforce this law in Estonia. I promise I'll mention this recycling term to the officials.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U138	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur of the Commission is Andres Anvelt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U139	Mr President! Dear Riigikogu! The debate on the draft was held in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Monday 12 October. All members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs were present, and the Commission was invited by the Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu, Adviser to the Department of Information Technology and Data Security at the Ministry of Justice, Bert Blös, and Jüri Jõema, CEO of the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association. In the Commission, the draft was presented by the minister, as he presented here to the esteemed assembly. He pointed out the two objectives of the draft. Let me repeat them briefly. One objective is the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. The second objective concerns supervision of compliance with the requirements of the Public Information Act. In particular, it concerns the concepts of national supervision and administrative supervision and their organisation in the Public Information Act. Why it has to be done, the Minister explained this earlier. In the Commission, the Minister was asked, inter alia, what the difference is between administrative supervision and national supervision. The Counsellor of the Ministry of Justice explained that. Administrative supervision is the activity of the national supervisory authority on the legality of the activities of the public administration carrier in a particular area. Examples include the activities of the Rescue Board to ensure the fire safety of a government agency. National supervision is the supervision of the institution over non-administrative persons, i.e. the private sector, to a large extent. The Commission discussed the same issue of cluster laws. I brought it up myself. The Minister explained in the Commission, as he explained here, why he does not see such a threat here. The Minister also stressed that the Public Information Act was amended and that there were no amendments to the Law on Law Enforcement in this draft. The Commission was interested in knowing how much the transposition of the Directive could have an impact on the budget of one ministry or another. If national registers are to be widely used, the state may lose some income, as some legal entities may start selling these data themselves. The minister replied that the bill should not pose such a threat. In the current legal system, it is also possible that one legal entity will, for example, buy the entire content of the business register and sell it. At some point, it is necessary to examine whether it would be reasonable to restrict such opportunities in any way. The members of the committee asked the CEO of the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association whether he felt that the bill would solve most of the problems in the field of public information or whether there was something important remaining. The Chief Executive found that the bill solves most of the problems and expressed satisfaction. However, as regards the remuneration for the re-use of public information, the Union considers that public information in databases should be available free of charge. In 2012, when Riigikogu last processed amendments to the Public Information Act, it was agreed that the raw data contained in the database should also be available in machine-readable form free of charge. The fee may be imposed where the holder of the information is required to create an additional service for the processing of the data which he/she does not need. That is how it was decided, first of all, to put the draft on the agenda by 28 October. The decision was consensual. It was also a consensual decision to conclude the first reading. It was proposed to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 11 November, i.e. 10 working days. This decision was also consensual, as was the decision to appoint the speaker to act as rapporteur for the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U140	Thank you very much, good waitress. You have at least one question. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Did the Commission also discuss the compatibility or compatibility of the draft law with the Green Paper on Open Data prepared by our Department of Information Technology of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications? Was this subject raised at all and, if so, in what way?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U142	Thank you. I must admit that this issue was not discussed directly or indirectly in the Commission. However, obviously, on the basis of my experience, I think that during the preparation of the draft, the draft was definitely coordinated with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Minister's report on this round of coordination was certainly not a criticism, but unfortunately it was not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U143	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading of bill 71. I will set the deadline for submitting 71 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 11 November. The first reading is closed and the seventh item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U144	Let's move on to item eight. The first reading of the Bill 80 begins with the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws extending the rights of victims in criminal proceedings. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice of the Riigikogu Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U145	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is an important draft that we are taking over European legislation. My conviction is that we are doing this unambiguously for the sake of the Estonian legal order and better legal protection for the Estonian people. Many of the more bureaucratic or technological nature of legislation relating to the whole of the European space may have a weaker impact on the positive development of real Estonia's life. One of the central points of this draft law is to transpose the European Union directive, which grants victims and victims greater rights in criminal proceedings, which are guaranteed to them in all the Member States of the European Union. This is a serious issue that the Ministry of Justice has also analysed through various studies. It must be acknowledged that, precisely because of ignorance, but also, let us say, because of the lack of personal communication, a large number of victims in contact with investigators in criminal proceedings have had a feeling that they have not received enough information about their rights to behave. Almost a quarter of the respondents felt that they were criminals and had done something wrong. A fifth of the victims or witnesses felt that the policeman did not believe what he was told. It is clear that it is not possible to implement the directive's idea of a personal approach to victims and victims, and to change the attitude only by means of legislation or by means of a legislative text, no matter how detailed the requirements imposed on officials involved in national investigations and prosecutions, training must be provided for to enforce this directive. This is what the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior are planning to do. This law provides victims and victims with a number of specific criminal procedural rights. I'm calling the most important ones here. Public officials will be obliged to explain to victims the possibilities provided for by the Victim Assistance Act, as well as the national compensation for victims of crime, as well as the safeguards under the Code of Criminal Procedure. The obligation is to ensure that the victim receives written confirmation of the reporting of the offence and, where appropriate, translation assistance in submitting and obtaining the declaration of the offence. It is important that the victim has the right to request the translation of important documents in criminal proceedings into his or her native language or language that he or she understands. Currently, translation has created a paradoxical situation in which the accused has greater rights, including the right to be translated when the victim is suffering. It is perfectly objective and logical to say that these things are out of balance. Consequently, by implementing this directive, we are striking a balance between the rights of the victim and those of the accused. The victim will have additional rights to receive the allowance and be able to participate in the procedural procedure with a person of his choice. This means that we are not talking about a professional legal representative, or lawyer. The question is, if a person has survived a tragic crime, in most cases the victim of which he or she is a victim, then one might think that his or her psyche is unbalanced and he or she feels insecure. In this sense, it is good to be able to bring a family member or another close person who, at such a psychologically difficult moment, offers a sense of security and advice. Processors will also be obliged to assess the individual protection needs of the victim. The person concerned must assess the protective measures that can be taken to protect the victim in the proceedings and whether it is necessary to send the victim to the victim's assistant. This is an important role for the police during the procedure. Understandably, according to the law, the defendant must carry out investigations with a view to establishing the truth, but there is now a clear obligation that he must also be responsible for the fact that, if he sees the need for additional individual protection, the victim would receive assistance. In addition, in the case of a simple procedure, the victim becomes aware of the fact that in his case he was the victim of an agreement between the State accuser and the accused person under the ordinary procedure. There is no right at the moment. In many cases, people are called for and helpless, saying that they found out in absentia or were not informed. Secondly, the victim will now also receive information about the release or escape from prison of the person who committed the crime against him. In this case too, the victim has the right to receive information. Separate rights of protection are created for minors. In fact, an analysis of the interrogation of children affected by violent crimes this year also showed in Estonia that there are organisational weaknesses in the interrogation and that minors are not always explained about their situation. Studies of child-suffering within our country have also suggested that greater emphasis should be placed on a personal relationship, building trust in communicating with the victim. The philosophy of this directive also fully supports the recommendations of our national experts. A minor victim whose interests are contrary to the interests of his or her legal representative shall, by way of legal aid, be appointed by the defendant by a lawyer who is his or her independent lawyer. In what cases can the interests of a loved one or a legal representative conflict with the interests of a minor or, say, a child? The most common cases are, of course, domestic violence and certainly sexual abuse. If the person accused of this type of crime and the victim are from one family, where there may be other adult family members, then it is clear that relationships can be very controversial there. That is why it is particularly important, from the point of view of the rights of the minor victim, that he or she has a person with sufficient specific knowledge of the representation of the minor's rights and interests as well as legal knowledge, that he or she has a lawyer who represents his or her rights. The last week, I remember, there was a news report on a serious legal issue. The Supreme Court annulled one of the convictions of the first two stages in the rape case, the central basis for the annulment of the judgment was the argument that the rights of the minor child cannatant had not been sufficiently clarified. Certainly, these planned steps will help to prevent such cases quite well. Apart from greater rights for victims and victims, there is another issue related to national criminal procedural law, which is regulated by this draft. It's a pretty specific legal institute. In particular, under this amendment, a State or other public authority shall also be considered to be a victim of criminal proceedings if it has a material claim arising out of damage to the legal rights which it is possible to enforce in criminal proceedings. In other words, we are currently dealing with civil claims, which can also be brought in criminal proceedings. The criminal judge dealing with the case will then also extract the money from the person convicted in civil proceedings. However, when it comes to an administrative requirement, criminal proceedings do not have this possibility, but must initiate an independent procedure, with its own cost of resources. Tax matters have emerged from practical issues here. Here, for example, we are dealing with the characters of the major record factories who have been convicted of criminal offences. It is only after they have been convicted that an independent procedure begins again in court in order to administratively exonerate money from them, even though the criminal court has already established that they are guilty of a tax crime. It has also given rise to a resonance in the public that the criminal court is condemning the person, but it is not, in fact, the so-called material burden on him. The current practice is that a separate procedure must then be initiated. It seemed reasonable for us to make this arrangement so that, in the interests of procedural economy and common sense, the State could also protect public claims in criminal proceedings if the victim was a public interest, that is, a state. Now. The victim of a legal person shall also be allowed to take part in the proceedings through a staff member authorised by a legal representative. It has created, surprisingly enough, significant confusion. The last issue relates to the fact that, where a person who has committed a criminal offence has not been identified in pre-trial proceedings and it is not possible to collect evidence or to collect it is not feasible, the proceedings shall be terminated by a regulation of the investigating authority or a regulation of the prosecutor's office. The investigating authority is currently issuing a winding-up order in such a situation, which will be sent to the prosecutor's office for approval. Both the prosecutor's office and the overall legal experts' assessment have been such that it is linked to a very high administrative burden and time. As I emphasised in the Commission, this is certainly an issue that needs to be discussed with legal experts dealing specifically with these issues. I hope that this work will be discussed in the Commission. There is certainly a point in enforcing this amendment if there is sufficient clarity that it would in no way undermine the determination of the truth in pre-trial proceedings. At first reading, the government presented this draft with a desire for the law to enter into force in November, including a section on the subject of victims. Obviously, this rate is not realistic. Between two readings, we ask the Commission to enforce the framework of the law on victims from 1 January next year. However, those provisions concerning the submission of public claims in criminal proceedings could enter into force on 1 January 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U146	Thank you, Minister. As you can see, there are still questions about this thorough report. Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U147	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, This is certainly a very grateful draft, which has been submitted to Parliament for processing and is probably adopted quite quickly as a law. My question concerns the costs of implementing the law. The explanatory memorandum analyses the effects very thoroughly and sets out the various costs that the implementation of the law entails. It has also been noted that additional applications for 2016 are currently underway in the state budget process. Can you give some clarification as to how these costs are foreseen and whether there is, in fact, sufficient financial coverage for the activities that the draft provides for?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U148	Thank you. In 2011, the Estonian state joined this directive, I think, Mr Michal was then the Minister of Justice. The country has already committed itself to this and this directive must be enforced. However, the costs must be covered by the operating costs of all the public authorities concerned. It is specifically linked to three public bodies. The Ministry of Justice has, we have predicted, one-off costs for information systems and applications of nearly EUR 40,000. However, the majority of the costs are precisely EUR 125000 in state legal aid for victims of minors. It may be asked whether the overall volume of state legal aid in the state budget is planned to increase. No, it's not. A separate analysis in the field of state legal aid is currently under preparation. I join here in the view of my predecessor, the previous Minister of Justice, Andres Anvelt, that we need to make substantial changes to legal aid. These are the changes that we come up with. I must admit that, on the one hand, if we offer state legal aid, for example, to this group of people too modestly, then, on the other hand, I believe that we have been overly generous about certain crimes, also compared to the practice of other countries. For example, an important part of the cost of state legal aid goes to the protection of the rights of drunk drivers. The second part of the expenditure must be made at the Home Office, as I said. This concerns the training which the Ministry of the Interior must cover from its training budget. In the Ministry of Social Affairs, it is also a tool for the costs of victims of crime, which must be implemented, as well as information and information costs. In the state budget, these operating expenses are earmarked for the Ministry, which is the money that must be spent on them. A separate question is that the aim is to save costs. The directive, too, clearly states with regard to the objective of translation that the victim is to be translated into the most important part of the documents, does not, figuratively speaking, translate by kilos of things that are not relevant to explaining his real core rights. As regards, in general, the translation policy of the state in the field of law, these expenses are primarily borne by the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, I believe that this has been formalistic, generous and impractical. If it is a long, I do not know, a court order or a judgment that contains one episode that is important to one person and therefore translates 100 or 200 pages into English, Russian or Italian, it is not rational or de facto defending its people's rights. In fact, no one reads this document in this foreign language. There is no point in translating such a cabinet. We will come up with a certain optimization proposal in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U149	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U150	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. In accordance with the requirements of the European Union Directive, § 195 (5) of the Code of Criminal Procedure is supplemented, which, according to the explanatory memorandum, allows a person who is the victim of a criminal offence to submit a notification of the offence and who does not speak or understand the language used by the competent authority, to submit a statement of the offence in a language which he understands or to receive language assistance. At the same time, in civil proceedings, a person is not allowed to apply to the courts for language assistance or the possibility of applying for legal aid. What's the difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U151	Thank you. These are procedural situations which require different legal protection. When we talk about reporting a crime, the victim may be a tourist passing through Estonia, but he may also be a person who has lived here for life. This is a very important element in the protection of fundamental rights. It is clear that a person must have the right, regardless of his or her linguistic abilities or skills, to turn to the police to defend his or her rights and to report a crime. You certainly referred to this draft initiated by the Centre Party Group. That the state's legal proceedings should be multilingual and it should be provided that the procedure for the receipt of legal aid applications, which currently provides, in certain cases, for the possibility of submitting an application in English, being a so-called international element, also provides for the possibility of using Russian, I do not support. I also put forward arguments in this debate, which of course does not mean that the factual legal protection of a person, regardless of the language he uses, should not be guaranteed. We will certainly develop these things together by developing the state legal aid system, and we will also discuss them in Parliament. But what I'm trying to say is that these are not comparable categories. One thing is, the victim, the victim, is reporting a crime. Another thing is whether judicial proceedings in civil matters should be multilingual, bilingual or trilingual.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U152	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U153	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. You already spoke a little bit about this new concept of 'public-law claim'. Could you be more specific about who will be able to submit this statement? Which body, which institution?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U154	Thank you. This claim can, of course, be filed by the victim. To give an example of who this particular victim is, what kind of public authority it is, in tax matters the victim has the role of the Tax and Customs Board. State charges are already specifically brought by the prosecutor's office. The prosecutor also has the victim's application in addition to the charge and the prosecutor submits it. So the different tasks of the state have different statuses.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U155	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U156	Thank you, Minister. Now you have, in my view, made a surprising claim that public law is only such claims that can be made by a public authority, probably also by a local authority or, for example, by the Defence League, which are all bodies governed by public law. At first, it seemed to me that this was something like this, if, for example, a public authority takes on the victim's money, damages or compensation, so-called "gives a helping hand in the form of such a claim." I must have misunderstood. Is it now quite certain that these are only state or other bodies and that they are demanding compensation for the damage caused to them themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U157	Yeah. When it comes to whether the State compensates the victim, it is possible for a person to apply for compensation in the case of a catalogue of crimes. In theory, this process should be the same as the work of the motor insurance fund. Criminals who do evil will be convicted in court by a court decision and will also be convicted of certain funds for the benefit of the victims of a future crime. In practice, it must be acknowledged that this is not, of course, a'self-financing system', given the social background of criminals and their financial capacity. Often, financial penalties do not also go unsatisfied. It is not a right for the state to pay out money to the victim and then ask for it back from somewhere. It works a little bit analogous, let's say, with the victim support system. It is meant here as an administrative damage to the state itself, to the public authority, which it has the right to demand, and it can do so through criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U158	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U159	Good chairman of the sitting! Minister, thank you very much. Your report left me with the need for training that this law requires. Could you specify what competence and skills are needed here and how many people are affected?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U160	Thank you. It's about the great circle of people. Firstly, the most sensitive contingent of persons with training needs is those lawyers who will represent children under state legal aid, representing minors victims of near-relations violence or sexual crimes. It is clear that an attitude toward children, the right attitude, requires important expertise so as not to cause additional suffering for children who have already had traumatic experiences. The procedural logic of crimes involving children must be, in particular, delicate in order not to reproduce traumas. Another important group is the sensitivity training of practitioners. It refers to training courses that teach practitioners to take into account the individual needs of victims. They will be organised by the National Defence Academy next year. The third group is social, training on child protection rights needs to be organised. I know when I say a, I have it in my letter, but I'm people-by-people, I'm honest, I don't know exactly how much training it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U161	Ken-Marti Vaher, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U162	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question may not concern a very large circle of people or the target group, but it concerns those who, in my opinion, are likely to be suffering. I am thinking, for example, of those who, as drivers, have harmed another person, either injured him or caused his death. However, the procedure reveals that this person did everything right as a driver and, unfortunately, did the one who was injured. In fact, the driver himself is a victim who is likely to be going through this rather tragic case. Was the potential status of such a target group as victims, victims, under discussion in the draft? Is it also intended to provide services to such persons?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U163	This is a very important aspect and a specific group of persons. In procedural terms, the person can still be either one or the other. If a person has been convicted and injured of a traffic offence, it must be recognised that it is dealt with in accordance with the general rules of the Directive. No special treatment is foreseen.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U164	Dmitri Dmitriev, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U165	Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister, first of all, I will correct you. With the draft law amending the State Legal Aid Act submitted by the Central Party Group, we did not request a change in the language of the case. This single amendment we tabled concerned the prohibition on submitting an application. We tried to put forward a proposal so that it would be possible to apply in Russian as well. Do you not think that, in the light of the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the Chamber today, which allows a criminal offence to be reported in Russian, for example, and, if necessary, allows some of the regulation to be translated into Russian for example, it would not be logical to allow legal aid applicants from the state to submit their applications in Russian? This idea has also been supported by the Estonian Bar Association.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U166	Thank you. There are two different things. One thing is whether we are setting up a 'legal' format and making legal proceedings multilingual. That's right. I can tell you that I have accepted the position of the Justice Department. The second issue is that, of course, people must be guaranteed legal protection so that they can realise their fundamental rights, regardless of the language they speak or their educational, linguistic or other background. In society there are certain groups whose awareness of their rights is lower and who may therefore be more vulnerable to defending their rights. I'm sure there's a facet of linguistic ignorance here. But there are other aspects, such as just general social inability in society, educational background, special needs regarding the person's state of health, and so on. I've been talking about this in concrete terms. The last time I spoke to the president of the Harju County Court, I asked him if a person had a practical question, no matter what his language background is, and he wants legal assistance. I learned that none of the people who have expressed their will in any language they have done so have left these practical questions unsolved. The key you have proposed, this dogmatic approach, is not acceptable because it means setting a precedent that I cannot tolerate. With what you pointed out as your objective, asking whether the fact that people with different language backgrounds receive legal assistance and are aware of their rights is legitimate, and whether this situation needs to be improved from the point of view of the ministry, I join in one hundred percent. We're working on it, and that's what the former Minister of Justice, Anvelt, put into our hearts. We come up with our proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U167	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U168	Mr. Minister! In the debate on the previous item, I asked a question on language. Here, too, there is actually the same problem. 'Public claim' or 'public claim' are cumbersome, apparently incomprehensible and irrational. Maybe we could find a better expression here too. However, I wanted to express my appreciation because such a compact and sensible draft has rarely been seen in this area. However, my question is what is the probability that all the problems arising from criminal proceedings in the departments of the ministries will be incorporated into this draft during the proceedings and will result in such a package bill or package bill changing the law for a hundred places or what to call it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U169	This problem is practically in our law. It's a question of culture. It's not a norm, it can't be limited. I hope this bill doesn't happen. I hope that, in Parliament's legal practice, we will jointly move towards improving the predictability of legislative procedures. Yes, we've had a growing problem with satellite precepts, and that's not normal. There's a temptation. People are looking for an easier way in practice. It's natural. This search for a lighter path has been a key feature of the evolution of civilizations after seeking immortality. I'm sure it's not free of it, I admit honestly, even the Ministry of Justice. In the debate on the previous point, Mr Anvelt pointed out whether it was reasonable to put the two things together. I don't think it crossed a critical line, but it could be upset. Here, too, you might ask that you may want to slice these things apart, even here you may be able to identify independent topics. I think this is the core of the so-called common sense, common sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U170	Minister, thank you. No further questions. It is now a great honour for me to ask Kristjan Kõljalg, Member of the Legal Committee of the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U171	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 12 October, the Committee on Legal Affairs heard the Deputy Secretary-General of the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice in the field of criminal policy, who provided us with explanations on the content and objectives of the draft and answered the questions asked. As the Minister has already mentioned, this is largely a transposition of European Union law. On these points, I will not stop and I will talk about the most important issue we have in the Commission. This concerned § 2001 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is to be amended by the bill, concerning the termination of criminal proceedings due to the indiscoverability of the person who committed the crime, and the necessity of this amendment. According to the draft law, criminal proceedings could be terminated by the investigating authority itself or by a regulation of the prosecutor's office if the person who committed the crime has not been identified and if the evidence cannot be collected or if the pre-trial practitioner considers that the taking of evidence is impractical. The representative of the Ministry explained that the change was necessary to release the resources of the prosecutor's office, as such regulations would take considerable time. For example, in 2014, almost 12990 such rules on the winding-up of criminal cases were drawn up. We had the most serious discussion on this issue. I will also read the decisions. We decided to propose the completion of the first reading (consensually) and to propose that the deadline for the submission of amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 6 November (also by consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U172	Good waitress, after such a thorough report, there is at least one question for you. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U173	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You said that there was a longer debate on what was at the moment and whether to close this procedure at all. I wonder what this time dimension can be like on such occasions. We know that crimes have also been investigated for ten or five years, things have been re-examined and the perpetrators have also been identified. How's this going to turn out?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U174	Thank you for your question. In fact, yes, there are limitation periods, I don't dare say them by heart right now. But in principle, when new circumstances become apparent, it will always be possible to renew the investigation and continue the procedure. So if it's clear that any facts are known, the investigation will continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U175	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Dear representatives of the political groups, please take an active part in the negotiations. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Mr Andres Anvelt, representative of the Social Democratic Party, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U176	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, actually, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am seriously pleased that, as they say, the long-made beauty, the so-called Victims' Directive Act, the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the legal language, has arrived in this Chamber. When the Minister introduced the draft to us very thoroughly earlier, I come to the vital and emotional side of the draft. Violent crime is a major problem in Estonia. Although their number has fallen dramatically over the years, unfortunately, the share of killings and murders related to domestic violence has increased in the total number of murders and violent crimes. Nearly 35% of all violent crimes are related to domestic violence. The emotional side is also about the sexual abuse of young people and not just of young people, but of people at all. Here too, the figures are quite appalling: nearly 15% of boys and young men between the ages of 20 and 44% of girls and girls of the same age have experienced sexual abuse in their lives. A special sign of domestic violence and sexual abuse in society is that it is passed on to the next generation, whether it is a direct perception of this violence or an indirect witness. That is why the provisions for victims are very important. For decades, we have been developing our criminal proceedings from the perspective of how it would be better to deal with suspects and accused people in particular, how this would be easier for the prosecution. We have brought our laws into line with international standards, defending suspects and accused persons against a possible national power. But we have left the suffering behind. The consequence is that the police, or even the investigative authorities, will receive much less than half of the cases where a person has been physically abused. Why is that? People often don't trust law enforcement bodies, they're afraid to come out with their problem, they're afraid to be alone. It's what keeps a person, a victim, away from criminal proceedings. Estonia signed the Istanbul Convention last year, which awaits the signing and ratification of the coalition agreement in this Chamber as well. Our government has adopted a strategy to prevent violence. Both these important documents are also precisely designed to deal with the rights of the victim and the victim. This bill is the first step towards the implementation of these two important documents. The biggest risk for the victim is, like I said, he's gonna be alone. The second thing is his ignorance of the rights that the state has created for him, of the elements of social protection that the state can offer him. I'll have a few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U177	Yeah, a few minutes. I think that means three minutes. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U178	If he doesn't know all this, like I said, you're not going to talk about your problem. The consequence is that the perpetrator, the same suspect or potential accused, continues to use violence, either mentally or physically. Because he sees that the state does not impose any punishment on him, the victim is under his influence, not only under psychological influence, but also under material influence in the case of domestic violence. He feels unpunished. He feels like he's controlling the situation. I very much hope that the measures that are set out in this bill will make law enforcement bodies feel differently or create a minimum standard of how they should communicate with victims. I'm not saying that police and investigative authorities, for example, have not already changed their attitude. In particular, the increase in the number of cases of close relationship violence has been primarily linked to people's courage to come to the police to talk about this problem; society does not condemn them. In the future, when this law enters into force, we will set a minimum standard, so that a person does not need to know it himself, but a representative of the investigative body or a police representative is obliged to explain to him what he or she is facing and what elements of legal and social protection he or she has. Finally. Domestic violence is not a minor issue. I particularly like the fact that the victim will be protected in the future. If, for example, the person who caused him or her suffering begins to escape from prison or escapes or is released before the deadline, the victim will be able to learn about it and, if necessary, arrange his or her life in such a way that he or she does not reenter the sphere of influence of that person. So I wish this bill, as they say, a wind to its wings. This is a first but very important step in changing the doctrine of our criminal proceedings so that the most important person in criminal proceedings is still the victim. If the victim does not feel safe, crime will not go away because people simply do not dare to turn to the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U179	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 80 must be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting 80 amendments on 6 November at 16 a.m. The first reading is also closed and the eighth item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U180	We will move on to the ninth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act 93 on the General Part of the Social Code initiated by the Government of the Republic. It is a great honour to ask the Minister of Social Protection Margus Tsahkna for a speech chair in the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U181	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Good Riigikogu! Draft Act 93 on the General Part of the Social Code has been submitted by the Government of the Republic and its purpose is to establish in Estonian law the Act on the General Part of the Social Code (as a member of the Society). The General Part of the Social Code Act establishes uniform foundations for the Estonian social protection system and the organisation of social protection. The aim is to develop and describe the existing social law system. The General Part of the Social Code Act provides for basic concepts to be used in a coherent and consistent way in the area of social law. The Law on the General Part of the Social Code improves the legal quality of the current fragmented social legislation through harmonisation. The Society will ensure greater clarity of the rights and obligations of persons through a central general law. This law envisages more effective administrative procedures in line with the specific characteristics of social law and modern technological solutions, increasing legal awareness in the field of social law, raising awareness of social law as a scientific discipline, and laying down the legal bases for the social protection information system SAIS 2. The general part of the Social Code Act aims to establish general legal bases, as I mentioned, in order to protect people and families by preventing and eliminating or reducing social risks, in particular in the event of unemployment, sickness, maternity, incapacity, old age, loss of nutrition, raising children, victimisation of crime, special social needs and difficulties in coping. This law also sets out for the future the basic terms of social law "social protection' and "benefit' and "financial and non-financial compensation' as its categories. The immediate effect of the draft is to establish the principles of social law, which, as general principles, extend to the whole social sector. The General Part of the Social Code Act lays down the general principles of human dignity, ownership, solidarity, the obligation to explain and assist public authorities, the confidentiality of social protection and cooperation between public authorities. The draft thus results in particular from a minimum standard of principle, which is the basis for any action in the field of social protection. In the sectoral view of the specific parts of the social code currently being prepared, the draft has a particular impact on welfare, work and families. When it comes to the practical application of the development of the social protection information system, the principles of the General Part of the Social Code Act are also introduced for the tasks set out in other social legislations carried out by the Social Insurance Board. Social Insurance Institution develops one of the largest IT systems in Estonia, namely SKAIS 2. With regard to the development of this information system, the Act implementing the General Part of the Social Code Act is being developed, which extends the principles of the Society to other social legislation. The aim is the uniformity of procedures, which increases the fundamental rights of individuals. The entry into force of the draft does not entail directly additional tasks for state or local government institutions. Speaking about the development of the Social Protection Information System (SKAIS 2) in a few words, it is planned for the years 2014 to 2016 and the total cost of the development is EUR 7.7 million. It is financed on the basis of a state budget of EUR 3.6 million and EUR 4.1 million from the European Union's Structural Funds. The entry into force of the Bill is planned with the entry into force of the Social Welfare Act, as the General Part of the Act, together with the Special Part of the Act, will take effect, and the first reading of the draft Social Welfare Act is scheduled after the completion of this reading. That's all for me right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U182	Thank you. Good colleagues, do you have any questions? Yes! George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U183	Yes, thank you! It's a really interesting bill, I watched it. One first question that arises here: do I understand correctly that the word'reimbursement' has become absolutely synonymous with 'payment' in the internal jargon of your administration? Perhaps the meaning of that word is no longer that there is an object to be compensated for, or that there is no harm that could have happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U184	Thank you. If we look at this law, the compensation within the meaning of this law is the financial compensation paid and the in-kind compensation granted. It is classified as both financial and non-financial. I am certainly not able to go into a thorough legal dispute here at the moment, but that is the classification of compensation for the purposes of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U185	George Adams, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U186	Thank you, Mr President. No, I'm not talking about a legal dispute. It's not here right now. I only have a linguistic problem. You see, there are benefits for various things, we also have cost benefits in the Riigikogu. In my opinion, the average Estonian would be perfectly logical and understandable if the word'reimbursement' coincides more or less with the essence in both contexts. What, then, is it that we have to take into account in this context that the cost benefits are payments by the Riigikogu (this should be the case in the minds of ordinary citizens) which have no substantive explanation as to why they are made, that they are some kind of payment under a political agreement, such as benefits within the meaning of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U187	Yes, it is a really interesting debate, i.e. to compare them with the benefits provided for in this law, which the Riigikogu has been dealing with for years, constantly, in every composition. Well, in the case of compensation, that's the use of the word. This law also regulates very precisely what this benefit is and under what conditions it is also included in the special part of the law when the general part of the law is being implemented, it is possible for persons to receive both cash benefits and benefits in kind provided through services. Clearly, both the general part of the Social Welfare System Act and its operative part, i.e. for which and under what conditions the benefit is paid, have been made more precise. Such precise regulation has not yet been laid down in the case of Riigikogu cost benefits, and in this sense the Riigikogu certainly has a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U188	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U189	Thank you. My dear colleague, Jüri Adams, raised quite an interesting question: what is the content of the word'reimbursement'? I assume what this compensation is is taken from the Dictionary explaining Estonian. This dictionary tells us that compensation means both damages and compensation in legal terms. We will then ask, in the sense of this law, whether compensation should primarily be compensation or compensation for something.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U190	Thank you. This law also contains a copy of what is compensation for the purposes of that law. Cash benefits are cash benefits, pensions, insurance benefits or other amounts of money. And in-kind compensation is an advantage granted to a person that does not consist in paying a sum of money, in particular the service provided to a person or the organisation of the provision of a service, etc. That's quite an interesting question, frankly, when you look at the dictionary of the right language. I have to admit, I didn't watch it when I came here. The word'reimbursement' has been used in the field of our social law for many years. At the very least, the general part of this law specifically clarifies what is meant by it, and the special sections also clearly lay down the conditions in which a person is entitled to compensation for the purposes of that law and what those benefits are. But this is an interesting debate and the Committee on Social Affairs can certainly continue to do so here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U191	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U192	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good performer! It's an interesting bill, but I'll ask you this. For example, the Social Work Association did not coordinate this by claiming that there would be a high additional burden for officials and that resources should also be allocated. I ask whether their concern is unfounded, i.e. there will be no more work and enough money will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U193	Thank you. This law is part of the process of codification, which is, in fact, we are simplifying the understanding of laws at the level of the state, local authorities and people. This is the Constitution in the sense that definitions and terms are explained here. After all, we also had a question about previous questions about what compensation is in the sense of this law. These concepts have also been clarified here. And now that we're practically looking at it, when the same SKAIS 2 that I was talking about, the Social Insurance Board's information system, the burden on officials will be reduced. At the Social Insurance Institution, a number of people can start doing some other work, as there is currently a great deal of manual work. Certainly, the understanding of the law should also become better and clearer in legal and linguistic terms. This is a general part of the law. As far as implementation is concerned, what will actually regulate the so-called "special elements," we will now discuss one law as the next item on the agenda. So this is the law of the special part, with which the general part of the law should also apply, because the general part of the law alone, without the special part, cannot be applied in real life.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U194	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U195	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Chapter 5 talks about the Social Protection Information System and this chapter enters into force on 1 January 2017. Let's talk about Skiis 2. Could you, please, just for the sake of clarity, tell us what's going on until the new system starts? How are we going to do this until then?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U196	We have an information system called "SKAIS 1" completed in 2000. And it is no secret that, in the meantime, the development of information technology has been very vigorous and that, in fact, the SKAIS 1 works within the limits of its most recent capabilities. We are now working hard to ensure that the SKIAIS 1 is working and, at the same time, to implement the SKIAIS 2. It seems like such a mysterious story here, but it is indeed the development and implementation of one of the largest information systems in the Estonian state. Just so you understand the daily activities of the Social Insurance Board, I say that the Social Insurance Board makes over 750,000 payments in one month, for example. In addition, there is a huge amount of personal data in this information system, including sensitive personal data, and the implementation of the SKAIS 2 is also linked to the health information system, etc. This is one big step forward, but it must be done with great thought. Above all, it must be taken into account that this is really about people who are inside the social protection system for one reason, another reason or third reason, and also that we are dealing with personal data in this system, which must be very clearly protected. A person must also be able to monitor how this data is used. So this is precisely the basis of the basic, the so-called concepts and the integrated system that is provided by a specific draft law. Its daily application is certainly much more complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U197	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U198	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. We heard that, in fact, SKIAIS 1 is on the verge of collapse, and the whole year must live in fear and hope that it will not collapse. If we are now adopting the General Part of the Social Code Act and also the Social Welfare Act, which will enter into force on 1 January (part of the provisions also later), then in fact, certain procedures must already be carried out. It also puts an additional burden on the SKAIS 1 that we currently have in place. How is this work arranged? Will people start operations using Excel tables at the end of the knee until the new program is finished?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U199	Thank you. I'm telling you, there's no reason to fear that the SKAIS 1 will collapse because he's working right now. However, given, for example, developments relating to the implementation of the work capacity reform, which relate specifically to the movement of personal data, not only in the Social Insurance Board's system, but, above all, the movement of personal data between the health information system and other databases, SKAIS 1 would not be able to make it possible. That's what I was gonna say. And indeed some of the operations, as you said, will enter into force from 1 January 2016 (or when the law has been passed, the Riigikogu decides to enforce it), but also in such a case it will be possible to use the SKAIS 1 and the corresponding developments will be prepared and worked out. But yes, let's say, the modern and completely new generation information system is the SkyS 2 that will enter into force on full iron in 2017. And we will also be sure to keep an eye on the fact that tests have been carried out before, so that people are not deprived of some financial compensation, for example, because of the information system, or some taxes or other information are lost.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U200	Minister, thank you. No further questions. And now, good members of the Riigikogu, it is my great honour to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu here, none other than Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U201	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Social Affairs Committee has discussed the draft Act 93 on the General Part of the Social Code in its three sessions. This was discussed for the first time on 12 October when the Minister for Social Protection briefed the Commission on the draft Act 93 on the General Part of the Social Code. The members of the Commission heard the presentation of the draft and asked for further questions on the entry into force of the draft. It also asked about the processing of sensitive personal data, to which the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that it was not regulated by the Social Code, in particular it is stated in the Social Welfare Act. Four decisions were also taken by the Commission: the proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda at 14 p.m. on 28 October (the decision was consensual), the proposal to close the first reading (by 6 members of the Commission, adopted 2) and the proposal to set 10 working days for the amendments, i.e. 11 November at 17.15 p.m. (by 5 members of the Commission, against 1) and to appoint Aivar Kokk (consensually) as rapporteur. For the second time, the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this issue at a public session on 20 October, where the Minister of Social Protection and the Legal Advisers of the Ministry of Social Affairs were heard, who introduced the content and objectives of the draft Act on the General Part of the Social Code to the Commission. Various parties were also invited to the meeting: representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Estonian Association of Municipalities and the Association of Estonian Cities, as well as members of the board of the Association of Rehabilitation Institutions and the Board of the Maarja Päikikodu Foundation. For the third time, this draft law was discussed at the meeting of the Social Committee of the Riigikogu on 22 October, where the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs gave the Commission an overview of the content of the draft law on the general part of the social code and answered the questions of the members of the committee. In the course of the debate, there was also talk about the SKIAIS 2. That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U202	Got it. Looks like it was a constructive and thorough presentation, no questions asked. Thank you, good waitress. Dear representatives of the political groups, would you like to open negotiations? You'd like to. Let's open the negotiations. Please ask Jüri Adams, representative of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, to the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U203	Mr President! Wednesday night is extremely suitable for speeches, and I suppose it is also useful. Let us begin by saying that the aim of the first reading of the drafts should be to answer two questions: firstly, whether a law such as that proposed by the draft is needed at all in the country, and secondly, whether the draft proposed is suitable for this purpose. These two questions will motivate me to come to the speaker's desk. I've had the opportunity to participate in making a law with a similar title. It was the law of the General Part of the Civil Code. I've been doing two versions of this law in years. And I have to say, that law was absolutely necessary. This is the general part of the law of property law, the family law, the law of succession and the law of debt and, in comparison, of course, the law of the general part of the social code would not be necessary. It means that if he didn't, tomorrow would be nothing. But if the law of the General Part of the Civil Code disappeared one day in the power of some magic wand, it would be a kind of disaster. So these aren't comparable things. However, it is quite right that common procedures are needed in the social field, so that people know that if they apply for some form of social assistance, regardless of the differences between applications, the application forms are the same. It must be clear what are the standard documents to be submitted, what are the supporting documents to be submitted, what are the places to be applied, in which form and within what time limit a reply is expected. This is the common part that is actually necessary. And it can really be lifted out of all other laws of different forms of social support, and that would certainly be a very friendly step towards the citizen. But there are parts of the bill that are seriously problematic. One is the question of the use of the word'reimbursement' in a very specific sense. The fact that a term may have several different meanings in Estonian law is not very rare, of course. And it's not completely avoidable either. For example, the concept of 'guilty' is very important in criminal law in one sense and in civil law in another. Journalists constantly confuse them, which is sad in some ways and kind of funny. However, if the word'reimbursement' has one meaning in different areas of public law, for example in the areas of work of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but in the other 12 or 13 ministries it is used differently, then in the end, all ministries make various payments to people. If, in one case, it is called compensation and in another, it is not very justified in my opinion. And the Commission, which is working on this bill, could think a little bit about it, and think in particular about the fact that today we each have our own legal consul. We google all things, put the word'reimbursement' in the computer, get answers, and see that these answers are contradictory. So there are a whole series of things that the Commission could do. Moreover, there is a part of this bill that should not be included at all. It's part of the internal organisation of the Ministry of Social Affairs that they have their own information system. It's good to have it. Other ministries also have their own information systems, but the rules on their work do not need to be in any general part of the law. At least the General Part of the Civil Code Act does not describe the details of any information system. Can I have a little more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U204	Yeah, three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U205	Thank you! There's another problem here. See, the basic meaning of the term 'claim' is private. That's when one person thinks the other one owes him and says please pay me back that debt. That's a requirement. And if the debtor doesn't pay back or pays a different amount, we can go to court, etc. I do not think that if the Ministry of Social Affairs recovers the amount of money paid out because of some kind of miscarriage or an official's mistake, it should bear the meaning of the same word. Perhaps it could be replaced by a different word, even from the same strain, 'demand' so that these things are not confused. There were a few more of those nice things. The third paragraph of Article 17 of the really good joke to a person who has come into contact with the law is that the waiver of entitlement to compensation is negligible. I'm assuming there's going to be a nullity. I imagine that this is about a situation where a person reports at some point that I do not want the pension of the Estonian state at all, and I live myself. But then, a few years later, he'll change his mind that he'll still take the pension that the law provides. In my opinion, this right means that such unilateral declarations of refusal are never binding or binding on the State. So these anecdotal formations could be scraped out of this bill before it continues its consistent path towards becoming a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U206	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading of bill 93 should be terminated. I will set the deadline for submitting 93 amendments, including 11 November at 5.15 p.m. The first reading and the ninth item have therefore been closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U207	Let us move on to the tenth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Social Welfare Act 98 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Minister of Social Protection Margus Tsahkna to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U208	Dear Vice-Chairman, Good Riigikogu! The draft Social Welfare Act is a special part of the draft law discussed under the previous paragraph. The draft establishes a new comprehensive law on social welfare. The draft is linked to the programme of action of the Government of the Republic, according to which the state will improve the quality of care services by developing a common quality framework to ensure uniform quality and availability of services across Estonia. The purpose of the draft measure is to make the regulation of the obligation to assist more legally at both national and local level. In order to achieve this, the draft has clearly distinguished the assistance provided by the state and local government units in organising social protection. According to the Local Government Organisation Act, the local government unit is responsible for organising the provision of social assistance and social services to persons in need of assistance in their territory. This is a mandatory self-governing task, the content of which is set out in this draft, at the minimum or the most important level of social services. The bill sets out specific services, i.e. home services, non-home general care services, personal helper service, support person service, social transport service, asylum service, shelter service, debt counselling and provision of living space minimum requirements. Compared to the law in force, the draft has included a service of debt counselling, shelter and general care. In essence, these services are local social services, which are currently provided to persons and which are legally compulsory for local government entities to provide. The minimum requirements for services set out in the draft will focus on those aspects that ensure that the objective of the service is achieved. Each service describes its purpose, the responsibilities of the local government unit in organising the service and the requirements of the service provider. The provision of the service is linked to the person's need for assistance, which is assessed by the local government unit prior to the provision of the service. There are no requirements for the evaluation of the draft. If, following an assessment of a person's need for assistance, a local authority considers that a person needs, for example, a personal assistant service, this service must meet the minimum requirements laid down by law. The draft does not oblige local authorities to provide all the services mentioned in the draft, but leaves them with discretion and discretion as to the choice of the aid measure to be granted to the person concerned. The aim of the proposed amendment is to contribute to the harmonisation of the quality of services at local government level and to the improvement of performance. The draft will contribute to raising awareness of the possibilities and objectives of assistance to those in need. A clearer regulation will also enable the state to get a better overview of which municipalities need to improve the quality and availability of services and, if necessary, to plan changes at national level to improve the situation. The minimum requirements laid down in the draft for local government units and social services are also necessary for the successful implementation of the employment capacity reform. There are also rules relating to aids and social rehabilitation services and the payment of income support, but these changes have already been adopted by the Riigikogu and will enter into force on 1 January 2016. This debate has already taken place in this Chamber. These rules will not be amended by this draft, but the content of these provisions will be incorporated into the text of the full Act. The entry into force of the Act does not entail any additional costs for state or local government institutions. In order to support local authorities in developing social services, improving the quality of services and planning access, the Ministry of Social Affairs has planned a grant of EUR 31 million from the European Social Fund. The funds can be applied for through open calls for proposals and applications can be submitted from the beginning of 2016. In conclusion, I stress that the aim of the draft is to contribute to the harmonisation of the quality of local government services and the improvement of performance. The minimum requirements for services will improve the content of the assistance practice and help rural governments to monitor the services. Quality services at local level that meet people's needs are an important basis for the successful implementation of the employment capacity reform. It was during the discussion of the laws relating to the reform of working capacity in the Riigikogu that a number of organisations representing people with disabilities, with special needs, indicated that we do not have the minimum requirements for social welfare services provided by local authorities. Providing people with the necessary assistance in a timely manner will help prevent social problems from getting worse and avoid problems that are ultimately more costly for both the state and the local government. The planned date of entry into force of the Act is 1 January 2016 and, together with this Act, the General Part of the Social Code Act will enter into force. This pace is quite rapid and requires quite a lot of work from the Riigikogu, including the Social Affairs Committee. I would like to congratulate the Committee on Social Affairs, which has done a very good job by involving interest groups in a number of public and reciprocal meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U209	Thank you. Minister, there are also questions for you. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U210	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I will look at the explanatory statement: there are quite a large number of people who have taken part in the preparation of this draft. And in your speech, I didn't read how many times the words "local government." I would like to ask you what is the comment of the local government leaders or specialists, i.e. those who work in this area. Can you comment in any way on their views on this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U211	Thank you. I must admit that the preparation of this law has been going on for years. From the Ministry of Social Affairs, this law has not reached the Riigikogu before because the questions have been raised precisely because, in the Social Welfare Act, for example, the introduction of minimum requirements for services provided by local governments, whether or not it is imposing an additional obligation on them. I must also admit that the requirements that have been set and recorded here are indeed minimum requirements below which the service should not actually be provided. Also in legal terms, it is not a question of assigning new tasks to local authorities, but of clarifying existing obligations. The argument has largely been in this frame. The government is based on the fact that we are making laws, in particular a special section of laws and implementing laws, for those people who need help in the social system. And the state has the right to specify what is done for the money of these same people, how they will be guaranteed at least a minimum level and also as a'minimum list' the availability of services across Estonia. The problem is that the availability of social welfare services across Estonia has been very different. Most municipalities certainly provide these services at a higher level than minimum requirements require. But the point is that if a person is located in any municipality and needs a service and the municipality decides, as a result of its own assessment, that yes, that person really needs that service, then the municipality has a "choice' at what minimum level he must provide the service. In fact, these standards or minimum requirements have also been on the website of the Ministry of Social Affairs and have been recommended to municipalities. Now we set requirements as a specific list that when a municipality provides a particular service, it must meet these requirements. The representatives of the local governments have not given their approval to this draft, but I have to admit, on the basis of my political experience, that it is very difficult to get coordination from them on most of the issues relating to local governments. This is where the state must act as a state in view of the interests of its people and, together with the municipalities, apply this law as much as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U212	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U213	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, This new law also entrusts local authorities with the task of providing shelter services for victims of close relationship violence. This is something new, and both the Cities Association and the City of Tallinn have said that it is useless because the network of support centres for women has been set up throughout Estonia as non-profit organisations and it would be difficult for local governments to carry out this task because it is a very delicate subject and it is necessary to preserve confidentiality. Why did the Ministry decide to include this point in the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U214	Thank you. After all, our municipalities are still providing shelter services. And if we look at this specific support network, which has been built up thanks to our third sector and which will also be state-funded for the third year, then indeed, this network of security centres for victims of violence against women is very specific, i.e. it guarantees anonymity and the whole side. With this specific provision, we will certainly not take away, say, the functions from the safety centres of victims of violence against women, but we will specify here the same service that the municipalities have offered anyway. After all, the municipalities provide shelter services, and there is also a list, but I am not going to read this text. Maybe I didn't quite understand the question, sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U215	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U216	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! To my amazement, I heard there was no need for local authority coordination because they're such cumbersome guys and they're not gonna give it anyway. I would like to remind you that they have given the government a basket twice on this draft, and if you read the comments, most of their proposals have not been taken into account. Is that how it's supposed to be? In fact, it is a question of placing a heavy burden on the shoulders of the municipalities and of compensating for these expenses, which are not being done, but being driven over by a roller. Is that normal, or should we discuss it further?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U217	Thank you. I have not said that the opinion of local governments should not be taken into account. But what we are doing is that, first of all, we are not imposing additional obligations on local authorities. We are not imposing any additional obligations on them. We will specify the minimum level at which municipalities should provide certain services. That's what this bill says. It is simply that we see in different areas (e.g. in the field of education, wherever) that when the state starts to regulate something, every move is very clearly qualified as an additional obligation, to which separate funding must be added to the local government's income base. This law does not increase the costs of local governments. Municipalities will have EUR 1 million unexploited in the middle of each year of the money intended for the provision of social welfare services. These are the scraps that have come out. The implementation of this law also provides an opportunity to get a better picture of problems where more help is needed and where existing opportunities are not exploited. So what I want to say is that, in fact, this organisational bill, which, in the same way, guarantees the accessibility of services to all people across Estonia, no matter which local government they do not live in, is a minimum level of availability of services. Rather, this bill will help the municipalities. On the other hand, I say that, in parallel with the implementation of this law, we must also address raising people's legal awareness, informing them of their rights. People need to know that they have the right to receive help from their municipality in certain cases if they need it. And these requirements, when they need a particular service, are also beautifully recorded in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U218	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U219	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, While you claim that the draft does not impose any additional obligations on the municipalities, but by reading these paragraphs and chapters, it is clear that this is not true. There is a significant increase in the amount of working time spent on providing services, which in turn requires the hiring of additional officials, and there is a significant increase in paperwork. So the fixed costs of local governments are increasing significantly. At the same time, you said that there would be no additional funding, but there would be some kind of funding on a project basis. How is it possible that you try to finance fixed costs on a project basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U220	Thank you. I did not understand a little bit about covering fixed costs on a project-by-project basis. How do I tell you nicely now? I have seen for years in this Chamber such an argument that there is a country somewhere that is bad, and there are municipalities somewhere. But very few people in this Chamber are talking about people living in these municipalities, that the Estonian state is made up of people for whom we make these laws. And this is the money of the Estonian people, which the state is redistributing, and also through local governments, either as direct cash benefits or as services, i.e. benefits in kind, we had a very educational discussion here at the previous point Municipalities have a task, which is not voluntary, but mandatory, to help people who live in their territory and who need help. It's their duty today. This law does not deprive them of any obligation, nor does it impose any obligation. This law provides a list of specific minimum requirements for those services which are listed here but are not restrictive either. If a person needs other help from a municipality, he or she must also receive it. That's actually the point of this thing. And there is nothing being imposed on the municipalities, they only have to provide these services. Municipalities retain everything, as is currently the case, i.e. the right to self-determination. Municipalities themselves assess whether a person needs such care specifically or needs something else. Even now, municipalities have a duty to care for their own people, and this law does not change either way. So let us also consider who we are doing this law for.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U221	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U222	Thank you. I'm gonna move on to that question right now. The municipality appreciates whether a person needs or does not need a service, but what is not offered is not possible. And when we look at this bill, quality requirements are counted here, which is very important, but my question is still how the accessibility of the necessary social services for people is ensured in all municipalities. Has anything changed since then? In the previous Riigikogu, I remember, you were very angry that these services were not available to everyone, but now it is a bill with which everything is available. How is that possible? Very good trick!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U223	Thank you. I have always felt that minimum requirements or standards for social welfare services should be established. If it were up to me, these requirements would be even tougher. But given the actual capacity of the municipalities, it is indeed a matter of setting minimum standards. I do not understand why the availability of services should deteriorate with regard to the introduction of these requirements. This argument has sounded, but there is no real justification behind it. If you look at the text of this same law, this list of services (I suggest you read), you really mean that a particular service provided by the municipality could not be provided below. What is important is that local governments retain and must retain the right to assess what kind of help a person needs and whether he or she needs any help, because he or she is closest to a person. The role of the municipality is actually known, evaluated and combined with the need for aid. But this, I say, is the minimum level that needs to go on. I would also like to remind you that, when there was a debate on the reform of working capacity in this Chamber and in society at all, it was precisely the one topic that was constantly raised to the very different level of support for these services, which are social welfare services, across Estonia. And that is the aim of this draft, the aim of which is to harmonise the quality of these services, to describe the minimum requirements below which they must not go, and to ensure that they are available. Indeed, out of the European Social Fund, we have a planned EUR 31 million for municipalities for this period through an open call for proposals to enable them to improve the organisation of their services or to meet the main objective of reducing the cost of maintenance. I myself have been critical of what happens when this money runs out. However, the purpose of the Social Fund and any European money is not to cover running costs, but to support us in some kind of reforms during a transitional period in order for these reforms to enter into force. That's what it's 31 million euros for. We must consider that at the same time, the work capacity reform will also enter into force. We talked today about the fact that we are also reorganizing the provision of a tool for providing a service and we are providing additional resources for this. The next year and the next year will be a year of major reforms in the social protection system at all. There have been preparations for this for many years. Helmen Kütter knows this from his own hands, because the work was actually before, it has not come unexpectedly. It is up to us to dare politically to make these decisions and to look at the picture more broadly. That is why, almost in parallel, there are different laws in the proceedings in this Chamber. The Social Affairs Committee has a comprehensive picture and these legislative changes will result in modern information systems already being used in the implementation of the new laws. This is part of a large plan to improve the availability of services across Estonia, especially for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U224	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U225	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have the same question that Mr Põllamas has already started here and with which you have continued. With the support of the European Social Fund, the 'project-based' Brussels side of the funding of the services that have been put on the shoulders of the municipalities, you yourself had doubts about its sustainability. Really, this is a unsustainable activity. There's plenty of money for a while, and every time you write a project, you don't get any money at one point. So where does the money come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U226	Thank you. If we were to simply accept the European Social Fund money, distribute it and do nothing about it, do not discuss this law, do not discuss the implementation of the labour capacity reform, do not discuss the reform of the system of aids, do not discuss other issues, it would indeed be completely unsustainable. But at the same time, as I said in my previous reply, we are undertaking very major reforms in very different areas of social protection. And at the same time, it will allow us to use the European Union's structural resources so that we can do this to alleviate the situation in the municipalities and go to their aid so that they can restructure, perhaps even improve where necessary. This is not directly my subject, but it is very likely that the current composition of the Riigikogu will also discuss issues related to administrative reform here, which is not simply drawing borders along the map of Estonia. This is, in fact, a matter of substance, which certainly also concerns the income base of local governments and the role of the state, which is the responsibility of the local authorities. So in the light of this debate, if you keep it here, you will remind me that what we are discussing here today is really a minimum.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U227	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U228	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have a question of how to solve a practical problem. Municipalities have solved their problems through AS Hoolekandeteenused. Is there a reverse move now that, in the village of Mighty Sell, there may be a release for asylum seekers: the rooms will be emptyed and the current customers, patients, people with mental disabilities will go back to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U229	Thank you. This law does not concern this subject of debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U230	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U231	I will come back to the previous question. Of course, no one doubts that a minimum level of services needs to be put in place so that they are available in the same way everywhere. But paper, as we know, suffers everything, and if local authorities still do not have the capacity, then, as we know, they do not cooperate very much. Some municipalities do, but there is no reason to hope that one great cooperation will have to be done here, but these services may still not reach people in the required amount. But my question relates to the proposal of the Alliance for Child Welfare. Paragraph 13 refers to the obligation to notify. When we talk about the Child Protection Act, every child in need needs to be reported. Why has the Ministry of Social Affairs not taken into account the proposal of the Child Welfare Association that the municipality should also inform the child in need?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U232	Thank you, good questioner! I come to your introduction: in fact, municipalities are increasingly cooperating, especially in the light of the fact that it is understood that cooperation is needed in their own interests and that the planned administrative reform will certainly lead them to more cooperation. I also want to disprove this myth from this remote control that if it is believed that large municipalities are able to provide social services and do so and small people are not able to do so, it is not true. What kind of services are provided depends, in fact, on the will of the municipality. The municipality is not a separate abstract thing, it is made up of people. It's made up of the council that runs it, it's made up of people who work there. And also those municipalities whose income base is absolutely not comparable to, for example, Tallinn, Tartu or larger cities purely because there are not enough people to work there, are able to provide their people with services many times better than prescribed by this law. This, too, is a sign that we have an annual amount of EUR 1 million of unused money from local governments, which is precisely intended to provide these services. This shows that the situation is very uneven and that this law is intended to harmonise it. As far as child protection is concerned, the previous Riigikogu passed the new Child Protection Act, which is really a well done law, also in terms of informing about child abuse. This law clearly defines what must be done, what is someone's responsibility, and there is also a general rule that all people are obliged to report violence against children. If the Commission sees that this specific section needs to be clarified, I see no problem here, although in fact these obligations are in law terms, in the text of the law and in the Child Protection Act, which will enter into force on 1 January 2016 next year. So very modern legal protection for children really exists in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U233	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U234	Thank you. In the overall context of the employment capacity reform, it should be noted that it has made sense to postpone its start-up for half a year. General regulation has become more precise and better for the individual. However, excessive harmonisation may also have an impact on the contrary. That is why I am asking about the standardisation of social welfare services provided by municipalities or the setting of minimum requirements. If some municipalities currently have a good level of service provision, does the introduction of minimum requirements not lead to a drop in the quality of services in these municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U235	Thank you. That's a very good question. But practice shows that when a service is provided, the need for help is based on a person's needs. That is exactly what the municipality appreciates. After all, local governments do not oversow anyone with these services, they still appreciate what a person needs to do a little better and better in their daily activities. It is simply our aim to establish the foundation from which we must no longer go down, lift this 'last tail' up, and, on the other hand, inform people themselves of their specific rights to receive services. Very often people do not even know that they are entitled to social welfare services and if they do not receive them, it is actually supervised by the state and persons have the right to go to court to defend their rights. When we look at our municipalities, a person who in itself needs help from the social protection system is not only concerned with these services, but also, in other cases, with the social worker of the municipality, for example, but very often they do not want to go somewhere to defend their rights, because everyday life wants to live. Rather, practice still shows that municipalities care about their people. I'm not fighting a war against the local governments here. It is simply the intention of this draft to harmonise services across Estonia, regardless of where the person lives, so that he or she can obtain at least the basic services on this list at a minimum level. That's the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U236	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U237	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'll come back to the shelter service for a moment, § 33. Is there any way you can explain this? If we currently have 13 women's asylums in Estonia, maybe even 14, but there are 13 on the website and in the future it will be a service provided by the local government, how do you see it? Does this mean that these 13 shelters will offer their services to local authorities? In every local government, it really doesn't make sense to do it yourself for security reasons. The current system of women's shelters is also such that a person is taken away from his or her municipality in order to be safer. How do you see this model? Is there any way these 13 shelters are on their own, plus local governments, or are they going to provide the service? And if they're gonna provide a service, I don't think that's the kind of money they're supposed to have.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U238	Thank you. The current 13 women's safety centres are publicly funded, but the service is primarily provided by the third sector, and is still under development. Our ministry is working with these same organisations to ensure the sustainable use of the same service at some very clear quality level. It's a pretty new thing that we've come up with thanks to people who've been fanatically lucky for it. And there has also been enough political will here because public funding has been achieved. Nobody, certainly not a country, is going towards breaking this system. It's just one service the municipality can provide. We have 213 municipalities now, if I'm not mistaken. There is now also a specified legal option that if the municipality wants to provide this service, it can do so. After all, these 13 centres do not cover all municipalities, although as a network they cover the whole of Estonia. Indeed, very often there are cases where a person has to leave his or her municipality across Estonia to ensure his or her anonymity. It must remain, say, not just a network organised by the municipalities, but separate. I hate to call it an anonymous network, but it should be a network that takes very flexible account of the individual's interests. But I'm sure there's some kind of point of contact.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U239	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U240	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, what you are saying is extremely controversial. Once you say that municipalities do not provide the service because they do not care about people, then you say to the next questioner that they do care. Just as controversial is the issue of additional expenditure. After all, it is clear that they will arise because of the increasing working hours, the number of officials and all this, but you say that there will be no additional burdens or additional costs. At the same time, you admit that they still arise, talking about the 31 million that are distributed on a project basis. I read in this explanatory memorandum that local governments are awarded grants according to the possibilities of the state budget. What happens if it runs out of $31 million? It is clear that the financial needs will not disappear and that it is the responsibility of the State to finance the municipalities. So what happens next?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U241	Good questioner, this question, frankly, covered the whole world and, at the same time, nothing. To make assessments of what I say is your right, but I know what I'm saying. I'm just gonna answer the question. By 2020, I hope that, in addition to social protection reforms, we will have a reform of the state, a reform of local governments and the lives of our people across Estonia will be significantly better off in different regions, municipalities and counties. And not only in terms of personal life and work, but also in terms of the lives of people who need social protection. I sincerely hope that these people will be considerably less than today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U242	Maire Aunaste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U243	Good manager! Minister, I would like to inform you of the situation in the country. Ten minutes ago, I spoke to a blind man with diabetes who lives in Ring and who has spent the last 14 months in the hospital dialysis of Maarjamõisa in Tartu. He can't walk himself, he can't see, he's got to take him there by car, and it's been a friend of his for 14 months. And since the same Aavo has already owed his acquaintance some EUR 5 000 for this work, because the local government has paid him only gas money, he now turned to Rõngu Municipality and asked what he would need transport, he needs a driver. And the social worker who's been working there for 20 years told that Aavo on the phone today that you could actually stay there on dialysis, and when he heard that it wasn't a boarding house, we could carry you, but not for more than two months, anyway, not endlessly. What do I say to this man?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U244	Thank you. Tell that man that you hope that this law will be passed and enforced on 1 January 2016. But at the level of the Riigikogu, when discussing these laws, we cannot solve individual issues. This is one example that we can really write something else into this law on the basis of this particular case, but there's definitely another person who has a slightly different problem. The peculiarity of the social sector is that we cannot create and defeat everything in the same way. I don't know much about this, I don't really know how to do things. Surely the municipality should help the person who has, as I understand, a visual impairment or who doesn't see at all. Giving him money for transportation may not really help him to get the necessary help, since this person certainly does not have a driver's license, he cannot be allowed to drive, etc. In this sense, the municipality must look flexibly at what this need is. But yes, this legislative debate here will certainly bring us closer to having fewer of these cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U245	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U246	Thank you, manager. Good minister! It seems to me that you know very well what municipalities are doing, how much money they have left, and why they are not taking advantage of it. As you know, local authorities do not have the same capabilities. What one parish can afford is left to another parish as a dream, but people live in both municipalities. How do you guarantee all the services you foresee for municipalities with minimum standards? After all, the Municipalities Association has not coordinated this draft, which means that they have not agreed to it. Why didn't they agree to this? And if they have not agreed to this, are you not afraid that these questions will go to court again and the state will be required to pay out money, as was the case with the commitment of private schools to local governments, which is why, today, about 14 million euros will be owed to the municipalities? Aren't you going the exact same way? I think the municipality is still an autonomous entity, the state should not dictate everything to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U247	Thank you. In such a philosophical debate, we can say that if local governments receive money from the state for the provision of social welfare services, the state has the right to specify at a minimum what to use this money for. I would like to remind you once again that municipalities have a duty to provide social welfare services. It's their duty today. And the volume is what people need, people have to get help. Our analysis says, and here it is very clear that we are not adding any additional responsibilities to the local governments, but access to justice is everyone's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U248	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U249	Thank you, chairman of the meeting. Minister, thank you very much. Paragraph 5 (5) states that for an alien temporarily staying in Estonia, the necessary social assistance is provided by the local government unit whose administrative territory the person is present at the time of need. Can you tell us how it is intended to help refugees, either with the Refugee Fund or with this money, which is intended for social assistance to our people?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U250	Thank you. If a person lives in Estonia on the basis of a residence permit, he or she will enjoy all the rights he or she is entitled to. These rights also extend to those who have received legal protection from Estonia. If this person needs a specific service, he or she is entitled to receive it from the municipality in which he or she resides.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U251	No further questions for the originator. Jüri Jaanson, member of the Social Affairs Committee, is the rapporteur for the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U252	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the new full text of the Social Welfare Act at three sessions. At our first meeting on 12 October, the Minister for Social Protection presented the content and objectives of the draft Social Welfare Act to us. He explained that the aim was to lay down the rules governing the obligation of both the State and local authorities to provide assistance. Members of the Commission listened to the presentation and took an interest in some aspects of the draft. For example, the question of whether the change would result in a wider circle of sensitive users of personal data was the answer that it would not. There was also an interest in the main reasons why local authorities did not agree to the draft on its coordination round. Our Minister for Social Protection introduced this issue here in advance and basically the position of local government representatives was based on the issue of funding. Allegedly, they're getting more action. At the same time, it is a statutory task of the municipality, which was still mandatory, and the content and organisation of which are currently set at a minimum level. So in this respect, the arguments put forward by the municipalities were not justified. There was also an interest in improving the availability of municipal services when setting minimum requirements. In response, it was said that social services certainly do not become less accessible and that local government services still need to meet certain conditions. At the same time, it was reiterated that the draft does not impose any additional obligations on the municipalities. At the end of the first meeting of the Commission, procedural decisions were also taken: to put the draft Social Welfare Act on the plenary agenda by 28 October inclusive and to propose that the first reading be closed (with 6 votes against and 2 members), it was proposed to set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 11 November (with 5 votes against). It was also decided to appoint Mr Jüri Jaanson, member of the Social Committee as rapporteur (the decision was consensual). The second session, where the draft Social Welfare Act was discussed, was a public hearing, with the participation of representatives of rehabilitation institutions, the association of rural municipalities and cities and the Chairman of the Board of the Maarja Sun Home Foundation. The Minister of Social Protection also introduced a draft law there. The consultation asked whether the municipalities would be obliged to provide assistance to the person if the funds were not available. In response, it was explained that the task of the local government was to provide social services, organise and pay subsidies. This is an obligation under the Constitution, it is also an obligation under § 29 and 291 of the Social Welfare Act currently in force, as well as under the Social Charter. So nothing changes about that. For the third time, the Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft Social Welfare Act at its meeting on 22 October. There the Commission was briefed by representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who also answered the questions asked by the members of the committee. A great controversy arose as to whether the support person could be a person living in the same household. In response, it was clarified that the requirements for the person directly providing the service are set out in § 25 of the draft, according to which the service may not be provided directly by a person who resides permanently or permanently in the same dwelling as the recipient of the service. There was also an interest in whether changes to the Social Welfare Act require all persons in nursing homes to have a maintenance plan. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained that the preparation of the maintenance plan and the completion of the maintenance log are important both for the person receiving the service and for the service provider, and the vast majority of service providers already do so. This was then an overview of the discussions before the first reading of the draft Social Welfare Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U253	Are there any questions for the Commission's rapporteur? Thank you, Jüri Jaanson! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Peeter Ernits Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U254	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who have remained in the Chamber despite the late evening! I'm sorry the minister isn't here. It seems to me that the bride he brought here to present us is a bit or rather flawed: she limps from both legs, twitches her face and gets old. Much of his parents have, figuratively speaking, already died, i.e. left the service. It is a good thing that he exists at least, and it is a good thing that some minimum requirements have been laid down. But it's also the only plus of this bill, but there are very, very many. If you look at the explanatory memorandum, a large part of it, 26 or 28 pages, deals with the opening of the local government chapter and 8 pages of the services provided by the state. It already gives a clear sign of where it's going. In fact, the burden is greater for municipalities, cities and municipalities. And the sign is that those to whom this bill is addressed are the municipalities, cities and municipalities, their representative organisations, the Estonian Association of Cities, the Estonian Association of Rural Governments, the Association of Municipalities of Valgamaa. And I would like to stress that two more times: one was given a basket and the other was sent again, but they were given a basket again. The point here is that these obligations, these services, although the minimum level that is placed on their shoulders is actually unbalanced and this is a wider problem. This is a wider problem for this same administrative reform. If this bride is brought before us one day, I think she might be pretty crippled from both legs and faces, but that's it. The question is how to strike a balance between these obligations and opportunities to meet them. The Minister said here that what these local authorities are talking about, they must, figuratively speaking, be driven over by a roller coaster, they cannot be agreed upon. And to fund, we reach out to the European Social Fund, we write projects, we get money from it, and then I think we can do it. How, when these money ends, is no longer our business. It is also interesting to discuss how to read the explanatory memorandum and, in particular, the comments that have come to light about the fact that the government is clearly chopping out that, according to the Constitution, these obligations have actually been placed on the shoulders of local governments and are also referred to as KOKS, even though it has been a hundred years since the adoption of KOKS, more precisely over 20 years (from 1993 or since he was). At that time, not many of the services that are now being put on the shoulders of the municipalities were even available. And the second point on which the government and the minister are also oppressing here is that these tasks are not mandatory but conditional. That means they'll see for themselves how they are. We are talking about 10 services, of which only three are home services, housing services and the organisation of disabled transports are laid down in general terms in the current Social Welfare Act. So there's seven more that don't essentially have cover. In fact, here we should look seriously at this KOKS and talk about the issue with the municipalities, because otherwise it will go back to confrontation and, as some of my colleagues have pointed out, possible court settlements.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U255	Good Peter Ernits, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U257	Couple or three minutes of extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U258	Thank you. But aside from the comments made by local governments, by the way, you are aware that most of the comments and suggestions presented in several circles have been disregarded, I refer here to the Chancellor of Justice. He says that, for him, the greatest concern about the draft is that the new draft that was put on our table is the rights of people restricted to social services compared to the present rights. The Chancellor of Justice also talks about a number of misunderstandings in the draft text, for example in the area of special care. I quote: '[--] it is difficult to understand the regulation of special care, because it is so complicated that, by making reasonable efforts, it is not possible to get an overview of who is entitled to which service, which restrictions apply to whom, etc. " He deeply doubts whether the person who needs it will understand anything at all. It has been said here that the Alliance for Child Welfare has made its comments, which have not been taken into account, as the Social Work Association has made its comments, for example, on the fact that the government or the drafters believe that one guardian for 20 persons is sufficient. They, as practitioners, say that the number of carers should actually be half as high as two, but this proposal has obviously not been taken into account. It seems to me, and I repeat, that this bride, who was presented to us by the Minister, is somewhat or severely flawed and should actually be rehabilitated before she becomes a thing. But the strength and thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U259	Monika Haukanõmm on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U260	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As I began my question for the Minister in Question Time today, so I will start here. We all remember the moment when the anniversaries came back to the Riigikogu because they were not satisfied with the draft Act on Disability Benefits. Nevertheless, the draft was adopted, and today we are in a situation where we need to amend the adopted draft to at least 60% and also to deal with other laws. I do admit that it is very good that, in the end, a debate that has been going on for years has led us to see a new whole text of the Social Welfare Act before us. When we start by talking about the happy side, before we get to the criticism, it is, of course, a great pleasure that the draft has started to regulate the minimum standards of social services provided by local authorities, because this is very important to people. This is an important step towards guaranteeing people's fundamental rights and freedoms. It is also very pleased that it has been introduced to regulate those services which were not regulated in the past, but which were provided. At the same time, it must now be said that this positive side ends on this point. As Mr Ernits pointed out and I said in Question Time, the Chancellor of Justice has twice submitted letters to the Ministry of Social Affairs on this draft Social Welfare Act and referred to very specific shortcomings. The biggest deficit really is that we are actually restricting the rights of disabled people to services compared to the current regulation. I'll give you an example. The sign language translation service, which according to the current law is mandatory for local governments to provide, does not speak a single word of the bill on our table. The Ministry has made a decision on which services the minimum standards are described and for which they are not. In addition, of course, the disability service is currently regulated and compulsory. The new law has a social transport service, which is a much narrower term. The new law states that a person is entitled to social transport when he goes to work, to school or to use public services. These opportunities are excluded if a disabled person wants to go to the theatre or meet friends in the meantime. In this case social transport can no longer be used. In addition, the Chancellor of Justice has repeatedly pointed out that it is still unclear how the subsistence limit will be set, what the methodology is. It is also a question of child replacement services and the list of prohibited items and substances in institutions and how they must be maintained. The issue of charging is also unclear, and the competence of the county governor to control the decisions of local governments is also a very important issue. So there are actually a lot of topics that are open. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the target groups started to express their opinion even before the draft came to this Riigikogu for the first reading. The Social Committee has today reached the views of a wide range of target groups as well as authorities. It is worrying that the target groups have paid attention to these same things in the past, but this has been viewed with ignorance and has not been taken into account. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U261	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U262	I will give some examples of yesterday's Commission debate. The discussion with the Data Protection Inspectorate was largely a matter of time. The bill in our hands gives the insurer direct access to the health information system. That's... How? [[Reps from the floor.]] Okay, I can see that by now I'm completely confused about these four laws, too, but we're coming back to the Social Welfare Act. What is of great concern is indeed this part of the responsibility of local authorities, such as the second chapter on aid organised by the local government unit. It is very clear here that the local government unit must establish a social welfare scheme. The Ministry reached us with this draft in October, even though it has been dealt with for the last year and a half and it has been on two rounds of coordination. At the same time, the Ministry wants us to enforce it from 1 January. My question is, when will the local authorities be able to develop these repetitions if, in good circumstances, the President announces the law in the last days of this year? Today and in the past, there has been a great deal of debate about whether minimum standards for social services guarantee access to services. Anniversaries ago, I asked ministerial officials very specifically whether this bill would ensure that people would receive their services in every municipality, wherever they lived in Estonia. I was then told very specifically that the purpose of the draft was not to ensure access to services, but to ensure the quality of services. I very much agree that this is important, but the quality of services is such that it may not always guarantee access to services. This may actually lead to the opposite situation, which I seriously hope will not happen. If we set higher standards, then it is now possible for local authorities to say that I cannot meet these standards, they are too high for me, and I cannot provide this service. Are the services more accessible? In fact, I very much believe that standards are needed, but then it is also necessary to say that it is compulsory for local authorities to provide services. The law states that local authorities have a duty to evaluate and act on a person. However, it is not very clear that the service must be provided. So I have to admit, I'm a little disappointed. I looked forward to this law and hoped that it would ensure the availability of services, which was a purpose and which was promised to all people with disabilities a year ago, as well as to the entire Riigikogu. But looking at the current text, it looks like it's really messed up. It has been transformed into something that will not actually satisfy the future, I believe, either the ministry, us or the recipients of the service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U263	Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U264	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, there are no people in this Chamber, and I believe that not all of Estonia would deny the need to improve the quality and availability of social welfare services. This is necessary and it is to be welcomed that the government has come up with such a draft. Unfortunately, I have to say the word 'but' right now. As has been shown here in previous speeches, this law has significantly more disadvantages than the pros. I'm not going to bring them out alone because the law is immensely voluminous, and they've been mentioned here before. What has bothered me very much is the Minister's statement that the availability of services depends on the will of the municipalities to provide services or not. From this we might conclude that our municipalities are extremely malicious and reckless about their people, they don't care. As former Head of Government, I can assure you that this is absolutely not the case. On the contrary, the local governments, their employees, their managers, all of them would be happy to provide the best service they can, but unfortunately, everything is behind this simple thing, the mammon. Municipalities provide the service according to their capacity, their ability, and that depends on a wide range of different things, including their location. We do not have a precise definition, but the responsibilities of the state and the duties of the local government should be laid down. And if the State imposes obligations on the municipality, it must also ensure that they are financed. The Minister claims no additional duties, no extra costs. In the same way, it is true, indeed, that it is the responsibility of the municipalities to deal with it. But meeting these minimum requirements creates additional costs, creates extra time, additional labour needs etc., etc. These are fixed costs which cannot be covered by European Social Fund funds. The fact that the Minister recognises the need for these funds already shows that in fact the government is fully aware that the fixed costs of local governments are increasing. The Supreme Court has already ruled years ago that all the obligations that local governments have must be financially guaranteed. Today we read in this explanatory memorandum that the state will ensure that these commitments are financed according to the state budget. The commitments are imposed, but only finance as much as there is money. It's not normal. In this respect, the State should assume and discharge the responsibilities assigned to it and share precisely what is the task of the State and what is the task of the local government. Yes, the draft has gone to the 'coordination circle', where local governments and other organisations have considered it. But if we look at the proposals we made, it's actually the same thing here... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U265	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U266	... the situation, as has been the case in recent years, with both the state budget and most of the other laws which have been in the process of coordinating the local government associations, the government has not taken these proposals into account. In the extreme case, the word "notified' is added. However, it is municipalities that are the hands of the state and the government, the most direct instrument, the most direct link between the state and people. If the state takes such recklessly this mediating hand, then it is not really possible for people to receive services with the quality and availability they need and deserve. However, since this law has not fulfilled our hopes that we can get social welfare services in place and their funding so that we can ensure that the services are actually available to people, the Estonian Conservative People's Party considers that the government must continue to deal with this law, either by reaching a compromise or by consensus with local governments and various interest groups, precisely so that the law fulfils its purpose. It could come back to the Riigikogu when it is ready. Local authorities must also be given time to act in accordance with this law so that they can adopt all implementing acts. Not like today, as it's been the case lately, that everything is going to be in some sort of campaign. It's not normal. So the Estonian Conservative People's Party proposes to vote this draft out of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U267	Henn Põllaas, please make this proposal in writing, too, for the sake of history. And the text would be that the proposal is to reject the draft at first reading. The Riigikogu will vote, it is a decision of the plenary assembly. Helmen Kütt on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U268	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I had no intention of coming here today to talk about the remote, but listening to speakers and ministers and looking at this very large package of people who have watched it, you know, and in the back row it is still available, that there are 78 or 79 pages of law here, that there is about the same length of explanatory memorandum and that a very large package is in addition to coordination, comments and also ministerial regulations, I thought it would actually be quite good to preserve some things in the interests of history. The Social Welfare Act was adopted on 2 February 1995 and entered into force on 1 April 1995. You could say it's probably a memory game now, but how many times has that law been changed? I don't think you're offering quite right, maybe only a back row social affairs officer knows. I'm not going to bother you any longer, because I haven't gotten a reward, either, but this law has been amended 54 times. In fact, this law is like a Bible for a municipal social worker. Believe me, local governments are guided by this, they read it, they try to meet all these conditions and requirements and take account of each supplement. For example, when a debt advisory service was added to the list, it was also tried to provide it. It was said that this service certainly involves money from the state, but that money did not come, it could be obtained on a project basis. The social workers of the municipality are doing their best and believe that neither the council nor the municipal government are seated by people who do not care about local governments. Absolutely not! But, indeed, administrative capacity is very different. The many emotions and passions discussed here today are, in fact, a step towards regulating something. This is a step towards better quality. It is true that these same lists of services have been on the website of the Ministry of Social Affairs for many years, and many municipalities have also taken an example and template and provided their services from there. And believe, for example, Tallinn and Tartu, but I dare say that my hometown of Viljandi also offers many services at a much higher level than those listed here today. What this law does not guarantee, however, is that if there is now a minimum level of quality across Estonia, these services will not succeed in getting across Estonia, because the local governments' income base is not really what it was before. Municipalities are trying to find better solutions as they need to. The Social Democrats will certainly not vote in favour of rejection. We are voting in favour of this law being able to continue to work. And certainly we will also make a lot of proposals to improve the law, or at least in the interests of this debate. What else I want to fix and note is that Section 7 of the draft law, including § 33, which states the purpose and content of the shelter service, is completely new. The shelter was listed, but there was no such section before. According to paragraph 33 (2) (2) the local government should ensure access to services for persons who have fallen victim to physical, mental or sexual violence in a close relationship and need a safe environment. There are currently 14 such women's shelters and security centres, and there are very large professionals working there. I am pleased that the Ministry of Social Affairs has achieved that, just as it was a year ago, the state budget has provided financial resources to support these security centres and shelters, although there is still a shortage of EUR 200000, or the Norwegian Fund, which will end this year. I very much hope that when we process the budget and with the help of the Ministry, we find the money that psychotherapists and people providing psychological assistance... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U269	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U270	...you could still continue your work. The Social Affairs Committee, for example, visited the Open Women's Centre in Tähtvere. And believe it or not, there is really a great deal of work being done in shelters all over Estonia, and the shelters are doing excellent cooperation on a voluntary basis just because people are seeing that they need this service. In 2014, 1,617 women went to shelters and had 186 children with them. For these children, this service is often essential in order to cope with or cope with a future life. EUR 200000 is quite a lot of money, but the greater cost comes to the social system and the municipalities within the framework of the same bill that we are dealing with here today. And if we list what services the municipality should be able to offer everyone, this amount will be even more than 200,000 in the future, believe me. We also have a helpline, and I will also mention this number 1492. Maybe somebody's gonna read from here who needs to call. And I very much hope that the security home service now regulated and included in the list of municipal services does not mean that the state will gradually reduce funding for women's shelters and security centres and say that it is only a matter of local government and its role. That is why I call on everyone to put forward proposals and improvements. I would also like to acknowledge the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who have certainly worked hard and done a lot of work. It is always said that there is never enough involvement. I myself know that you are trying to listen, make suggestions, take into account, and it still seems that there is little. I don't know if I'm happy to say that this time, too. Maybe not. I would have been much happier if the proposals had gone in, but I know that it is extremely difficult to please everyone. I would like to listen to organisations such as the Social Work Association, the Cities Association, the Association of Rural Municipalities, etc. But once again, as the Minister said at the end, no one will fail because he does not want to do it. There is good cooperation with municipalities, most municipalities do their best. There are statistics in the Ministry which municipalities offer what kind of services. Believe me, the smaller ones can really offer a lot of services that are not offered by the larger ones, perhaps because they are also needed. And of the million others that have not been used at the level of the Estonian state, but which could be used as social services, you know, as a former social worker, I can say that this money has a label on it and cannot be used for anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U271	On behalf of the Group of the Jüri Jaanson Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U272	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to another important role that this acceptable full text of the Social Welfare Act bears. This is, in fact, an important part of Estonia's most important social reform in recent years, the reform of working capacity. We have postponed the work capacity reform for six months as of now; it should start in the middle of next year. Since the beginning of next year, new labour market services and grants, listed in the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, will be in place. In order to get our more than one hundred thousand people with special needs to work, it is very important that we also have this Social Welfare Act. Postponement of the employment capacity reform means an additional cost to the state of half a million euros. If we reject the draft Social Welfare Act and send it to the government for a new debate, then the work capacity reform will probably also have to be postponed, which will entail additional costs for the state. However, let me remind you that we have the first reading of the draft Social Welfare Act, and I therefore consider it irresponsible or a very narrow approach to reject the proposal made by the EKRE Group at the moment. I call on you to support the draft and I believe that the next Social Affairs Committee will be working closely on this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-28_U273	I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. The proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party is to reject the draft at first reading, and we will vote on this proposal. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to reject bill 98 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 8 members of the Riigikogu in favour and 30 against, with 0 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The first reading of the bill 98 has been completed and I will set the deadline of 11 November at 5.15 p.m., i.e. 2015, not in any other year. Closure of the sitting at 5.49 p.m.
