ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the fifth working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, would you like to hand over drafts or inquiries? The government representative, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U2	Mr. Vice-Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds. The Minister of Finance Sven Sester represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U3	Thank you. Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Speaker! On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I will refer an inquiry to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. We want to know what immigration policy has been agreed in the European Union. As we know, the southern borders of the European Union have been hit by the wave of illegal immigration, which is why the issue of the distribution of immigrants between Member States under quotas has been raised. In this regard, we have six questions for the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U5	Thank you. Colleague Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U6	Honourable speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, We have a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the unpersonalised foreign passports of Ukraine. In the course of Ukraine's events, there have been unpersonalised Ukrainian foreign passport plans, along with the corresponding printers, in occupied areas. As a result, there is a direct risk that these external passports will be used illegally to enter Schengen countries. We have questions about what the State Department has done.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U7	My colleague Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 22 members of the Riigikogu, I have an inquiry to report to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas about state bonds. The European Central Bank (ECB) started its work. a from 9 March to the euro area public sector purchase programme in which the euro area national central banks buy bonds for EUR 1.1 trillion until September of the following year. The aim of such a monetary policy is to restore sustainable inflation. Money pumped into national economies should help those countries whose bonds are purchased to restore economic growth. However, as we know, Estonia does not have bonds and Eesti Pank participates in this process as a buyer by channelling millions of euros into the economies of other countries. If there is not a large increase in public investment opportunities in the coming years, we need to find other options. Public bonds could be one of the options. This is what many economic professors have thought. This is also what some politicians in the Reform Party have thought, for example, to recall Siim Kallas' proposal in this regard at the beginning of this century. That is why we have four questions for the Prime Minister about his attitude towards public bonds, whether this project will be considered, whether this could be the case when, during this budget period, the payment of euro payments is running out, and what he thinks that several of his coalition partners have spoken before the elections, that major projects could be financed with the help of bonds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U9	Thank you. My colleague Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U10	Dear Speaker! Colleagues! We all know that the international situation has become increasingly difficult, and we all know that Estonia is essentially a member of the front countries, as our eastern neighbour has been aggressive in recent years. We also remember that during the election campaign, the leading party of the current coalition announced that security issues were a priority for them. In this context, we are submitting an inquiry to the Minister of Defence. We have received information as if the Republic of Estonia was able to obtain Leopard 2A4 tanks from the Swiss Confederation under very favourable conditions in order to increase its armoured capabilities. We want to know the state of the offer, how serious it is, how much it would be possible to increase armoured capabilities and some other related issues. Here are our questions to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U11	Colleagues Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U12	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Social Affairs Committee, I am pleased to transfer the draft decision on the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U13	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two draft laws and four inquiries. The Board of the Riigikogu decides on the adoption of draft laws in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. If the enquiries comply with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward them to the addressee without delay. Ladies and gentlemen, now the announcements. Today, at the end of the plenary session, a meeting of the Youth Support Group will be held in the Chamber, convened by Lauri Luik and Kalle Palling. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check, please. There are 88 people present, 13 missing. Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The agenda is in front of you. I shall vote on the adoption of this week's agenda. Please vote! There are 82 members of the Riigikogu with two abstentions, no one against. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U14	Ladies and gentlemen, Today's session does not intend to respond to any questions. After hitting the hammer, all applicants will be able to enroll in a free microphone. However, we have technical problems. Please be patient, colleagues. It is certainly possible for all those who wish to speak to take the floor. Not only do there are technical problems in airplanes; they can also happen in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Are we all right with the technology now? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to cancel the previous registration into the free microphone and announce a round of loose microphone fingers again. So I would ask everyone who wishes to speak, after the hammer hit, to re-register for an appearance in a free microphone! Colleagues Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Let's hope that watch stops here too and can talk fifty minutes instead of five. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by quoting from a letter signed by Kristen Lahtein, Secretary General of the Association of Estonian Tourists. One small paragraph of this: 'The voters, including workers in the tourism sector, chose according to promises, and the Prime Minister promised repeatedly, emotionally and very confidently that tax exemptions would not be abolished before the elections in the most central and main election debate. In addition, excise duties on fuel were not mentioned; only cost savings, excise duties on tobacco and alcohol and additional economic growth were mentioned. ' Here [in Delphi's article] is even a quote from a debate where Mr Parts asked: " Are you saying that tax exemptions will not be lost? ' And in the garment said, "Absolutely, I say. ' You know, every time I see a government in the last few years, I've had a desire to sing a song I learned in Tiigi dorms in Tartu: 'Our land came under the Diver Sergeant's tourist mask, he's got several cameras and a pistol under his cover. ' Who is this powerful divort over our government and its members? You can look for it. If anyone wanted to destroy the Republic of Estonia, they should destroy its industry and agriculture and make it impossible to achieve civil society. Do these results, which we already enjoy, not speak for ourselves? Some say it's a fairy tale when I name Dvigatel, Baltijets, Red RET, Baltic and Kreenholm Manufakture. No need for industry, it was necessary for socialism! They marched towards Communism, we don't need this route. Destroy these companies, don't need the industry! What is now called industry is essentially eight pieces of wire coming from abroad, one cable being made here and taken out of the country. That is, in most cases, our current industry. Agriculture. Estonia has always been proud of its agriculture. Last summer, actually rather in the autumn, maybe it turned out that two thirds of the milk produced here is no longer needed, because 30% of it went directly to Russia and another 30% went to Russia via Latvia and Lithuania. You don't need it now. Farmers' problems are their personal problems. Last Monday, we were discussing pig rearing here, and we no longer need it. What's it gonna be? Civil society, there's no need for long talk. 2007 absolutely unfounded and immoral behaviour on 27 April. Society divided and hardly managed to heal it in ten or twenty years. Everything they do is still going that way. Does anyone deliberately wish to destroy the Republic of Estonia? I don't know. I don't think the government's gonna admit it, either. But why are they doing all this? At the end of the previous Riigikogu, real and very concrete steps were taken to destroy the oil shale industry. Remember! Today, real and very concrete steps are being taken to destroy the tourism sphere. However, tourists are people who do not wait for some goods to come from Estonia, but they take their wallets and come to Estonia themselves, they bring their money here. This sphere exists, four million foreign tourists every year. And it's gonna get hit! So the song 'Our paintings came from the Diver under the tourist mask'-- it's obsolete. We've raised these diversants ourselves. There is nothing more dangerous to our country than this government led by the Reform Party. Because everything I've talked about has taken place under his leadership in the last seven, eight, or nine years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U16	Thank you. Colleagues Märt Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U17	Honourable manager! Colleagues! In Estonia, it would take something crazy, something very crazy to get people to look at us and come here all over the world. Such a crazy idea was once to make art islands or peninsulas in the Gulf of Paljassaare. This idea is nothing new, for the world is being made into the desert and the sea, wherever it is. Norway makes them out of tires. The genius of this idea was that it was intended to be done in the Gulf of Paljassaare, where the cleaning equipment is only a mile away, so that the price of construction would have been 10 to 20 times cheaper than in the island of Aegana or somewhere else doing all this. The project was made, the investments were found. The Norwegian big businessman Peter van Buuren, who has designed and was the project manager in Palmis Islands in Dubai, found me himself, not I found him, and we started to do this terrible thing, the crazy thing that happened by the fact that the detailed plan for the construction of the art hemispheres of Paljassaare Bay was initiated by the Tallinn City Government's Order No 1818 of 4 November 2009. The strategic environmental assessment of the detailed plan was approved by letter HJR 6-8/13325-3 of 4 May 2010. You see, it's all approved! The project promoter would have been the Paljassaare Culture Laiud Foundation, based on private capital, who did not ask the state for a cent of money to design, conduct research or anything. Then began the success story of the Republic of Estonia. The daily inquiries to the Ministry of the Environment did not produce any results. If the Minister of the Environment was Mr. Tamkivi, he said that if I bring in a detailed plan, an environmental impact assessment and an investor, I could start building tomorrow. I'm three weeks late. The oak was taken down, the Pentus was replaced, Rosimannus. It took six years for a gauntlet. It was said that ships cannot turn around in the Gulf of Paljassaare. It's a foot and a half deep! It was claimed that sardines could not spawn there. There is a foot and a half of water, while the sardines breed six to eight metres deep. It was then claimed that there were too many sediments, not knowing that there were clay beds and there were no sediments. I mean, it's just a total political decision. In other words, the Republic of Estonia refuses to create 6000 well-paid jobs, the Republic of Estonia refuses to build the largest tourist magnet in Europe, with one tivolisaar, one cultural island and one island of amusements or scams. I mean, the Republic of Estonia refuses to take control of gambling. There will be three points, because I can't tell you what to take control of. In other words, the Republic of Estonia refuses a large pipeline through which tax revenue would run directly to the City of Tallinn and the Treasury. He doesn't need it. The Republic of Estonia needs to replay taxes, but no additional jobs are needed, no added value is needed. Market research was carried out by P&P International, a German company. The payback period is three years. If the payback period is three years and the construction period is three years, six years will come together and then there will be a clean and beautiful income for the state and the city of Tallinn. Why isn't that necessary? Can anyone explain this? I can! It's the Central Party's idea. If it had been the idea of the Reform Party, then everything would be fine. Where is it easier to get money? Stupid worker who works honestly and pays taxes to the state. Where else can I get the money? From the teachers, they're working anyway. Where else can I get the money? From the doctors, they'll heal anyway. Where else? From the police, they're watching anyway. From the squirtmen, because, for God's sake, they'll go and erase everything. Of course, you don't have to give me any money. You have to take it out of there. You don't have to earn more, because maybe it'll be all right. If there is no problem, maybe the country will flourish. But nobody needs it. We need a conflict. If there is a conflict, then it is possible to manage easily. What does that mean? This country has no future if the same leadership remains. Thank you, and have a good four years.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U18	Thank you. Colleagues Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U19	Ladies and gentlemen, Politologists and social scientists have long wondered how the will of the people can be consistently overcome. How is it possible that the Reform Party has been in power for the last 18 years and has always chosen partners with whom anything that goes against the wishes of the people and promises made to the people? It is possible to increase excise duties, but it is possible to play with taxes. The people want the President's direct election, that's what we don't count on. According to sociological polls, two thirds of the population want progressive income tax, which we do not take into account. I hoped that the Socialists and the IRL voters would be more fragile and ethical, and now more will be opposed to the Reform Party's policies and implemented the policies that were promised before the elections. I can see that's not going to happen. One leading reform party has claimed that their arrogance is based on a very simple logic: if two parties are in the government next to them, then one is always in the opposition salt. Current data indicate that if the IRL or the Sots start raising their heads, one of the two will be replaced against the Free Party. I hope this is speculation, because I hope that the voter of the Free Party will still be an ethical person and will not allow such manoeuvres to happen. But I want to look at a very important document on the basis of Estonia's security policy. We adopted it unanimously in 2010, there were no votes against, no votes against. The delegates elected from Ida-Virumaa, the MPs elected from Võrumaa, the MPs elected from Läänemaa and Saaremaa all voted in favour. It is now 2015, but this policy is not intended to be implemented. On page 19, it is stated that one of the pillars of security policy is uniform social development, strong local government and very good access to all public services throughout Estonia. Parliament does not care that we ignore the foundations of security policy. Parliament, my friends, is now a rubber stamp because we do not care what we ourselves have approved. But it can be changed if there are statesmen in this Chamber and decisions are taken. IRL, Social Democrats, Free Party, Central Party, EKRE Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U20	Thank you. My colleague Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you know that Ida-Virumaa is an extremely important industrial county in the Estonian context, which needs a separate approach on many issues. This has been well understood by the Ministry of the Interior, which is demonstrated by the fact that police officers working in Ida-Virumaa are paid an additional EUR 150 regional premium, which could, of course, be higher. The social sector deserves the same attention. For years of healthy living, the population of Ida-Virumaa has significantly less than the average in Estonia. In Ida-Virumaa, the living time without restrictions is 48.4 years, while the average in Estonia is 54.1 years. I've heard the argument that there's too much alcohol in our neighborhood. This is not true because the number of people who regularly consume alcohol is lower in the county than on average in Estonia. In 2009-2012 the number of disabled people in Ida-Virumaa increased constantly: in 2009 there were 1257 disabled children and in 2012 there were 1965 disabled children. For adults, these figures were 16217 and 19597, respectively. The community is as strong and healthy as its weakest links. Therefore, we should certainly contribute more to the social sphere, particularly to medicine. From the budget of the Health Insurance Fund for 2015, the labour costs of doctors, nurses and carers, together with social tax, amount to approximately EUR 344 million, including EUR 149 million for doctors, EUR 159 million for nurses and EUR 36 million for carers. No single county, even Ida-Virumaa, has a wage cost planned. My opinion is that an important step to improve the situation could be to impose a regional premium on medical workers in Ida-Virumaa, as this would make more specialists come to work in Ida-Virumaa, which in turn would improve the health of the people of Ida-Virumaa in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U22	Thank you. Colleagues Toomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U23	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Probably one of the most important issues we have to deal with here is the security of the Estonian state. There's been a lot of talk about that here today. One of the most important components of the security of the Estonian state is probably the border guard. The Estonian border guard was restored after Estonia regained independence and its level was quite good; it was even counted among the three best-functioning border guards in Europe. Some time ago, this operational border guard was reorganised, or put together with the police and migration authorities. Since then, the situation has changed dramatically. Many specialists have pointed out that the new system has a number of shortcomings that need to be addressed. An authoritative person such as Tarmo Kõuts, who restored an independent border guard, has found that the border guard should be restored as it was at the beginning of the period of independence. His thoughts have brought along a number of people who have given signatures to support this idea, which may be about three and a half thousand. The Committee on Legal Affairs has heard Tarmo Kõuts. I, too, have come to believe that this is a problem that should be dealt with quite seriously in the near future. Among other things, the drawback of the current system is that we have a reaction to follow-up. There's an event first, and then we're gonna react to it. However, this approach in today's border guards should probably not be allowed. There is also no overview of security threats. However, in the absence of an overview of security threats, it is not possible to respond adequately to them either. If you sum up the situation, you have tried, figuratively speaking, to put together two functions, the police function and the border surveillance function, which are unlikely to be compatible. As was pointed out at the Commission meeting, two things cannot be done at the same time. Can't measure speed or catch criminals while guarding the border. The following important points have now been proposed, which should be borne in mind: First of all, we should have a structure that deals purely with border surveillance and border control, both at the land border and at the sea border. This structure should also be monitored in the area between border crossing points. It is also important that we have a structure with an overview of migration and immigration. Such information would then gather in one place and be better used. It stresses the need to develop technical capabilities for border surveillance and responsiveness so that, if something happens at the border, it can be adequately responded to. Estonia's security starts at the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U24	Thank you. Colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U25	Ladies and gentlemen, I was brought here to talk about the issue of the sustainability of the pension system, which was discussed today in the Committee on Social Affairs. The first point was the age of retirement at the Commission. More specifically, the Government of the Republic provides for an analysis of the impact of the retirement age, a review of whether the established age justifies itself and, if necessary, proposals to change the retirement age. Let me remind you a little bit of history. Before 1994, women retired quite early, at the age of 55, men at the age of 60, then it was harmonised to every 63 years. Men are now retiring at 63 years of age; women will have it in the next year when they too start retiring at 63 years of age. But even before this change has come to a so-called result, a new law was adopted as early as 2010 which postponed the retirement age to 65 years of age. There will be a transitional period starting next year and running until 2026. I am not going to talk now about women and men having very different retirement ages in European countries. In most countries, women retire early, for example in Belgium, Malta, Slovenia, in a large number of countries. However, the question is still that, even though we have a decision taken that until 2026 we will be crossing the age limit of 65, the Commission today discussed how to move this limit further. The Ministry of Finance's official said he was 67 years old, and the Social Ministry's official proposed it. It was a total surprise. They said it was already under discussion in the previous government, well... Before the elections, there was talk of a very high pension increase, depending on the average wage increase. In a situation where we had a pension fund minus EUR 380 million, it is now less than EUR 400 million. But the question is, we're still talking about middle-aged people who are now working. There was also talk of flexible retirement age and transition. It was in the coalition agreement. But the Ministry of Finance is currently offering a very specific automatic transition, and this has been the case for the years to come. The question is that if we look at people's health and healthy lives for years, these figures are much worse in Estonia than in other parts of Europe. Let's see what age they're retiring now. In fact, it is the age of 59.6 years, which is then that the set is another age. People just have so poor health and no jobs. That's it, people live with a small pension for the rest of their lives. If we also include disability and survivors' pensions here, it turns out that on average we retire at the age of 52. The question is what further increase in retirement age we are talking about. Indeed, we have pensioners working, but a very recent study showed that their health is still poor and they are only working because poverty is so great. Eurostat has also recently said that the proportion of pensioners living in poverty in Europe is currently the highest in Latvia, Estonia and Cyprus. I think that, before we even start talking about raising the retirement age, we should still ratify Article 23 on the rights of the elderly of the European Social Charter, which provides for the right to social protection for the elderly and the right to protection in the event of poverty and social exclusion. However, the issue of raising the retirement age is unfortunately on the agenda. I'm talking about it early, so everyone knows about it, and we can stand up to it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-04_U26	There are no more calls in the free microphone, so the hearing is closed. Thank you, colleagues. Closure of the sitting at 15.38 p.m.
