ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good morning. We will begin the session of the third working week of the IXth plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask the members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts and questions. Speaking chair, Rannar Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Monetary Affairs, which gathered this morning, made a very fundamental decision. On the initiative or under the direction of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, 1256 people have approached the Riigikogu. The content of their collective appeal is that the tax changes adopted by the State could be known in advance. As a result, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has discussed this issue quite thoroughly at a number of meetings, and in the end we reached a consensus decision to draw up a draft which would lay down the principle that there should normally be at least six months between the adoption of the amendment to the Tax Act and its entry into force. A distinction has been made between the issues of tax fraud reduction and situations in which a country is experiencing a crisis, whether economic or otherwise. These would be exceptions, but the rule should normally apply that there should be at least six months between the adoption of the law and its entry into force. I believe that this is a pretty important draft that has a positive impact on the business environment and on the entire economic environment at all. This certainly also means individuals who will find it easier to plan a family budget in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U3	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Kalle Jents, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to give a draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure, the Law of Obligations Act, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Enforcement Procedure and the General Part of the Civil Code Act to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. The main content of this draft is that the consumer credit agreement is negligible if the annual percentage rate of charge payable by the consumer exceeds the average of the last six months published by Eesti Pank at the time of the granting of the credit, the percentage of consumption loans granted by credit institutions to private individuals more than three times. If ladies and gentlemen remember, we have just had a very similar draft in the process. Yesterday, we voted on this draft with the same title and the same content, and a surprise-surprisingly, the draft did not receive the 51 votes in favour needed, although all the political groups had declared that this was a very necessary change, which protects the weaker part of our society, the less legally educated and less valuable part of our society. However, unfortunately, the words and actions of some groups do not coincide. There were people sitting in this hall, the voices were there in this hall, but some members of the Riigikogu unfortunately did not press the green button. We believe that it is still possible to adopt this necessary draft during the working period of this Riigikogu and I will give it to the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U5	Good fellows! I have adopted two drafts on behalf of the Bureau, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Bureau will decide on their further procedure. Let's move on to the messages. Good fellows! On Friday of next week, 6 February, a traditional simulation of the Riigikogu will take place in this Chamber. In this context, I would ask you to bring important materials from your desks and drawers. Now, let's do the presence check. 78 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 23.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U6	Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. The first item is the third reading of draft law 757 on the procurement, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? We do not recommend opening negotiations, so we can go to preparing the final vote. Dear colleagues, I will put draft 757 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 76 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft Act 757 on the procurement, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U7	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda. This is the third reading of Bill 731 of the Social Affairs Committee's draft law amending the law on termination of pregnancy and sterilization. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask for a speech chair from Mrs Liisa-Ly Pakosta, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Alliance. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U8	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that this bill has begun in this Chamber to end the current violation of the law. The current practice is that if a minor girl has come to a woman's doctor with a desire to terminate the pregnancy and that doctor cannot, within the very short period of time that she has to use, reach out to both parents of that girl to give her written consent to an abortion, abortion will be done in any way. Since the Constitution defines the right to exercise self-determination, the doctor does not have a greater choice of law, he or she has to violate the law that is currently in force. It is therefore understandable that women's doctors who do not wish to break the law turned to the Chancellor of Justice, referring to the contradiction between the two laws and asking for a new law to be prepared. Unfortunately, we must admit that everyone who is voting in favour of this draft today will continue to violate the same law. The new structure on your desk provides for exactly the same reliance on those sections of the Law of Obligations Act, which provide for the parental disclaimer or departure from the requirement in the case of vital or life-saving operations. For example, under the Law of Obligations Act, a doctor has no reason to contact a parent if there is a need for a vital blood transfusion or any other action in the interest of the child's health.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U9	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall. Please respect the waitress and those who want to listen!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U10	Thank you. Unfortunately, on your desk, there is now a bill based on the same law of debt, but the explanatory memorandum of which, in essence, states that a perfectly healthy, normal pregnancy, without any complications, is such a life-threatening condition that a doctor does not need to seek the consent of a parent to save the life and health of a minor by abortion. Good Riigikogu hall! This is one of the most significant fundamental paradigm changes in the functioning of the parliament of the Republic of Estonia that you can vote for or against today. I would remind you that we are not talking about abortions, which is a medical indication, these abortions are already fully regulated by the current law, and in this case it is really not necessary to seek the consent of anyone. In this case, doctors act in the interests of the health of the woman, whether she is a minor or an adult, and take all necessary steps to ensure the patient's health. We are not talking about whether a minor can have an abortion or whether we have laws in place today and do not need any further interpretation. We're not talking about whether the thing we're talking about is good or bad. We're not talking about any emotional issues either. I'm skipping this section too. We are talking about whether a doctor has the right to perform a medical procedure that has no medical indication without informing the minor's parents. The structure on your desk looks like this. The doctor must first decide whether the minor is mature or not. Of course, it is a question of whether the volume of modern family education that introduces the basic nature and procedure of becoming pregnant from primary school onwards is pregnant and a minor who wishes to discontinue pregnancy is mature. However, the doctor needs to decide this during the examination, and from there he or she will advise the child to consult with his or her parents. If the child does not do so, the doctor will have the option of deciding, under the Law of Obligations Act, that this is a lifesaving procedure, even if abortion has no medical connection to saving life. We really have no reason to lie to parents and assure them that they will be asked for their consent if it is not done. And even if this agreement is requested, it does not have any significance under the draft voted on today. We also have no reason to torture fine women's doctors, who do their job with full commitment and love, and force them to swing at a very uncertain border, trying to decide whether a young person is mature or not, whether a vital procedure is or not a vital procedure. We would have had reason to take into account the experience of the Nordic countries, as the percentage of abortions of minors there is much less than in Estonia. This construction was also proposed by the Fatherland and Res Publica Association. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association have proposed a solution that we will not, under any circumstances, seek the consent of the parent, since this consent in the light of the current constitution does not mean anything anyway. We also proposed that the automatic notification of a minor's pregnancy by a local authority be resolved in another way: so that the minor can make a very decisive contribution to the social worker's concerns. Unfortunately, these proposals were not discussed in substance and there is no objection to our proposal in the draft. It would be rather difficult to contradict Nordic practice. I am very sorry that, if this bill goes through, we must look young girls in the face and tell them that, yes, we could not find a solution that would work, we are still on the wrong track, and we will continue to be dealing with a situation that in reality forces very good doctors to break the law. Once again, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I call on you to vote against this draft and to use the remaining days to make the necessary amendments to the draft. It is true that I congratulate Mr Pikhof for the fact that one of our proposals, namely in-depth advice on the risks associated with the termination of pregnancy, was nevertheless taken into account, but unfortunately the basic design was not taken into account. So, everyone judge by your conscience, taking into account evidence and fact-based and absolutely not emotional circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U11	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will begin the preparation of the final vote on draft 731. Dear colleagues, I will put draft 731 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 45 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 24 against and no abstentions. Draft Act 731 on the amendment of the Law on termination of pregnancy and sterilization initiated by the Social Affairs Committee has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U12	Let us move on to the third item on the agenda. This is the second reading of the Bill 736 on Amendment of the Weapons Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Please ask Marko Pomerantsi, Vice-Chairman of the Legal Committee of the Riigikogu to speak at the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U13	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good President! The draft law amending the Weapons Act and related amendments to other laws has already been before us on one occasion and the deadline for amendments has passed. After that, the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Riigikogu has twice discussed proposals for improving the draft. We did this first on 20 January and, for the second time, at yesterday's Commission meeting, where an amendment was tabled which amended the amendment approved on 20 January. You have a nice explanatory statement which should reflect the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs and all the amendments. Therefore, I believe that there is no need to create a new document for both current and future generations in the form of a recounting of this explanatory memorandum. Anyone who wants to read and understand what has been done in the Riigikogu today and in the future can read the text of the second reading of the bill 736 and the explanatory memorandum accompanying it. No amendments were received from outside organisations, all amendments have been proposed by the Ministry of the Interior and therefore, of course, these are proposals from the Committee on Legal Affairs in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. A consensus has been reached on these. We hope that the draft could be read better and more clearly thanks to the clarifications. However, one of the amendments I am going to make is Amendment 5. This is the proposal that I said was looked at in the same way at the meeting on 20 January and at yesterday's sitting on the other. This concerns situations where it is not possible to grant a permit to acquire a weapon to a natural person. I am not going to name certain Estonian people here who have caused this case, but the question is that if a person has been punished in criminal proceedings, does he have the right to acquire and own a weapon? As an interim version, it has been proposed in the course of the debate that there should be a catalogue of crimes that exclude the acquisition of weapons and that this catalogue would contain crimes related to life or health-related activities or to firearms and ammunition-related crimes or drugs. But, according to the members of the Commission, this list was not complete, it was done too hastily. Thus, according to the decision of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the current regulation of the Arms Act will remain in force, that there will be no exclusionary circumstances in the case of crimes for which a weapons permit could be granted. In order for this to not be the case, there is also the Supreme Court's decision, and the Ministry of the Interior has committed itself to looking into this specific list of crimes for the new Riigikogu, in order to decide what acts really should preclude possession of a weapon and under what circumstances a criminal sanctioned person could still go hunting. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U14	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Just as good a waitress! I'll ask you something that has nothing to do with the actual circumstances of this bill, but with the law of arms. It was not mentioned in the Commission how useful it was to provide for the language in which the examinations necessary to obtain the weapon were to be carried out. It is currently not mandatory that this should only take place in Estonian. Perhaps you should think that it could still only be in the national language. Has the Commission paid attention to this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U16	Tiit Tammsaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U17	Thanks! If you ask me that, it seems to me that I've heard of this debate somewhere, but it didn't start living its life on the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm not asking who I could give the permit to and who I could give it back to. I'm asking you about the state fees that have been increased several times. Why is it that the country wants to tie up gun owners? We know what security situation we have, we are talking about having a new national defence plan that talks about broad-based national defence, and now those men and women who can handle weapons, shoot guns, are going to charge higher state fees on the basis of this law? Did you investigate what this was all about?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U19	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U20	Thanks! The explanation of the proposers is very simple. As in all cases, these State fees should reflect the actual costs associated with the operations concerned. We have hunters represented in the Committee on Legal Affairs, for example, but no written or oral proposals were received from hunters or any other organisation. They just asked why. Therefore, both hunters and non-hunters in the Committee on Legal Affairs voted in favour of changing state fees in the form stated in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You have just mentioned the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs on the conditions for excluding the issue of a weapons permit. Did I get it right that there is no exclusion in the new version? Doesn't it mean illegal use and handling of a weapon? Is it possible to apply for a weapons permit in any case?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U22	Thanks! The text of the law currently in force must be read. I don't have it on hand here, but the letter leaves out what's out there. There will be no change right now. The amendments should come, because this is my personal opinion, which I should not really have to publish here as a representative of the Commission, obviously making a distinction is justified. If we take the person of Valdo Randpere, for example, and rely on the fact that he has gone through some kind of corrupt act, that's a hypothetical example, then maybe he shouldn't take away the possibility of playing tennis. In fact, I believe in a colleague.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U23	Kalev Kallemets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U24	Good President! Dear waitress, My question is, in a way, a follow-up to the question of Tiit Tammsaare. Did the drafters demonstrate in the Commission that the existing fees did not cover the costs of carrying out the operations? Did they provide estimates that these costs have increased or are projected to increase so much that the fees will have to increase significantly?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U25	Thanks! I don't have any cheats on it. But indeed, the logic was that the Police and Border Guard Board has calculated how many of these operations are, how much the resources will be spent, and consequently the rates of these state fees have been determined. Although no predictions have been made about this, I do not know in what circumstances the number of applicants for a weapons permit in the country will increase or decrease. Yes, we were convinced by the arguments put forward by the amendment providers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U26	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U27	Thank you. Good Marko, you gave me a bit of a bad example, but I realized that in the end, you washed me. I want to help you a little bit, and I ask you this: am I right that in the current law, in fact, the granting and application of a weapons permit is prohibited for a person who has committed some kind of offence in the first place - whatsoever. We had a plan to make it lighter, but I did not get to the Committee on Legal Affairs quickly enough to draw up a list of the perpetrators of the crimes that would be prevented from obtaining a weapons permit in the future and for which it would not be prohibited. The current situation is that the existing rules will remain in force and the next composition could draw up a list of the acts that are excluded from obtaining a weapons permit and which are allowed to apply for a weapons permit.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U28	I agree with your approach, except at one point. This is still excluded in the case of crimes, not in the case of misdemeanours, i.e. not in the case of all offences.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-29_U29	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us now begin the examination of the amendments to draft 736. Eighteen amendments have been received and all are from the commission: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18. Amendment 19 does not exist. We have examined all the amendments. Thank you. The position of the commission is that the second reading must be completed. The second reading is closed and the third item is also dealt with. Good fellows, our hearing today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 10.30 a.m.
