ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the 9th working week Tuesday session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, you can deliver drafts and inquiries. Please, colleagues. There's no call. Let's go to the messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber to set up the Estonian-Jordan Parliamentary Group, convened by Eerik-Niles Kross. There will also be start-up meetings in this Chamber today after the plenary session: firstly, the Kurdistan Support Group, the convener Eerik-Niles Kross; secondly, the National Reform Support Group, the Convener Tanel Talve; thirdly, the Border Cooperation Support Group, the Convener Mikhail Stalnukhin; and fourthly, the Estonian Football Support Group, the Convener Dmitri Dmitriyev. Let's be active! Please, let's do the presence check! 84 members of the Riigikogu are present, 17 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U2	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the first reading of the Bill 34 of the Riigikogu's decision by Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, 'Freedom of Member of the Supreme Court, Jüri Ilvest'. The rapporteur is Kalle Laanet, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask one oral question. The political groups involved in the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 21 May 2015, Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, presented to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs a proposal to initiate a draft decision to exempt Jüri Ilves from judicial office from 18 January 2016 at his own request. On 1 June 2015, the Commission discussed a draft decision. The members of the Commission had no disagreement on this issue. It was decided to submit the draft to first reading today, 9 June, with a proposal to put it to the final vote and to appoint me as rapporteur, Kalle Laanet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U4	Any questions for the waitress? Colleagues Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U5	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! It is quite a number of judges who have wanted to resign in the last three or four years, and Parliament has agreed to this. Do you know, or did the committee also have a meeting with the President of the Supreme Court, or did the judges of the Supreme Court leave at their own request in the near future? We know that, in fact, the fact that judges simply retire is behind this desire. Are there any other judges who plan to retire in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U6	Thank you. Sure, people are planning on retiring.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U7	Colleague Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U8	Thank you, manager. Mr President of the Commission. But if the Riigikogu does not find by consensus that it will be dismissed from office as a member of the Supreme Court, what then? Does he have to keep working or what's the solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U9	I don't think you can force anyone to keep working. What would be the relevant legal solution? We'll make it clear, and we'll let you know.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U10	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U11	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Is there a possibility that this desire will somehow be shaped, that it will somehow come about for this reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U12	Thank you. Let us put it this way that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not discuss the concrete reasons for its wish. I also believe that the judges of state are so independent that their desire to leave arises out of their own inner will.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U13	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U14	Thank you. Good performer! I'm sure you know who else will be retiring from the judges of state in the coming years. Who's that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U15	Thank you. Let's hear the next draft decision, then you'll find out.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U16	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U17	Ilvest and I are friends and schoolmates...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U18	I'm sorry! Colleagues, please keep it down!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U19	... and ladies and gentlemen. You didn't ask him a question that bothered me, and I'm sure he was, how did this life go so fast? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U20	Mr Gräzin, thank you for your question. Unfortunately, Mr Ilves did not attend the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which we could not ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U21	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U22	Thank you very much, Mr President. President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! It is certainly notable that Professor Ilves will resign after so long years of service to the Estonian state. Is it also known how Professor and former Judge Ilves will continue to serve the Estonian state after this decision has been taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U23	Thank you. Unfortunately, I don't have that information.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U24	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no more questions for you, but in general, it is not the end of life when you retire. As the commission of directors has proposed that the 34 final votes on the draft decision be carried out, I will vote on the Riigikogu's decision 'Member of the Supreme Court Jüri... ' Sorry, political group negotiations. Jüri Adams as the representative of the Estonian Free Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U25	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Free Party gave me the opportunity to actually express my personal opinion. I start with the fact that the representative of the people, Tamm, raised a very small problem in his question: what is the point of us releasing a person from office in this way? It is quite clear that if we put someone in office, we will give him political confidence, but what is the point in this case of dismissal? However, there is one point: somehow it is necessary to fix the moment when one of the judges of state is vacant. Basically, you could find some other mechanism, but that's the idea. But why did I come here on the remote? Because I had the opportunity to come into contact with Jüri Ilvest from the days when the State Court was established in Estonia, and later under various circumstances, including when I, as Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee, ended up making the current Penal Code. I would like to point out that this is not a normal resignation, and it is not quite common that a person whose contribution to the fact that we have a well-functioning and high-level criminal justice system is obviously not measurable. If it hadn't been for him, this area wouldn't be so prominent. I do not know whether we have any opportunity to express our formal gratitude and appreciation to such a person. Has there been any procedure for this in the meantime? We have a question here for the President of the sitting: do we have the opportunity, for example, to stand up or to applaud Jüri Ilvest or to propose some kind of national recognition? I think Jüri Ilves deserves that this decision is not just a small button push. [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you. Hopefully, it will also go to the Riigikogu's verbatim report that the Riigikogu's plenary recognised Jüri Ilvest's work and activities with applause.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U26	Thanks to George Adams! Indeed, let us count this applause as a tribute and add it to the verbatim. There is no further wish for negotiations. As the lead committee has proposed a final vote on the draft decision 34, we are going to the final vote. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the'release of a member of the Supreme Court, Jüri Ilvest'. Please take a stand and vote. 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, there is no one against, with one abstention. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U27	Let's keep going. The second item is the first reading of the bill 35 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Appointing a Member of Paavo Randma State Risk' submitted by the President of the Supreme Court, Priit Pikamäe. The rapporteur is Kalle Laanet, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. All members of the Riigikogu can ask each of the rapporteurs one oral question, the political groups can participate in the negotiations and the final vote is secret. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U28	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The same draft decision was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 1 June. a and the President of the Supreme Court explained that on 1 May the powers of Supreme Court Ott Järvesaar ended in connection with retirement. The President of the Supreme Court then announced a public competition pursuant to § 53 (2) of the Courts Act, which received three applications. Two of them were presented by circuit judges Paavo Randma and Pavel Goncharov, the third candidate being the lawyer of the European Court of Human Rights, Peeter Roosma. Pursuant to § 55 (4) of the Courts Act, the President of the Supreme Court heard the opinion of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court on 5 May 2015 and the Advisory Board on the Administration of Courts on 8 May 2015 and submits to the Riigikogu the nomination of Paavo Randma, the judge of the Tartu Circuit Court for the appointment of the Supreme Court. What else? The head of the Supreme Court explained why he made such a choice. Paavo Randma's favour is primarily due to his long-standing involvement in the judiciary. He began his career in the judicial system as an adviser to the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court, after which he became a judge of the Tallinn Circuit Court and thereafter became a judge of the Tartu Circuit Court. Paavo Randma defended his doctorate at the Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu in 2011 and, in addition to his main work, he holds seminars on penal law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu. He is a very dignified addition to today's membership of the Supreme Court, the President of the Supreme Court thinks. And what was decided? We proposed to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session on 9 June (consensually), to put the draft to the final vote (consensually), to appoint me as rapporteur (consensus decision) and, in accordance with § 117 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, we propose that the candidate for a member of the Supreme Court, Paavo Randma, be present before the Riigikogu plenary with a presentation of up to five minutes (consensus decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U29	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. As you said, this time three candidates applied for state justice. I ask somewhat more broadly: how popular is the judiciary, including the office of a judge of state, among those who are qualified to apply there? Has there been a discussion with the Chairman of the Supreme Court about the draft, or in any other case, for example, if the Chairman of the Supreme Court has been to present his report to the committee, about how popular this position is and what to do to popularise the work of the judge?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U31	Thank you for your question. With this question, we will return to the last week, Thursday day, when the President of the Supreme Court gave an overview of the activities of the courts. Certainly all of those who were present in this hall or read the verbatim report later realized that the President of the Supreme Court has great concerns about the sustainability of the courts. However, I had an interview with the President of the Supreme Court, where he said that in fact there is also a need for an ad hoc invitation to become a member of the Supreme Court, a candidate for a judge of state. So in reality, let's say, there's no great urge.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U32	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U33	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Three candidates were represented when looking at their backgrounds, practical experience, the experience of the European Court of Human Rights and a very strong academic background. When it was discussed in the court administration council, I thought it was important to support academic experience. After all, it is a court of third instance where the ability to generalise must probably be greater than at lower levels. We will probably have to decide the fate of several other candidates for the Supreme Court. What do you think their background should be?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U34	Thank you for your question. As for the choice made, I understand that your choice was consistent with the choice of the head of the Supreme Court. Secondly, what choices will be in the future depends primarily on people who have decided to apply for membership of the Supreme Court. It is very difficult to predict today exactly what this choice is going to be, and what background these people could be from.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U35	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U36	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. Today's decision to appoint a new member of the Supreme Court follows the decision that one of the previous members of the Supreme Court went out of office of their own accord. Please remember how long this procedure is! When did this place become vacant and how long has this replacement procedure been going on until today's vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U37	Thank you for your question. Once the judge of state has decided to leave, this requires an imminent competition and coordination with the court administration council and the General Assembly. As you know, the President of the Supreme Court also visited all political groups. So this process has been long enough, but to measure exactly whether it's been a month or two or three, it's complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U38	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! Have you had a conversation in the committee or, as you yourself said, separate discussions with the Chairman of the Supreme Court on the subject, which could be about the age at which the members of the Supreme Court would voluntarily resign if they did not have special pension guarantees?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U40	Thank you. The honest answer is that this issue has not been addressed by the President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U41	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I ask if the Riigikogu can do anything to popularise and value the office of judge. Has there also been talk about restoring special pensions, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U43	Thank you for your question. I believe that there are a number of proposals based on the review of the President of the Supreme Court and the speeches made by the representatives of the political groups. I have already said that the Riigikogu and also the government must deal with ensuring that the continuity of courts is maintained so that there are enough judges. Whatever these decisions will be, that is a completely different question, but it certainly needs to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U44	No further questions. Thank you very much. Now I would like to ask the Riigikogu for a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court, Paavo Randma! Five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U45	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, thank you first for the opportunity to make a brief presentation before answering questions. In the interests of legal regularity, I immediately certify that I will stick to the application submitted. Good people's representatives! Meeting s. a On 13 and 14 May with Parliament's political groups, I hope that when I answered your questions, I was able to provide adequate answers concerning my professional activities as well as my views on more specific legal issues. In view of the short time allocated to me here too, I will mention only a few keywords of a more general nature which I consider necessary to highlight separately. Criminal law in particular is an area which, by its very nature, can be the most acutely affected by the fundamental freedoms and rights of a person, but this issue cannot be dealt with solely from the perspective of the accused. It is important to bear in mind that criminal law protects the interests of the victim at the same time, and the charges are brought and the verdict is finally handed down on behalf of the Republic of Estonia. The legal system as a whole must ensure that, in addition to protecting the interests of the accused, the interests of the victim and, more generally, the legal order as a whole, are fairly and fully represented in the criminal proceedings. Balancing these often conflicting interests is a prerequisite for restoring and achieving a peace of law. I believe that a somewhat more important role than before should be given to the Court of Justice in the performance of this obligation. At this point in time, I note that paradoxically, at the level of the law, there is no definition at all of the purpose of the court proceedings and of the role of the court in it. The law defines in general that a judgment must be lawful and justified and must be reached as soon as possible. But that's all you can find about it in the law. The Court therefore has wide scope for interpretation on this issue. As a second point, I refer to the need for the judicial system to be somewhat more open to explaining the content of the case-law. The press has also recently dealt with a number of cases that have offended the public's sense of justice for one reason or another. I think that if the court that issued the decision had also been more active in explaining the content of the decision in this process, there would have been a number of uncertainties, perhaps not. This issue is at the same time linked to the question of the comprehensibility of the case-law. Often, criticism is that the court settlement is long and thorough, but it is basically incomprehensible to the so-called "talugegeja." I am of the opinion that the legal language used in the case-law must not be completely detached from the ordinary language. It is also possible, as a rule, to formulate a complex legal issue in such a way that it is understandable to the average reader without the assistance of a person with legal qualifications. In other words, one lawyer does not always have to write the judgment to another; it must be accompanied by the knowledge that it must also be understood by the primary addressees of the decision in the form of the accused person and the victim, who would thus be able to exercise their procedural rights, such as appeal, more easily and sustainably if they so wished. This is a simple but, in my opinion, an extremely important task. If this were to be achieved, the public would better understand the judgment if it were to be dealt with publicly. Thirdly, I would like to emphasise the need for stability in the area of justice. The Penal Code has been in force since 2002, the Code of Criminal Procedure since 2004. From the point of view of the legal system, this is a very short time, especially in view of the repeated and also massive changes that have been made to these laws over and over again. I repeat the position that I also raised on several occasions when I met the political groups in Parliament: stability for the legal system is a value in itself, reliable and time-consuming case law can be created and directed only on the basis of a stable legal framework. Honourable Riigikogu! With these comments of a more general nature, I am currently restricting myself. When I met the political groups in Parliament and answered the questions, I repeatedly admitted that, as a result of the youth of our legal order, the volume of matter that our judicial practitioners still have to solve and write is extremely large. I dare say I'm ready for this challenge. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U46	Thank you. You have questions too. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U47	Thank you, manager. Honourable candidate for a judge of state! I'm asking about out-of-court proceedings. What do you think if one of the parties to the proceedings is a state or a state-owned company, such as the Tax Administration, who should then decide? Could the tax office agree that a million here or there, or should the court make that decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U48	An agreement shall be concluded with the accused or suspected as a representative of the State by the Prosecutor's Office in accordance with the law in force. He represents the state charge. And that agreement will be confirmed by the court. I do not consider it reasonable or possible to fix an agreement in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U49	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Member of the Supreme Court! My question is somewhat broader; it does not just concern the subject of the criminal college. § 149 of the Constitution gives the Supreme Court two roles in principle. One is that he examines the decisions of the courts in a case of cassation, and the other is that he is also a constitutional review court. Quite a lot of debate has been held in the Estonian public about whether the system created in its own time is justified in the sense that there is one court that plays two such fundamental roles. What is your position on the creation of a separate constitutional review court?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U51	Thank you. That is an interesting question that has come up on the agenda over and over again. I think this is a resource-efficient solution that we currently have. Let us be honest, the creation of a separate constitutional court would require a relatively large amount of resources, including human capital. In fact, I think that the Supreme Court has carried this double role quite successfully and that it is rather good to continue the system in this form. I also repeat what has already been said that stability is a value in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U52	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Paavo Randma! All I've heard about you is that you're a very straight back and a judge with your opinion. But here's my question for you. You have read out a lot of topics that should be dealt with quickly. What is the first and most important thing that you are paying attention to?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U54	Thank you for pointing out straight. I'm gonna keep trying to do my job like this. Since the time for my report was barely five minutes, I had to take down the sentence that it was not a ranking table in order of importance, but a choice of much that we had to solve. So I wouldn't be happy to highlight the order of importance. The second point is that the Court of Cassation can, however, act within the framework of the questions put to it by the parties to the proceedings. So we have to resolve the issues that will be handed to the court.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U55	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U56	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Paavo Randma! On the one hand, of course, judgments should somehow take into account what people think, what their sense of justice says. On the other hand, the judge should have enough clarity and independence to make an independent decision. To what extent would you take into account the views formed in the public information space when making your decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U57	Thank you. The answer to this question is actually very simple and concrete: it is a luxury that I cannot afford as a judge. I have not promised it so far, nor will I allow it in the future. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U58	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U59	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Waitress! The question suddenly goes out of the question, but have you thought about making such an amendment to the Penal Code that, in the context of general drunkenness, there is even a small amount of drinking, whether it is 0.1 or 0.2 per million, criminally punishable and ends with the removal of driving rights on the ground with the confiscation of the car? Do you think that such a proposal could come before the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U60	Thank you. The Riigikogu is competent to create laws. As a judge, I may have some ideas about this, but with such a proposal, I cannot even come before you. As far as the framework for sanctions in this area is concerned, it is already quite spacious for us. Confiscation of the offence instrument is a measure which may have to be implemented more resolutely in such cases. Sanctions for wrongdoing are also relatively adequate. If the amount of alcohol is less than 0.2 per million, I think it is called residual symptoms in the case law. So we actually have a zero tolerance in the current law. Whether to tighten up these sanctions is a point. Here the criterion of truth is practice. One point to be borne in mind is that penalties do not prevent offences, they respond to what has already happened. So I wouldn't expect such a preventive, predictable effect from the law, but the right response to an offence is within the competence of the legislator.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U61	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U62	Thank you. Dear Paavo Randma! The head of the Supreme Court spoke last week in this hall about the difficulty of finding judges in Ida-Viru County. And I have a question for you: can you comment on why it is so difficult to find people who work in the courts of Ida-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U63	This question is a little broader. The President of the Supreme Court also indicated that the application procedure may have been somewhat out of the way. It is particularly difficult to become a judge of first instance. I think the chairman also referred to the legislative initiative to expand this opportunity, to make it easier to apply. I think there are some worthy candidates, but the system for preparing a judge is a little bit out of the way and clumsy. That's one side of it. At a second point, a measure such as regional remuneration has also been proposed. This is one way to alleviate this problem a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U64	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Randma! The Constitutional Supervision Law gives people the right to apply to the Supreme Court if they find that a law has violated their interests or rights. Do you think it could be extended to give citizens the right to apply to the Supreme Court also in the public interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U66	This is again a matter for the legislator. It is true that the current window created by the Constitutional Supervision Law is relatively narrow from this point of view. One idea that has remained is that it could be extended by giving this right to a parliamentary minority. Perhaps in this way open a window for turning to the Supreme Court for interest groups and even voters who use contacts in the Riigikogu. Such a full right to submit individual complaints to the Supreme Court
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U67	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in a few minutes you will most likely become a new member of the Supreme Court. The reputation and future of the Supreme Court are certainly very important to you, just as I hope for the entire hall. We have a series of Supreme Court decisions that have been sent to the Riigikogu for execution, for example, to review one or another legislative act or the whole package. Unfortunately, a whole series of these problems have so far been virtually unworkable. What is your proposal to the Riigikogu, how should the Supreme Court react to decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U69	Thank you. "Accordingly" is the word. The Supreme Court carries out its work and interprets the law in accordance with the obligation imposed on it, according to its best abilities, skills and discretion. So "respectably" would be the word.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U70	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to start negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed to put the draft to the final 35 votes. According to § 79 (2) (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, voting at the Riigikogu session is secret when a member of the Supreme Court is appointed. Let's go to the final vote. I will put to the vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Voting Paavo Randma as a Member of the Supreme Court'. Please take a stand and vote. Results of the vote 78 parliamentarians voted in favour, no one opposed, and 2 abstentions. The decision has been taken. [[Let's hear it.]] We wish fresh member of the Supreme Court strength and good cooperation with the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U71	We will move on to the third item: First reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Revocation of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre" submitted by the Committee on the Environment. The rapporteur is Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Environment Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U72	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Due to the end of the term of office of the XII Riigikogu and pursuant to § 56 (1) of the Environmental Charges Act, you have before you the draft decision 'Revocation of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre'. The content of the draft is to recall Aivar Kokk, Kalev Kotkas, Tõnis Kõiv and Rein Randver from the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre of the Foundation and also to appoint the following members of the Supervisory Board: Aivar Kokk, Valeri Korb, Kalvi Tõiv and Mati Raidma. The Committee on the Environment discussed the draft at its meeting on 1 June this year and the following procedural decisions were adopted: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 9 June and put to the final vote on the draft. Both decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U73	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U74	Thank you, Mr President. A representative of the good Commission. You certainly had a very thorough debate on the candidates. But maybe you could tell the grand hall of the Riigikogu and the other observers of the session what does the Environmental Investment Centre Board do? Perhaps the only thing we know at parish-city level is some kind of higher investment, project financing. But what is the competence of this council, and what does it do every day?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U75	Thank you. First of all, I can mention that the four members of the Riigikogu who have been appointed by the Riigikogu are indeed members of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre of the Foundation. And, as you said, it is well known to a large number of local government leaders that this is a project committee. In essence, they will literally run the Environmental Investment Centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U76	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U77	Thank you. I assume that this decision, by which the four members of the Riigikogu once appointed from the KIC Council and to appoint four people to replace them, will not be taken over by the entire KIC Council. After all, there are also members whose presence in the Council is not affected by today's decision. Who are the remaining members of the Council who will remain in office?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U78	Thank you. It is true that this bill concerns only those members of the council who are legally appointed by the Riigikogu. I believe that with those members who continue their work in the Council, we all have access to the website.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U79	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U80	Thank you, manager. Mr President of the Commission. A representative of the opposition is also on the list as a proof of good faith. It's not normal. Does this come from a law or has it suddenly arisen good practice that opposition representatives are also included in the Council? I hope that there will be representatives of the opposition in other councils as well. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U81	Thank you, my good colleague. I'm glad you noticed that. Indeed, Valeri Korb is a member of the Riigikogu, who is a representative of the opposition, and we can say that this is good practice. We hope that this good practice will spread from here to the walls of the Riigikogu to all other areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U82	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U83	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The thing is, the media have been up to the next thing. RMK's representative has said that all the costs of cleaning the border area from the forest have been covered by the sale of this timber. We've heard recently that you're applying for money to clean up the border, take down the trees. How do you comment on this contradiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U84	Thank you. I dare say, dear colleague, that you have confused the two items on the agenda. The following point concerns RMK: it is currently appointing the members of the Environmental Investment Centre's Supervisory Board. We come to RMK on the next point.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U85	Thank you. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When I was head of the local government, we had very close cooperation with KIK. And I'm saying that cooperation was great, too. In recent years, however, KIK itself started providing loans to finance these projects instead of banks. Unfortunately, in the case of KIK, the interest rate on loans to local governments is considerably higher than that on banks, while we had to borrow from KIK. Can the Council change the state of affairs so that these credit conditions are equal or even more favourable to those of the banks?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U87	Thank you. If we look at what the Riigikogu hopefully appoints today as members of the Supervisory Board of the Foundation Environmental Investment Centre, namely Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee; Valeri Korb, Vice-Chairman of the Centre Party Group; Kalvi, Chairman of the Group of the Hard Social Democratic Party; and Mati Raidma, the recent Minister of the Environment, I believe these men can change that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U88	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on the Environment! Here's my question. Tõnis Kõiv, who was known for demanding the opening of the sanitary protection zone of Lake Ülemiste, is recalled from the KIK Council so that everyone who wishes can soak their toes in the drinking water of the residents of Tallinn. Did he say anything about it in the KIC Council? Now he's been given up. Is there another similar figure on the horizon who might appear with such disgusting proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U90	Thank you, Mr Vasilyev. I must, of course, apologise and say that since I myself was not a member of the Board of the Centre, I cannot comment on what Tõnis Kõiv said there. However, I can assure you that I agree with you: Lake Ülemiste is not suitable for bathing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U91	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Waitress! I don't know, maybe I missed it, but you did count those members who are presented by the Riigikogu, but there are, as we know, more members in the council. There are also representatives of entrepreneurs and representatives of several organisations. Wouldn't you like to introduce these other members to who they are and where they are? And for what reasons do you propose these people as a candidate for a council member?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U93	Thank you. I repeat that this bill concerns only members of the Riigikogu Aivar Kokka, Valeri Korb, Kalvi Tõvi and Mati Raidmat. The Commission did not discuss with those members who have been appointed by the Ministry by a ministerial decree to the Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U94	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U95	I will continue on the same subject that has not been completed. I'm just curious whether the other members are assigned to this council or whether they're political figures.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U96	Thank you. I think they're non-political figures.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U97	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. Draft decision 44 proposes that we appoint four members of the Riigikogu to the KIC Board. There are six political groups in Parliament. Did the other political groups not represented in the Council also propose their candidate, or did the Committee on the Environment have to find the four people only among those who were set up?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U99	Thank you, my good colleague. There was an answer to your question. By the time the members of the Riigikogu were requested from the political groups, exactly four names had been received by the Environment Committee, and these four names were also brought to the large hall by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U100	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It's like you don't know who the rest of the council is. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U102	Thank you. I think there might be all kinds of impressions in this hall. The fact is that this issue was not discussed by the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U103	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to start negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed that the draft decision be put to the final vote. Let's go to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 72 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 1 against and 2 abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U104	The fourth item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled " Appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre' submitted by the Committee on the Environment. The rapporteur is Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Environment Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you a draft decision on the appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre. In connection with the end of the term of office of the members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre appointed by the XII Riigikogu and pursuant to § 49 (3) (1) of the Forest Act, the content of the draft decision is to appoint the following members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre as members of the Riigikogu: Jaanus Marrand and Andres Metsoja. This issue was discussed by the Committee on the Environment at its meeting on 1 June and three procedural decisions were taken, all by consensus. First of all, to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 9 June 2015, i.e. today, to appoint the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment as rapporteur and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote. Thank you and please support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U106	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! In addition to this very dignified task of selecting these two representatives of the Riigikogu, you have also discussed the substantive work of RMK in depth, what the Council will do. That's why I have a question. During the election period, people certainly approached you as a representative of the people with questions about one or another of RMK's activities. Have you reported these concerns to future members of the Supervisory Board of RMK and, if so, what were the answers sent to you, for example, about how much forest we have to take down, at what price it will be sold, whether Estonia will convert this timber or sell it as a raw material? These questions sounded quite often during the elections. Did you discuss these issues in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U108	Thank you. First of all, when we look at the role of the Council, it is, of course, designed to represent the will of the owners and to supervise the executive directors. As far as electoral issues are concerned, of course, forest issues are also very important for the lame, and I will certainly pass on all their proposals and thoughts to future members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U109	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U110	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Mr President of the Commission. According to the Forest Act, Parliament has the right to appoint two representatives to the RMK Council. Parliament is known to be made up of two sides: the coalition and the opposition. The current coalition includes three parliamentary groups and the opposition also includes three parliamentary groups. Unfortunately, it has happened that the Committee on the Environment has decided to send two representatives of the coalition from Parliament to the Council of RMK. For what reasons did the Committee on the Environment not consider it necessary to appoint at least one representative on the opposition side?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U111	Thank you. Indeed, the political groups nominated Jaanus Marrand, Andres Metsoja and Külliki Kübarsese as members of the Supervisory Board. A vote took place with eight members of the Commission. During the vote, 5 votes were given to Jaanus Marrand, 8 votes were given to Andres Metsoja, and 3 votes were given to Küllik's Hatter. I have no reason to doubt the outcome of the votes of the members of the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U112	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I, too, am asking about the substance of the work. It is essential for the Council to monitor how the Governing Board and its sub-units operate. The private forests have been mainly cleared up, and the forest no longer grows in these lands. When I went on mushrooms in several parts of the state forest in the autumn, I saw that the bush was very dense and the grass was almost to the chest. But the rangers have lost everything. Do you ever see work results in that direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U114	Thank you. In forest policy, Estonia has been strictly guided by the principle that we will not cut more forest than it will grow on. But I repeat: we will pass on all the questions and thoughts that have arisen to the members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre, who will, hopefully, receive their mandate immediately. This chest grass and the mushroom forest that grew into the bush should matter to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U115	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U116	Thank you, manager. Good Commission waitress! During the debate on the previous point, you said that the representative of the opposition should be in any such council in the future. Suddenly, though, the position disappeared. I welcome the fact that the vote in the Commission was democratic, but in essence it can be said that no matter how the votes are divided, the choice is political. Unfortunately, you had to give up your words quickly. But there is one thing that pleases me, and it is that there is no more representative of the Reform Party in this Council. The management is in this background anyway, and at least they're trying to control them somehow.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U117	Thank you. First of all, I can be sure, I could even say that it was indeed a democratic and honest election, to be sure of death. On the contrary, as far as eating my words is concerned, I am still of the opinion that such good practice, so that there are also opposition members in the Council, is reasonable. At the same time, you must admit that, whether you are chairman of a committee or not, you still have one vote. This is not a ball of nations where the captain has two lives. Everyone has one vote, and according to the outcome of the vote I have read, Andres Metsoja and Jaanus Marrand were elected.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U118	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U119	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Once the Estonian kroon was secured, i.e. the Estonian forest, the property, was secured by liquidity. Is this forest just as much as it was at the time of the establishment of the Estonian kroon, or is the euro not needed for any guarantees, and the forest is quite different, as the previous speaker said here: the grass is umbilical and you have to crawl to get mushrooms?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U120	Thank you. For information to good colleagues, I assure you that Estonia is a European country which is mostly forested. 53% of Estonia's territory is forest.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U121	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U122	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The State Forest Management Centre has been a profitable company and this profitable company has made quite a significant contribution to the implementation of the state budget. Please tell me whether the representatives of the coalition, whom we are now offering as a member of the Council, have been given instructions as to how much the contribution it will make to the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U123	Thank you. Good questioner, I must apologise, but the Committee on the Environment did not discuss the implementation of the revenue side of the state budget within this item. But I believe that these two candidates are based on the interests of the owners, the residents of the Estonian state, in their work and activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U124	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The National Audit Office has repeatedly been interested in the work of the State Forest Management Centre. During the previous parliamentary term, two reports were submitted in four years, relating to the main problem, i.e. the use of different methods of accounting for forest resources. I recall that it was also said that this had been a problem for many years. Of course, it is possible that you only discussed the candidates and did not set any goals for them, but perhaps this also came up with what they would basically have to deal with in the Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U126	Thank you. Indeed, the Committee on the Environment did not address forest accounting issues within the framework of this item on the agenda. But I know that both the Ministry and the Committee on the Environment have also discussed the issue you raised during its membership, and hopefully this will be discussed again during the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U127	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U128	Thank you, good manager. Good Commission waitress! I am very pleased that you basically consider it a good practice that the Riigikogu is represented in the Council by representatives of both the opposition and the coalition. I have a question: if there was a vote, did you personally have in mind the principle of good practice and also voted in favour of Küllik's hatter as a candidate for opposition?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U129	Thank you. I will be honest with you that if there is still a former Minister for Agriculture in the choice, then the former Minister for Agriculture must be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U130	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on the Environment! Two of the members exchanged are politicians and well-known people. But who are the rest of them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U132	Thank you. Among the rest are both known and unknown people, whether they are named Mati Polli, Rain Vipper, Andres Talijärv, Kalev Järvell, Veiko Tali and Jaanus Tamkivi.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U133	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? No, it's not. Priit Toobal, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U134	Thank you. It's not a procedural question. According to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, there is also the possibility of speaking on the spot during negotiations, not having to come to the remote control. I'm taking advantage of this opportunity. The Centre Party Group considers it a good practice that Parliament has the right to appoint its representatives to the Councils. As I said when I asked my question, Parliament is, as we know, largely composed of two parts: the coalition and the opposition. Since, according to the Forest Act, Parliament has the right to appoint two people to the RMK Council, we believe that, according to good practice, one should be a representative of the coalition and the other should be a representative of the opposition. Unfortunately, the Committee on the Environment does not think so and the proposed draft provides that Parliament should only appoint coalition ambassadors to the RMK Council. For this reason, the Centre Party Group cannot support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U135	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. The commission has proposed that the draft decision be put to the final vote of 45 votes. I will put to the vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the nomination of the members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre 45. Please take a stand and vote. 47 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 34 against and no abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U136	The fifth item is the first reading of the draft decision 'Announcement of the members of the Board of the Estonian Development Fund' submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The rapporteur is Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U137	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the Estonian Development Fund Act, nine members belong to the Board of the Development Fund and five of these nine members are appointed by the Riigikogu on the proposal of the Economic Commission. Two of these five members of the Supervisory Board are members of the Riigikogu and three are representatives of the public and business. Due to the end of the term of office of the XII Riigikogu, the powers of previous members of the Riigikogu in the Estonian Development Fund Council have been formally terminated, which is why the Committee on Economic Affairs addressed all the political groups of the Riigikogu with a proposal to submit its candidates as members of the Riigikogu to the Council of the Development Fund. The Riigikogu submitted its proposal six out of six political groups. The mandate of two members of the public and business representatives expired on 6 June. a (the mandate of Ville Yehe, the third representative of the general public and business, is still valid and is also the chairman of the Board of the Development Fund). The Committee on Economic Affairs therefore addressed EveA by letter, as well as the Chamber of Service Economy, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Estonian Employers' Confederation. In total, three members of the Board of the Estonian Development Fund were nominated as candidates for the general public and entrepreneurship. These candidates were presented by EVEA, the Chamber of Service Economy and also by the Association of Estonian Hospitals on their own initiative. The Economic Commission discussed the nominations on 1 June when the selection of candidates was also carried out. Maris Lauri, presented by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, and Jevgeni Ossinovski, who was nominated by the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party, were elected from among the members of the Riigikogu in a secret vote. Once again, the vote was secret and, as a result of the secret vote, Maris Lauri and Jevgeni Ossinovski received the most votes. They were then included in the draft decision as members of the Riigikogu of the Development Fund. A secret vote was also held to appoint representatives of the public and business, and as a result Sven Papp, who had been nominated by the Service Economy Chamber, and Mart Einasto, who had been submitted by the Estonian Hospitals Association, was elected. At its meeting on 2 June, the Economic Commission took the following procedural decisions: firstly, to appoint Toomas Kivimägi as rapporteur for the draft decision, secondly, to propose that the draft decision be put on the agenda of the plenary assembly for today, 9 June, and thirdly, to put it to the final vote. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U138	Thank you, dear waitress. There are a number of questions for you. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! Certainly because we are deciding on the members of the Council of the Development Fund in this Chamber today, you have also had a desire to familiarise yourself with the problems of yesterday, today and the future of the Development Fund. The Development Fund was created several years ago in anticipation and hope that it would become the engine for the future of Estonia Nokia or new Estonia, like Sitra. The aim was to start issuing venture capital and developing entrepreneurship, on the one hand, and to find a major solution for Estonia's future. Are you convinced that the Development Fund has overcome its problems and has a clear vision for the future, or are you rather pessimistic and think that the Development Fund needs to be thoroughly reformed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U140	Thank you. This issue is not directly related to this draft Decision, but indeed, the Committee on Economic Affairs has repeatedly discussed the activities of the Development Fund. We have met with the management of the Development Fund, including Pirko Konsa and Ville Jehe, and I dare say that the views on the effectiveness and perspective of the Development Fund's activities are actually wall-to-wall. As a result, the Committee on Economic Affairs has asked Commissioner Lauri to deepen the activities of the Development Fund to date, to assess its performance and its current place and perspective, bearing in mind the objectives and tasks assigned to it by law. At the same time, the press has also gone through that we are somewhat cautious about the relatively critical views of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Confederation of Employers on the activities of the Development Fund. Indeed, their opinion is that the Development Fund should be reorganized. But I think today we can't do anything in a hurry. Looking back in time, we also see some scandals there, but at the same time, the fund has made quite a lot of contributions in its time. Let us take the same SmartCap, which has ultimately been very successful. Yes, now the Board of Directors of the Development Fund and the Council have taken the view that they should no longer pursue such investment activities at this stage of business. Rather, they believe that this 'investment package' should be privatised. I think the development fund needs a so-called restaurant. For us, however, the very critical attitude of business representative organisations is a very important sign, as entrepreneurship is certainly one of the areas that the fund should serve. Of course, if we look from a labour point of view, then the biggest area of the development fund is monitoring and the green economy, with the highest number of employees in terms of composition. However, this may not necessarily directly relate to entrepreneurship. In any case, we intend to discuss the activities and the future of the Development Fund in essence in September-October and then shape the final position. In any case, new nuances are needed. We also met yesterday with Pirko Konsa and heard that they were organising the Development Forum No 2 to set the following major goals for Estonia. So they themselves are very active and willing, but of course, since the Development Fund is still directly related to the Riigikogu, it certainly expects us to have new emphasis, accents. I think that the new members of the Council will be able to make their contribution, and we are also waiting for their feedback.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U141	Mr Randpere, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U142	Yes, I have a procedural question about the fact that we are actually discussing the recall of the members of the Board of the Development Fund and the appointment of new members. I find it a little inappropriate to ask questions about the past, present and future of the Estonian Development Fund. Not that I'm not interested in it, but that's just not the subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U143	Thank you. Priit Toobal, also a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U144	Thank you, Mr President. As far as I know, Valdo Randpere is among the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. How will Valdo Randpere know what kind of discussion took place in the Committee on Economic Affairs in the process of dealing with this draft? Perhaps there was a discussion, and I very much hope that the activities of the Estonian Development Fund were also discussed more widely, not just the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board. So if the chairman of the committee answers the questions in very substance and, in view of the debate that took place in the committee, that is only commendable. Valdo Randpere's comment on this is, in my view, completely irrelevant.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U145	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a suggestion: we are using time sustainably and moving on to the agenda. Mr. Randpere, once again a procedural question, I understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U146	Can't be missed. In particular, Mr Kivimägi said in his introductory sentence that although this issue was not discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I will reply. That's what I came to my conclusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U147	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The rapporteur certainly has a certain freedom to answer, so let's keep it for him. Let's move on to the agenda. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Undoubtedly, the present and future issues of the Development Fund were also discussed with the candidates selected by the Commission. Consequently, I wonder whether this choice leads to the conclusion that the Coalition has granted the Development Fund some grace period for its so-called restoration. To recall the coalition talks, perhaps the attitude was even more critical when it came out of your speech. And please also tell us how this bad practice has helped to achieve the objectives of the Development Fund, that already several coalitions are appointed to the Council of the Development Fund only from among coalition parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U149	Thank you, Mr. Asker! I would also like to make it clear once again on Valdo Randpere's question that the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed essentially the activities of the Development Fund, without linking it to the appointment of members of the Council. This has been a separate substantive issue on the agenda. But my point of view was that this has nothing to do with today's draft decision. As far as Mr Herkel's question is concerned, I can respond in this way, because the vote in the Committee on Economic Affairs was secret, I have no reason to try to guess who voted. I don't know, maybe the opposition ambassadors supported the candidacy of Jevgeni Ossinovski or Maris Lauri. So in that sense, we had a slightly different procedure. I very much hope that some of the voices of the opposition ambassador were among those six votes. However, I cannot comment on who voted as the vote was secret.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U150	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U151	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I must admit that I, too, am among those who are critical of the activities of the Development Fund until then, that I deeply doubt whether there is any real sense in the existence of the Development Fund. But my question is about other members of the Development Fund. Could you open up a little more specifically what these other members of the Estonian Development Fund will add to the activities of the Fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U152	Thank you. I myself do not belong to the Council of the Development Fund, and I do not have any information on what other members of the Council have done, what positions have been expressed there. But the composition of the Supervisory Board of the Development Fund has been established in accordance with the Estonian Development Fund Act. There are two members from public universities, two members have been appointed by the Government of the Republic, three are representatives of the public and business and two are members of the Riigikogu. So I have had time to prepare for the question of who are the other members of the Council, and I have anticipated this question. As representatives of universities, Volli Kalm and Andres Keevallik, the third representative of the public, whose mandate continues and who is also the chairman of the council, are Ville Yehe. The Government of the Republic has only recently appointed Urve Palo and Kristen Michal as members of the Council of the Development Fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U153	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U154	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I remember the time when the Development Fund was founded and led by Heido Vitsur, who was always in the picture and stood out by having good ideas and well done analyses. In recent years, I have only heard poor feedback about the work of the Development Fund. Has it been discussed whether the elected council intends to continue with the same management? And maybe you can name a few keywords that the Development Fund has done in recent years after what you did in your presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U155	Thank you. As far as the question of what else they have done is concerned, as far as I know, they are also working on the development plan for the energy economy. They've been betting a lot, though. But indeed, now it is the so-called restorative place, and I am expecting a great deal from the new members of the Council. In fact, one third of the members of the board of directors - Mart Einasto - were still a member of the Board of the Development Fund. Once again, there has been no decision on the continuation of the Development Fund in the same way or on the reorganisation of the Fund, but in any case there is a clear plan to address this issue at the latest in September-October. There is certainly a need to review the objectives and tasks. I do not deny that there are actually a whole series of institutions willing to take over some of the functions of the current development fund. Well, that's a question of rationality, isn't it? In any case, we will consider this and we will certainly make a decision in September-October. As far as management is concerned, it has indeed been up to the development fund to find a new chairman of the board. However, this process has stopped somewhat, and for good reason. It is reasonable to wait for a new Council, which means that the new Supervisory Board will elect a new Chairman of the Governing Board. I think it's a matter of next month or two. When we met Ville Yehe in the Committee on Economic Affairs, I asked him if he thought there were bright candidates for the chairmanship of the Board of the Development Fund, and he said that he was. It inspires optimism to us too. I think it would be wise to give the Council of the Development Fund and the new Chairman of the Board three, four or five months to set new targets and then put them on the table. If they are convincing in the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the entire Riigikogu, the fund will continue. If they are not convincing in the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the entire Riigikogu, it is unwise to keep holding it. EAS is ready to take over certain functions, the Academy of Sciences is ready to take over certain functions, as well as the Confederation of Employers and the Chamber of Commerce. So there is an interest in doing the work that the Development Fund is doing in a number of other organisations.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U156	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U157	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress, do you think it is right that the Estonian Development Fund, together with its council, is a political organisation and carries out political decisions and does not really support visionaries and makers? What political party must the visionary be in order to be supported by its projects in the Development Fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U158	I think the best thing is that the visionary doesn't belong to any party. Then perhaps there is the highest probability of being supported. If he belongs to one party or another, then there is reason to vote against him because of this alone. In the case of the Development Fund, the independence of the Fund has been highlighted in its monitoring. Yes, the council also includes politicians, but the proportion of politicians, if there are two members of the Riigikogu and two representatives of the government, is four in total. So the number of non-politicals is higher. I think that the main problem is not really politicisation, and, as I pointed out, looking back in time, it can be seen that the Development Fund has been quite successful in many things, but the situation has changed quite a lot. They themselves have acknowledged, for example, in the case of the same SmartCap, that since the private interest in such investments is sufficiently high, the state should no longer contribute at this stage. As far as monitoring is concerned, another nuance stands out: there were once a lot of good analysts, but quite a few of them have left the fund for either subjective or objective reasons. I think that this is certainly one piece of work that needs to be strengthened if the Development Fund continues to operate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U159	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U160	Thank you, President of the sitting. Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs! I would like to continue on this subject with one question. I am very interested in the Estonian Development Fund Council with its policies and politicians. I am thinking of the politicians of the government coalition who, in the past, even in the previous two coalitions, took anti-business decisions. One example is the declaration of €1000 invoices. In this coalition, too, anti-business steps are under way, such as excise duties on fuel and increased VAT on accommodation establishments. Can we be sure that coalition politicians will not engage in anti-business policies in the Council of the Development Fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U161	Thank you. I certainly don't share that fear. We all know Maris Lauri, who has long been an analyst at Hansapank or Swedbank. Most of us have believed him so far, but now that he's become a politician, it's as if we don't have to believe him anymore. I think Maris Lauri is one of the best analysts in Estonia, so he is a worthy candidate for this council. And neither has Maris been given any agenda that this or another decision on the future of the Development Fund must be such or similar. It's purely up to him. He will give his opinion to the Committee on Economic Affairs, and there will be a large hall if we have to take a decision. The same goes for Evgeny Ossinovski. There aren't many strong personalities like Evgeny Ossinovski. In summary, it is very good that there will soon be a lot of fresh blood in the Council of the Development Fund. I believe that these are indeed very good candidates. The same can actually be said of representatives of the general public and of business. Sven Papp is a very experienced lawyer standing behind Raidla Ellex. He's been a lawyer at this law firm for a very long time and a man with a very high sense of mission. Similarly, Mart Einasto is a very good renomeist, who was also in the previous composition and continues now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U162	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U163	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I have the following question. In order to appoint a new representative of entrepreneurship and the public, the Committee on Economic Affairs addressed different organisations. What kind of organizations were they? And why were Sven Papp and Mart Einasto the persons whose names the committee decided on the basis of the result of the vote to enter the Riigikogu's draft decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U164	Thank you. I think you've been out of the hall for a while. At the beginning, I introduced that the Economic Commission turned to EVEA, the Chamber of Service Economy, the Estonian Employers' Confederation and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, i.e. four organisations. In addition, as I also said, the Estonian Hospitals Association presented its candidate on its own initiative. The second question is quite simple for me to answer. The vote was secret, but Sven Papi and Mart Einasto's candidacy was unanimous. All members of the Commission supported the nomination of these two men. I believe this is the best assurance of their strength.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U165	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U166	Thank you, manager. Mr President of the Commission. I am pleased that elections to the committee are held on democratic grounds, but as a result of democracy, only the coalition ambassadors became representatives of the Riigikogu. The role of the Supervisory Board of the Development Fund should be quite large in order for the Estonian economy to grow and develop. Unfortunately, the Estonian economy has been stagnating for a long time, with growth of only 1% in the first quarter of this year. Would you not have delighted, as chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, if there had also been a representative of the opposition who would have represented a different vision of the growth of the Estonian economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U167	Thank you. I would, of course, personally have had no objection if there had also been a representative of the opposition. However, I certainly do not agree that the views of the opposition representative on the future of our economy should be significantly different from those of the coalition. I believe that the choices are not very different and even contradictory. However, once again, this was the result of a secret vote and I do not know who voted. And, of course, I have no reason to state my position here, otherwise it would not be a secret vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U168	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! When the Committee on Culture came to know the work of the Academy of Sciences, there was much talk about the academy's attempts to contribute more to shaping the development of Estonia, and it was quite clear that the Academy of Sciences had held consultations to take over certain functions of the Development Fund. I wonder whether this is only an academy vision or whether it has been discussed in the Commission. If this has been discussed, will such a development be seen as a positive perspective?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U170	Thank you. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, Maris Lauri and I have met Tarmo Soomere. Yesterday, we had a so-called fielding session at the proud palace of the Academy of Sciences, and there Tarmo Finlandre and I had a great deal of talk about it again. I dare say with certainty that the potential of the Academy of Sciences is clearly underutilised. It was completely incomprehensible to me that when I met the heads of the Development Fund and asked them if they had ordered anything from the Academy of Sciences, the answer came that practically nothing. It doesn't make any sense! What is more important here: according to some old templates, the idea of the Academy of Sciences is such that there are ladies and gentlemen from the age of 70. In fact, there is a quite a bunch of people who have a very strong will for action and have considerable knowledge. So I think that's obviously underutilized potential. The Development Fund has expressed its willingness, to a considerable extent in terms of monitoring, to place orders on them or even to transfer certain functions to them. So this is one of the possible options for planning the future of the Development Fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U171	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U172	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Before the Commission voted secretly, there was also a completely public vote on the method of voting. The opposition suggested that each member could have one vote and that, according to the number of votes, the membership of the supervisory board would also be formed. The coalition found that each must necessarily have two votes so that representatives of the coalition could be elected. Why did you not support the opposition proposal at that moment, but here today you are saying that you believe that the opposition could also be represented there in the Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U173	Thank you. First of all, I expressed my position in principle. This does not concern a particular choice and it is not excluded that I could have supported the opposition candidate in the secret vote. But indeed, Andres Herkel suggested that every member of the Economic Commission should have one vote, and I suggested that every member of the Economic Commission should have two votes, because we still chose two members. This is again the pain or charm of democracy. It was decided that each one had two votes, as it were written in the minutes, and each one had two votes in the secret ballot.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U174	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U175	Thank you. Mr President of the Committee on Economic Affairs. For the Riigikogu to appoint two representatives to the Council of the Development Fund, two representatives of the Riigikogu had to be recalled. It was Indrek Saar and Valdo Randpere. The island is no longer in the Riigikogu, Randpere still is. When you look at what happened in the Development Fund last year, Postimees published a series of articles and wrote that, among other things, beer and wine flowed as streams in the Development Fund. Back then, when there was a major scandal with Estonian Air, the entire company board resigned. Can it be said now that Valdo Randpere took political responsibility and resigned because of what happened in the Development Fund last year? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U176	Thank you. You can ask that question after Valdo Randpere. I don't have the authority to answer on his behalf.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U177	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U178	Thank you. Mr President of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Let's take a look at the history of the development fund. The fund has been set up for quite a lot of work to ensure export growth and economic development, to increase the qualifications of workers and to support job creation, but for seven to eight years, the third chairman of the board is already working there. Don't you mind such a constant change of board?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U179	Thank you. Of course it doesn't. If there was still wine there and everything else flowing, that exchange was well-founded.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U180	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U181	I want to ask you about Kadri Samson's recent question. Mr Kivimägi, can you confirm that from the moment I became a member of the Council, an internal audit was carried out in the Development Fund, which revealed just that the beer and wine had flowed there, and as a result the leadership of the Development Fund was replaced, a new leader was sought, and since there were also elections to the Riigikogu, a new member had to be appointed to the Council, and I felt that my work was done because the Development Fund had been repaired? Can you confirm that this is the way things went?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U182	Thank you. I can confirm that by simply believing you. At the time these processes took place in the Development Fund, I was still the mayor of Pärnu, and I was not very keen on the development fund. But I totally believe the version you submitted here. I think that all other members of the Riigikogu also have reason to believe that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U183	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There are no negotiating requests. The commission has proposed a final vote of 46 on the draft decision. I am voting on draft 46 of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint the members of the Board of the Estonian Development Fund. Please take a stand and vote. 51 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 27 against and 2 abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U184	Let's go to the sixth item on today's agenda. This is the second reading of the draft law amending the Water Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the rapporteur is Rein Ratas, Vice-Chairman of the Environment Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U185	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! At the Riigikogu plenary session on 27 May. a passed the first reading of the draft law amending the Water Act 23. The deadline for amendments to the draft was set at 29 May. 10 a.m. The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu stated in its session s. a on 1 June 2004 that no amendments had been received. The Committee on the Environment found that the draft law under discussion creates sufficient legal clarity in Estonian law, which is due to the European Union Directive 2008/56/EC, in other words the Marine Strategy Framework Directive. The Committee on the Environment unanimously called for the end of the second reading of the draft 23 and, when it is closed, for the draft to be referred to the third reading and put to the final vote. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U186	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, At first reading, I gave an example of Nord Stream and the situation in which the Estonian state said that this facility was extremely damaging to the environment, and refused to do so. Our neighbors Finns and Swedes said that everything was okay and decided to participate in the project. If the immediate neighbours have such different views, if there is such a difference of attitude here at 80 kilometres away, how can this maritime strategy be linked to others? That's what I asked for at first reading, but I didn't really get the answer. Now I ask, firstly, whether it was discussed in the Commission. Secondly, how do you feel about adopting a coherent maritime strategy at all when the neighbours have different views?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U188	Good questioner! Your question is extremely complex. There are interlocking transnational problems, highly environmental sensitive issues relating to the sea and perhaps even more to maritime affairs, such as the surge in oil tanker traffic in the Gulf of Finland and in the Baltic Sea in the last ten years. All these economic and conservation problems are also interlinked with the various political issues that make matters very difficult. If the draft law amending the Water Act under discussion now imposes an obligation on the government and, as our legislator, we make a commitment to prepare a maritime strategy, then it is absolutely positive. However, this strategy sets out a number of maritime policy and strategy issues that we have in common with Finland. I think that if we had a marine strategy, if it had existed already before the procedure for assessing the environmental impact of Nord Stream, I dare say with certainty that our approach to this issue would have been quite close to that of Finland, rather, the approach of the Republic of Finland would have been close to ours. So the marine strategy is precisely what will help to avoid these, I would say, misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U189	Dear waitress, have you spoken? Thank you. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U190	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Rhine! I would like to ask whether, in the preparation of the draft law amending the Water Act, there was also a question of legitimising the construction of the Paljassaare cultural deposits in the water, even though it is legal. Was there, for example, a creative discussion about such a special case in other places or cases, or was the question raised as to why it is so long?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U191	Thank you, good questioner! I say that there was, in essence, but there was no debate on the direct planned islands of Paljassaare. However, § 3410 attached to the Water Act, which is the subject of the draft under consideration, deals with the application of exceptions to the achievement of environmental targets. I quote: '... changes or changes in the physical characteristics of the marine area resulting from activities of public interest which outweigh the negative effects on the environment, including any cross-border effects. ' What I have read now is a provision in paragraph 1 as to where exceptions to achieving environmental targets may apply. Firstly, of course, if the result of this proposed activity, the sea-related activity, is not significantly environmentally hazardous, and secondly, if the public interest is so high that it outweighs the negative environmental impact. In that sense, there was a debate, yes. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U192	Thank you. Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U193	Thank you very much. I'll start talking. Yesterday, an international ocean day was celebrated on our planet. In Estonia, the concepts related to the seas of Europe are more widely used. Ocean Day's motto and guiding principle this year was the 'Healthy Ocean, a healthy planet'. If we are now talking about a maritime strategy with regard to the Water Act, it should be rather strange nations or countries with divergences in strategic objectives. What you're talking about, misunderstandings, as you've mentioned, is more tactical issues. Do you see that cooperation between countries will have optimistic perspectives on tactical issues in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U194	Thank you, good questioner! You certainly know that everything starts with good practice, good culture, a high level of culture, whether it is a maritime culture or a culture of living at all. Then there will be a corresponding right, a state law, including environmental law. Environmental law is already giving birth to sectoral environmental strategies, followed by all kinds of action plans. I understand that Estonia is a cultural state, but I think Estonia is a cultural state, and a democratic state too, an environmental strategy cannot be fundamentally inconsistent, given the cross-border effects, the environmental strategy of a neighbouring country or of another country in its region. The strategy is a good thing you mentioned. When we talk about maritime affairs, Estonia is well known to have a maritime policy, which the Government of the Republic confirmed with its organisation in 2012 and will be in place until 2020. That's a good thing. The Marine Strategy is already a tougher act, but a tougher act would be, good colleagues, sea law. There's no law of the sea. We do have the National Library Act, the National Opera Act, the KBFI Act of Endel Lippmaa Institute, not to mention the Forest Act, the Water Act, the Land Underground Act, etc. But we don't have sea law. At the same time, we consider ourselves a sea state, we have 3 800 kilometres of sea-going coastline. At the beginning of the re-entry period, 76 cargo ships went under the blue black and white flag under the red flag. Unfortunately, just over a year ago, there was no cargo ships under the blue black and white flag. Now, as far as I know, some have come again, and that's good. But we do not have the law of the sea, although at the time of the previous Riigikogu Jaanus Tamkivi, Minister of the Environment at the time, responding to questions about the necessity of the law of the sea in this Chamber, considered it very, very necessary. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U195	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U196	Thank you, manager. rapporteur, thank you very much for your very meaningful and intelligent answers. It seems to me that this is a very strong environmental specialist. However, you did not answer Mr Stalnukhin in substance. Finland coordinated the construction of Nord Stream gas pipeline and Estonia did not coordinate, but we have a common sea. What difference does it make which side of this pipe bursts and which side of the wind carries the pollution? Should we not coordinate such decisions with Finns and should Finns coordinate them with Estonians? In making such unilateral decisions, we are actually endangering the environmental safety of another country.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U197	One of the basic principles for environmental use in the European Union is the precautionary principle. If it is not fully established that the proposed action has no significant impact on the quality of the environment, on the state of the environment, then the matter must be considered until it is clear that the impact on the environment may be significant or, on the contrary, that this effect is not significant. I am not an arbitrator to decide on Estonia's and Finland's positions on Nord Stream. The honourable previous speaker, who answered the questions, praised Tarmo Soiret, the honorable president of our Academy of Sciences. What I can say is that Tarmo Soomere, the Honorable Professor, the academician, the current President of the Academy of Sciences, was one of the leading players a year ago when the issue of the environmental impact assessment of Nord Stream was on the agenda. He considered that studies by Nord Stream could pose a significant threat to the Baltic Sea, and also opposed coordination. I don't want to get behind anyone's back that that's what he said, but he's a maritime specialist, he's been studying and working in this field for many years, he knows. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U198	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U199	Thank you. Good colleague! For the entire maritime area of Estonia, this draft will create new conditions, rules and organisation of work. My question has to do with this. Do you see practical difficulties in implementing a new maritime strategy if we really do not have maritime law to date?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U200	First of all, this maritime strategy needs to be drawn up. There isn't one right now. As has been said, we already have a maritime policy that was accepted by the government three years ago. I think that it is sometimes premature to talk about difficulties or certain obstacles to the implementation of the marine strategy. As the honourable questioner also mentioned the law of the sea on his question, I would say that it is certainly more difficult to implement any strategy, any sectoral, sectoral policy and strategy, than it is not possible to rely on a specific law in the same area, the same sector. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U201	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U202	Thank you, Mr President. Vice-Chairman of the Committee on the Environment. I, too, ask about the missing sea law. As we know, every Riigikogu commission has its own partner minister in the government, and for the Committee on the Environment, it is undoubtedly the Minister for the Environment. I am a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, at the beginning of this composition, our committee has been able to go to our committee to present its work plans by the Minister of Justice, and yesterday the Minister of the Interior also did. Has the Minister for the Environment visited the Committee on the Environment to present his four-year work plan, and does it include the drafting of maritime law? If not, and if this law is not on the work plan, could you not propose that the Ministry of the Environment take it into its four-year work programme?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U203	Thank you for your excellent question, it will delight my soul very much. Yes, the current Minister for the Environment, when he had been in his new office for just a few weeks, visited the Committee on the Environment and gave an overview of what is planned to be done in the legislative field under his leadership this year. It was about the new Water Law, not the current Water Law, but the whole new Water Law. We were talking about a new waste law and one piece of legislation, as well as another, to be supplemented and amended. In the Committee on the Environment, the issue of the necessity of maritime law was indeed raised, because, you see, the sea affects almost all of us, both the people of Obinitsa and the people of Viimsi. The Maritime Act concerns all government agencies, especially the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Rural Affairs, but also many others. If we're talking about surveillance, so is the Homeland Department. The Minister did not think that this law was not necessary, but because this law does not only concern the sea, but affects as well as every member of the Estonian human soul, including every member of the government, every ministry, profession, inspection, it seems that this cannot be rushed. Therefore, I cannot answer the question of what position the government will take, in particular the Ministry of the Environment. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U204	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U205	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Vice-Chairman of the Committee on the Environment. This part of the Water Law, which specifically deals with the sea, should concern not only the soul of every man living by the sea, but also all that lies in the sea, whether it be fish, stones, sunken ships, or pipes. The sea is known to have all kinds of pipelines, and Nord Stream is also in the sea. If there was a discussion here about whether to draw this gas pipe through the territorial waters of Estonia or whether it must remain outside it, it was said that if the gas pipeline is in the territorial waters of Estonia, it is extremely toxic and dangerous, but if it is outside the territorial waters of Estonia, it is not toxic or dangerous. Does the Water Act also say anything about the fact that this sea, which is in the territorial waters of Estonia, is somehow different from the other sea?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U206	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor on this issue as a member of the Riigikogu and as a teacher of Estonian. The subject is the word 'e.g.' and its use in these draft laws that we are adopting here. In the draft we are discussing, this is on the first point. The beginning of the text sounds like this: 'Restriction of substances, energy... 'The logical end of the sentence: 'it has or may have an adverse effect... 'If there was a point, I'd agree. But there's no point here, there's a comma after which the word 'e.g.' comes and another six and a half rows are given. We accept the Estonian Constitution, an arbitrary section with classification. Paragraph 20: 'Everyone has the right to liberty and integrity of a person. Then comes six points that show when freedom can be taken away. Why, I'm asking. You could put the word 'example', give an example, and live on. We are working in accordance with the Home and Working Rules Act, which lays down the basis for the end of the mandate of the Vice-Chairman of the Commission and sets out five specific bases. What for? Put the word 'for example', say that in connection with the end of the mandate of the Riigikogu, that is all. How easy it is to write the law with the word 'for example'. It is always necessary to make choices; we cannot assume that someone is so wise that for example, this example can be understood. Some of the men my husband calls and tells me to buy something delicious for the evening, such as sausage, go and buy mustard. Some men need a specific list. The sentence that comes after the word 'for example' does not really make any constructive sense. I am mainly addressing the chairman of the committee right now; I am addressing the board of the Riigikogu and the staff of the Committee on the Environment. In my opinion, this bill requires linguistic revision. It cannot be left in this way. Okay, I was gonna have a longer call, but I'm gonna be shown to wrap it up. Colleagues, if it remains as it is in this quoted paragraph, it is not a law, it is a recommendation. If there is a desire to do so, then seven points must be put here, based on the text, which explains what pollution is, and nine points should be added to the last point, which explains... well, the seventh point, but I can no longer look for it now. Colleagues, this is just a job for someone who has not done it; it certainly needs to be done! I urge the Commission to refuse this cull and to suspend the procedure, even in order to improve the draft linguistically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U207	Thank you. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U208	Good President! Colleagues! I want to pay tribute to Mr Rein Ratas. He is a true professor in environmental matters and is very pleased that the Vice-Chairman of the Environment Committee is a professional who knows what he is saying and knows what he is doing. The same cannot be said about the Ministry of the Environment. I don't want to be a negative person, and I'm not a negative person, but I received a written reply today about the Paljassaare cultural halls, a second written reply from the Ministry of the Environment. The first written reply showed that the advisors of the Ministry of the Environment lacked fully functional reading skills (the letter had the signature of two advisers). The letter today has been signed by an advisor, and his name is Kaspar Anderson. So thank you in every way, I have been assured that this project has been under way for seven years. Now there will be an exception to the law, which Mr Ratas pointed out, and this project will correspond exactly to this exception. And now listen to this interesting thing. On the basis of the answer received, I dare say that the Ministry of the Environment, from Mr. Tamkivi, came Mrs. Pentus-Rosimannus, and now Marko Pomerants has not even opened my project. I mean, the answer is the words'referred to the stakes in the building process'. I don't know what dream they were in or under. There's no question about stakes in the project. Four underground floors of garages are planned in the project. Are these underground floors on stakes? The new technology, I think, is excellence, can only be like this in Estonia. Everywhere, these cultural clusters are very fine. The Finns, the Norwegians, the people of St. Petersburg, all agree to put their money and resources down, but we have flooded islands on stakes. There's not a word I've been told about drowning in solid matter! Not a word! Because there's water a mile deep, where the hell am I going to drown that solid in there?! The Ministry hasn't even opened the project. Comrades, politicians, fellow fighters! In order to continue the detailed plan in substance, it is not wise to continue the political debate, but to ask the developer to answer the substantive questions so that it is possible to proceed with the coordination process. Yes! Go, Ministry of the Environment, go, environmentalists! I'm glad we have Rein Ratas, who knows what nature conservation is and what environmental protection is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U209	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no more wish to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 23. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U210	Yes, he does. Dr Vasilyev, the good questioner, I bow very deeply to your wisdom and you have no doubt rightly mentioned that this legislative amendment concerns not only the human soul but also fish. But I say to my consolation and perhaps as a reminder to you, Honourable Dr. Vasilyev, that, roughly over a century and a half ago, Friedrich Engels, in his famous monograph 'The dialectics of Nature', wrote such a very clever sentence: 'We will never know how ants perceive chemical rays. " So you, not to mention my humble person, obviously don't know how the fish might feel about this change of law. But I said at the beginning that yes, the Water Act as a whole and also the Act under discussion are treated differently to the Estonian territorial sea, the Estonian economic zone, the inland sea, because only it applies to them, it does not apply to international waters, its legal competence does not extend to it. However, if you now also want to have my position as to whether a gas pipeline or an electric cable is, in our opinion, toxic in the territorial sea of Estonia, in the economic zone, environmentally harmful, or how you have said, and there is no outside, we will, of course, not do so. In at least the same climatic conditions as we are talking about the Baltic Sea as a whole, it is still, in principle, harmful or non-damaging. Of course, much depends on how it is installed, when additional measures are at risk, but under similar conditions, similar constructions and realization technologies, it is equally non-damaging or harmful. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U211	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the questioners and the answerer! I have a request that we try to remain within the framework of the draft we are discussing. Engels is a well-known man, but nothing connects him to the Water Act. Let's keep going. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U212	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Why are we discussing here today this draft law amending the Water Act when soon the government plans to come up with a completely new Water Act? What, then, does the Water Law want to change so much that a completely new text is needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U213	Thank you, Mr. Asker! Mr President, I would like to thank you for your comment. I would very much ask you, as President of the sitting, to tell me who, after my report, I am obliged to answer the questions, that I do not have to answer any questions, not that I do not have to answer them. In other words, you would say that I must not answer it, it is not relevant, it is not relevant, and then I will not answer it, I will keep my mouth shut. But if the questioner takes the talk of the human souls to whom this Water Law applies to fish, then I have every right to take it to ants and to refer to the authority of the overnighting century. So I'm sorry, I don't feel like I missed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U214	Dear waitress, your answers have been very relevant and good. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U215	Thank you! Good questioner! Look, we're dealing with, let's say, some sort of spray action. We're kind of sprayers right now, firefighters in modern language. Last year, the European Commission sent us a notice of infringement of this Water Strategy Framework Directive. And now, in order to prevent all the bad things that the European Commission can expect us to do until we go to court and pay heavy fines, this must be done now. It's urgent. The house is on fire, it needs to be erased. And then we build a new one. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U216	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U217	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Rein Ratas! I have a question about the fact that much has been discussed today that Estonia needs maritime law, that Estonia is a maritime state, etc. I totally agree with this, very right topic, but I think that Estonia is also a lake state. Lake Peipsi is very important to Estonia, for example, there are 50 lakes in Lake Kurtna in Ida-Virumaa. Don't you think Estonia needs a lake law too?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U218	Thank you! That's a very interesting question. I don't think this is the right time to adopt the law on lakes. However, that time may come after a while. However, at least 1,500 of these lakes are currently covered relatively well by environmental law. In particular, I am thinking of the same Water Act, where lakes are dealt with very much in a number of paragraphs, paragraphs and paragraphs, plus the Nature Conservation Act, where lakes are given a large part. I mentioned a sea-going coastline earlier. Why did I call it that, you could just say the coastline? You see, according to our law, the beaches are only on the sea, Lake Peipsi, Lake Võrtsjärv, and other lakes besides them are on the shore, not the beach. Our existing law has even gone this far. So it seems that now there is no need for the law of the lake, we have more important things, for example, this sea law, which is now, fortunately, many times more important. But I will not rule out that there may never be a time when the law of the lake is also necessary. Estonia may also need a landscape law, for example. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U219	Thank you, honourable waitress, for your very meaningful answers. No more questions for you. Ladies and gentlemen, Due to the extraordinarily high interest of members of the Riigikogu in questions of personality, it is likely that we will not be able to pass the scheduled agenda at one o'clock. The Social Democratic Party Group and the Riigikogu Committee on Culture have proposed to extend today's plenary session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. I have a motion to vote on these proposals. Let's get to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Riigikogu Committee on Culture and the Social Democratic Party Group to extend the plenary session of 9 June until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. By 51 members of the Riigikogu, 32 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Let's move on to the agenda. I'm opening negotiations. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U220	We will proceed to the seventh item on the agenda: First reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Ground and Environmental Charges Act, initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodichi, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Kalvi Tõvi and Mati Raidma. Rapporteur Member of the Riigikogu Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U221	Hello, Mr President. First of all, I would like to make one comment: there are more initiators than you have counted. Since there are seven initiators, it is important to specify that there were other members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U222	Honourable waitress! I only have four names on the agenda. If it's really wrong here, I'm sorry! Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U223	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. In the Riigikogu hall there is a broken agenda distributed. There are four initiators selected on some basis, but there are actually seven.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U224	As manager, I'm sorry! There are indeed four names on the paper given to me, and also on the paper that you have been given, but I believe that the waitress can read all these seven names to the hall. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U225	Ladies and gentlemen, First, for the sake of clarity, let me tell you who these initiators were. Some of the names have already been read to you, but I will now name all the initiators: Deniss Borodich, Valeri Korb, Andres Metsoja, Mati Raidma, Einar Vallbaum, Jevgeni Ossinovski and Kalvi Tulm. Now, the formalities have been completed, and let's get to the subject. I am pleased to introduce, on behalf of the initiators, the draft law amending the Ground and Environmental Charges Act. In the Groundbreaking Act, the volume of oil shale mining is regulated by the annual rate of oil shale mining. The annual mining rate for oil shale is the maximum amount of oil shale permitted to be extracted on the basis of all permits for oil shale mining. This annual rate has been established in the version of the Groundbreaking Act, which entered into force in 2008, based on the National Development Plan for oil shale mining and use 2008-2015. The current annual oil shale mining rate is 20 million tonnes. Since, before the entry into force of the Act, the maximum amount of mining permits for all licences was more than 25 million tonnes, the law stipulated that this rate should be set at 25 million tonnes. There were two options: the first option was that companies themselves would agree on how this reduction would work, and the second was a proportionate reduction. As we know, the companies did not reach this agreement. Therefore, the Ministry of the Environment had to order each oil shale mining company to set a reduced maximum annual rate so that the companies' total rates were equal to the maximum annual rate of oil shale, i.e. 20 million tonnes. From the point of view of the initiators of the draft, the current oil shale mining regulation is rigid and the quantity is limited on a yearly basis, both at state and company level. At the same time, the total mining capacity of the companies has been 14,7 million tonnes on average since 2009, with a maximum of almost 15.9 million tonnes in one year. Thus, for the period 2009-2014, slightly more than 4 million tonnes per year, i.e. a total of 24172000 tonnes, have been extracted less than the annual rate. The mathematical process tells us that the non-extracted oil shale stock also has a lower environmental impact due to the use of oil shale mining. With the regulation proposed in this draft, the initiators want to enable companies to mine oil shale stocks below the annual mining rate since 2009 at an average level of seven years. The amendments to the Environmental Charges Act are intended to regulate the differences in the remuneration of the ex post mining right for quantities of oil shale extracted less than the annual rate. The amendments to the Environmental Charges Act are aimed precisely at motivating companies to predict their mining activities as accurately as possible through environmental charges and not to apply for quantities that cannot actually be extracted. When it comes to the impact of the bill, it has a positive economic and social impact. The situation in the oil shale sector depends very much on the effects of the external environment, such as the exchange price of electricity or the price of oil. It is therefore important for the sector to be able to react quickly and easily to the effects of the external environment. The regulation created by the draft act provides an opportunity to increase the mining rate in an operational manner, if factors in the external environment are favourable, without affecting the environment to an unacceptable extent. The share of the oil shale sector (both mining and processing of oil shale) in the country's economy is around 2.9% of GDP, which means that it is very important for the public economy. And it is not less important that the economic development and social well-being of Ida-Viru County depend on the success of this sector. For example, about 450 jobs need to be created for the extraction and processing of one million tonnes of oil shale. Of course, the impact of oil shale mining and exploitation on the income base of local governments is also important. Again, to give examples, one million tonnes of oil shale mining is subject to an environmental tax of approximately 2.4 million euros, a significant part of which is also paid into the budgets of local government units. Finally, I am sincerely pleased that the initiators of the draft are from different political groups, regardless of whether they belong to the coalition or to the opposition. We believe that this is a very good and very necessary law and we are asking for the warm support of all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U226	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U227	Thank you. Honourable waitress! This bill gives me the impression that it is one of the world's larger worlds, and those initiators whose names we were arguing about here at first take on something that either the Government of the Republic or the officials of the Ministry are ashamed of, they hesitate about or they do not want to be held responsible for any other reason. This is certainly a question that requires the ministry's expertise. At the moment, however, the Riigikogu will be put to the resolution of the technical issue within a very short deadline for amendments, i.e. it will be placed in a role that is not supposed to be our role. Why has this happened, and is it saying that the Ministry of the Environment has not done well in the field of mineral resources and that it has to be brought under MKM, as the coalition talks said? Somehow, there hasn't been enough of that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U228	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U229	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, as far as I know, according to the Constitution, the Riigikogu is the place where laws are passed and processed, and the members of the Riigikogu are the people who also have the right to initiate the draft. So I don't think there's anything wrong here. When it comes to the pace of whether it is urgent or not, I think it is not urgent, because this topic was also discussed in the previous Riigikogu, namely the support group for mining companies. In the previous Riigikogu there was also a draft, but since the mandate ended, the procedure was not completed. Public hearings were also held on the subject. So I don't think it's a very short processing period. The subject was known and has been dealt with since the previous term.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U230	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U231	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! It is, in itself, very pleasant that there is such a cross-group draft on the table before us, but every text always has a more specific author. Could you tell me who specifically drafted this draft and the explanatory memorandum? Has it been done by any of the initiators, an official, or has the text been written in the office of any of the companies concerned?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U232	Thank you. Good question. As I said, we have been discussing these issues since the previous composition and discussions have taken place between representatives of the sector, representatives of the Ministry and the initiators of the draft. This draft is indeed the result of these discussions and the vision of the initiators of the draft. So it's a lot of cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U233	Thank you. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U234	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Maybe I didn't express myself precisely enough. I ask once again who specifically wrote this draft and the text of the annexed explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U235	A team of initiators with representatives of the respective Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U236	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U237	Thank you. Honourable bill presenter! I also need to repeat my question. What is the position of the initiators of the draft and your personal opinion on whether the mineral resources and their management must be in the hands of the Ministry of the Environment or the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U238	Thank you. Although the issue does not particularly concern this draft, it is my personal position that was also reflected in the coalition agreement. This area could actually be divided into two areas. Environmental protection must certainly remain within the competence of the Ministry of the Environment and the economic side of this sector should really be within the competence of MKM, because MKM is dealing with economic issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U239	Thank you. No more questions for you. I would now like to ask for a presentation by Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U240	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft proposal, initiated by members of the Riigikogu Deniss Borodich, Mati Raidma, Andres Metsoja, Einar Vallbaum, Valeri Korb, Kalvi Tõud and Jevgeni Ossinovski, was discussed by the Committee on the Environment on 4 June 2015. The Commission also received the opinion of the Government of the Republic, where the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications states its view that the proposed amendment to the Ground and Environmental Charges Act will make oil shale mining and mining planning more flexible and more responsive to market needs and the resulting changes. Presentations by Deniss Borodichi and Mati Raidma, two initiators of the draft, as well as members of the Committee on the Environment, were heard in the committee. The members of the Commission also had a number of questions for them, such as mining capacity. According to the representative of the Ministry of the Environment, it is true that the quantities actually extracted in 2014 were always less than 15 million tonnes. In the near future, the reality is that over 20 million tonnes will not be lost in five years, but it will now be possible to remain flexibly within the limits of this 20 million tonnes of mining. The Commission also took procedural decisions. In consensus, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 12 noon on 10 June 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U241	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. Let's start the negotiations. Please, representatives of the political groups. On behalf of the Estonian Free Party Artur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U242	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say right now that my current speech here and the position of the Free Party on the subject being discussed are not related to any sort of stalling tactics or 'tiring tactics', but rather to opposition to a number of fundamental violations that are being committed by the introduction of this law. So I am about to start by saying that the Group of the Estonian Free Party is proposing to reject the draft law at first reading 43, and I will also hand over a letter on it. I must also stress that the position of the Free Party on oil shale matters is that oil shale should be deserved as best as possible and taken into account as much environmental impact as possible. If mining permits are distributed, the principle should be that they should be distributed to the companies that are the most high-quality in the above-mentioned issues. And we certainly do not think that oil shale mining should be stopped. On the basis of the draft legislation under discussion, I would like to point out as the first point that, in cooperation with the four political groups, this multi-crititated drafts are now going into the turbo-process. A group of the Centre Party, who itself has been involved in the drafting of this draft law, criticised very strongly a procedure a few days ago from this very panel, where one day the reading of the draft law will take place and only 24 hours will be left for amendments. Perhaps this method was considered to be very wrong. From our point of view, that's very wrong. On a subject as important as oil shale, this turbo method should not be used. The second point is that the adoption of oil shale legislation, as well as the annual mining standards, have been agreed in very broad discussions and development plans. One oil shale development plan until 2015 and the next development plan, which is currently under way, will be discussed in exactly the same way. They're talking about 20 million tons a year, and this amount is moving towards a decline. A new version of the Ground Development Plan and the Ground Law is still underway. So it's kind of weird, in the middle of dealing with such important oil shale issues, to suddenly go out for a little point change. I agree that mining volumes are rigid and should be determined in a much more flexible way. But my point of view is that it is precisely the one who deserves oil shale best and the environment most friendlyly. The retroactive power of this law is particularly disturbing. It's kind of a trick, and if we make it a so-called rule... Can I get another extension?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U243	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U244	... then I assume that in the near future, such things will certainly come to an end. It also disturbs the fact that this law can be regarded as a so-called "one company's law," i.e. reaching the law on this draft raises doubts. The Riigikogu, by this law, also signals to other companies that they can come to us if they are in a bad situation, so-called order us a law, and we will act immediately as they wish. I've already told you about the excavations. It should also be said that the impact analysis was somewhat superficial. Only the economic situation was mentioned here. We understand this economic situation very well, and we also understand very well that in previous times VKG has been treated exactly as the wind blows, i.e. one time in the same direction, the other time in the opposite direction. They've been fucked here and there. We understand that miners and oil shale processors need confidence to strategically plan their work for a longer period, but the current method is still not acceptable. Finally, I must also mention that Estonia has signed the Gothenburg Protocol to the Convention on Long-Range Air Pollution. In this protocol, air pollution standards have still become very harsh and even more severe. If we let the gin out of the bottle and allow us to mine as much as the heart can, then we will run a conflict with this convention as well. It is my call to vote against this draft, and it is precisely in the light of these points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U245	Thank you. The political groups have no more wish to negotiate. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft law 43 be terminated. However, as the Group of the Estonian Free Party has proposed to reject the draft law at first reading 43, we must vote on this proposal. Let's get to the vote. I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Free Party to reject the draft law at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 13 members of the Riigikogu, 48 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The first reading has been completed and I will set the deadline for submitting 43 amendments to the draft law. th June 10th at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U246	Colleagues, let's move on! The eighth item is the first reading of Bill No. 4 of the Estonian Centre Party Act, which was initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The rapporteur is Priit Toobal, a member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U247	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 6 April of this year, the Estonian Centre Party Group submitted a draft law supplementing the Holidays and Holidays Act § 2. The draft is intended to amend § 2 of the Holidays and Holidays Act and to include the second holiday of Easter in the public holidays. The purpose of the draft is to make Easter the second holiday in Estonia a public holiday and therefore a holiday holiday. The Centre Party Group has tabled a similar draft earlier: in May 2011 and before the current draft also on 4 November 2014. Unfortunately, both of these drafts fell out of the procedure due to the end of the work of the Riigikogu, which means that after the first reading, the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was put in a drawer waiting for better times. An interesting story happened with the same draft submitted in 2011, when the commission, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, decided not to stop reading the first reading with the votes of the coalition ambassadors and to exclude the draft from the procedure, fortunately this large hall went differently and the first reading was completed. Unfortunately, the further coalition no longer had the courage to adopt the bill as a law. I can tell you in advance that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also decided not to support this draft with the votes of the coalition members and not to finish the first reading. But why can't the great hall decide differently again, just as it did four years ago? The current Holidays and Celebrations Act provides for 11 public holidays: New Year's Day, Big Friday, Easter's first holiday, Spring Day, Pentecost's first holiday, Victory Day, Midsummer Day, Re-independence Day, Christmas Eve and First and Second Christmas Day. Last on that list was Christmas Eve, proposed by the Central Party in 2005. Estonian public holidays mostly coincide with public holidays established in other European Union countries. One difference is the second Easter holiday, which is a public holiday and a holiday in most European Union countries. This is the case in Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Spain, Ireland, Italy, Greece, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Poland, France, Sweden, Romania, Germany, Slovakia, Slovenia, Finland, Denmark, the Czech Republic, Great Britain and Hungary. Exceptions are only Estonia, Malta and Portugal, where Easter holidays are the usual working day. Outside the European Union, I would also like to mention Norway from European countries, where Easter holidays are held as almost a week's leave. I remember in 2011, when the same bill was being processed in this very Chamber, I was also the waitress, Igor Gräzin, who mentioned that there were a number of countries where this date was not even celebrated and not even announced. He mentioned India, Iran, Iraq and Afghanistan, for example. I guess that's it. But I do, and the entire Central Party Group considers that it is precisely the European cultural area that we want to belong to. The number of public holidays in Estonia would increase to 12 if the bill was adopted as a law. Easter is part of the so-called "movement celebrations." Their start is calculated by the monthly stages, they start on the first full month Sunday after the spring solstice and can therefore be between 23 March and 26 April. For example, this year the second Sunday of the Easter was on April 6th, the same day that the Central Party Group submitted the draft to Parliament's proceedings. The addition of this Easter to public holidays is understandable, since in countries with Christian traditions, it is Easter, a great Friday, a quiet Saturday, and the first and second Easter, with great emotional content, festive, family, and other relatives, and loved ones. Undoubtedly, the second Easter festival is a religious festival. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, we do not have a state church, but traditional religious holidays are nevertheless celebrated. I mentioned that there are currently 11 public holidays in Estonia. It is noteworthy that more than half, even seven, of these 11 public holidays have religious backgrounds. These are the great Friday, the first Sunday of Easter, the first festival of Pentecost, Christmas Eve, the first and second Christmas Day, and part of the Midsummer Day named after John the Baptist. Easter is the most important church year for Christians. I repeat: the most important! However, it is part of the whole that these festivals together with the smaller ones make up. They are also the saddest as well as the most joyful festivals of Jesus'birth, crucifixion, and resurrection belong together. The Estonian Council of Churches has given its position on the draft. He did so on 15 June 2011, answering questions from the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. This was done at a time when the Centre Party first brought this matter before Parliament. The draft law at the time and the draft law that is currently pending are identical in substance, so we did not see any reason to ask the Council of Churches again for a position. So neither the Central Party Group nor the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did so. The Estonian Council of Churches unites eight churches and two assemblies of congregations and a total of 400000 members. The Council of Churches supports the celebration of Easter as a national holiday. Ascension Day is Christian on the one hand, it is the resurrection from Christ's death. The other side relates to the birth of spring, the awakening of nature from winter. These two sides, in our opinion, fit very well together. Easter also has a clear place in folk culture. There are various names in Estonia for these festivals, including popular names: Easter or Easter, Passover, spring holidays, Easter and swing festivals. In South Estonia it was customary to set up a swing during these holidays, thus ending the winter ban on swinging. It was also forbidden to clean during these holidays. In northern Estonia, table jumping was practiced on Easter: both ends of the table placed at the center of the swing's support point were standing and tried to jump into the air in turn to make it possible to land back on the top of the table. In the folk calendar, it is also called Urbe Day or Urva Day, for that day, the urbs were brought to the room of the willow hoops. Thus, when the law enters into force, the second Easter holiday will become a public holiday in Estonia, as in most countries of the European Union. This simplifies the organisation of companies that have to communicate daily with parent companies or subsidiaries located in other countries. In the Nordic countries and Latvia and Lithuania, with whom Estonia has the closest economic ties, the second holiday of Easter is a public holiday and therefore a holiday day. Also, when the law is adopted, the second Easter holiday in Estonia is a normal working day, but there are no interbank transfers, because the European Central Bank has a day of rest on that day.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U248	Dear waitress, I'm very sorry to interrupt your interesting report, but time... How?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U249	Time is ruthless, I understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U250	Time is ruthless, yes. All right, you can finish your report. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U251	Thank you. As a result, the work of many companies on the second holiday of Easter is already being hindered. According to the draft, the average working week in Estonia will be shortened, which in 2008 was 41.1 hours according to a study by the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions. At the same time, the average working week in the European Union was 40.4 hours. Significantly more recent data are available from 2013. According to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), an average of 1868 hours per employee were worked in Estonia in 2013. More than this was done only in Greece, Hungary and Poland. On the other hand, the figure was 1666 hours in Finland, 1607 hours in Sweden and 1388 hours in Germany. The OECD average figure was 1770 hours in 2013, with an average of 98 hours per year working in Estonia. The Estonian people work 5% more in time than the Americans, 12% more than the British and Finns, and as much as 16% more than the Swedes. It is therefore possible to give people an extra holiday in Estonia without the average working week being shorter than the OECD and also the European Union average. Finally, I call on you all to support the draft. I hope that there will be the same consensus on this issue in this Chamber as in 2005, when a religious holiday, a Christmas Eve, was again announced as a public holiday and a holiday, on the proposal of the Central Party. I'll be happy to answer all your questions tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-09_U252	Thank you, dear waitress. Time really runs ruthlessly. It's after 1:00. Today's trial is over. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. Tomorrow we will continue to ask questions. Closure of the sitting at 13.02 a.m.
