ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Please, let's do the presence check! Currently there are 55 members of the Riigikogu. The members of the government are Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Finance Sven Sester and Minister of Foreign Affairs Marina Kaljurand. Last day, eight members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask questions, so I will give you one additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U2	The first question is for Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U3	Thank you. Dear Taavi in the garment! On 9 October this year, the limited company Transport Asset Management and the Nordic Aviation Group were registered in the Commercial Register. The Government of the Republic decided to allocate 32 million euros to the first company and 40.7 million euros to the second. But the origin of the money is not much talked about. Where did the government find almost 73 million euros in a very short period of time to set up new businesses?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U4	Thank you. First, I have a request to the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. Maybe there's some way to make sure the question is better said here. Usually the sound has been better. Please see if it's possible to help! But I'll answer your question. This is a classic financing transaction which does not affect the balance of the state budget. Since the governments of the Republic have been pursuing conservative fiscal policies and collecting reserves for Estonia for quite a long time, we will be able to make such decisions when necessary. Perhaps you are also interested in why we decided to set up companies that will be the basis for the new Estonian airline in the future. The reason is very simple. Today, not only for the convenience of passengers, but also for the competitiveness of countries, it is extremely important what air connections are like. Of course, we also considered alternatives, for example, to cooperate even more with the other Baltic countries. We thought about various options, but we were convinced that it would be better not only from the point of view of people's comfort, but also from the point of view of the Estonian economy, if we did not have to fly through the capital of a neighbouring country. I believe that you will agree with me that Estonia will also have a future airline with its own base in Tallinn is the right and necessary decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U5	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U6	Thank you! Dear Taavi in the garment! By order of the Government of the Republic, which has your signature, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure was authorised to pay a contribution of EUR 32 million for the share issued by Transport Asset Management, of which one million is the nominal value and 31 million is the premium. You also authorised a contribution of EUR 40.7 million for the share issued by the Nordic Aviation Group, of which EUR 1 million is the nominal value of the share and EUR 39.7 million is the premium. Thus, the share capital of both companies is EUR 1 million and the remaining share is indicated as a premium. Why did the government decide to take advantage of the possibility to indicate the premium when starting companies and to such an extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U7	Thank you. That's pretty normal accounting logic. As has been said, Estonia needs not only national airlines, but we have considered it important that one of the two companies, Transport Varahaldus, also acquires aircraft. Whether the aircraft is an asset described in the company's balance sheet or whether it is, for example, a long-term obligation, insofar as it is a leasing contract, is already dependent on the details of a particular transaction. But I believe that it is far more important for the Riigikogu and the public to know the accounting records: the state was already preparing for a negative state aid decision against Estonian Air, then the trips will not be interrupted and the Estonian people will be able to fly as conveniently as possible to the places they have planned. It is clear that the start of a new airline will cause some inconvenience in the short term. However, I would like to congratulate everyone in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and other public authorities, as well as in this company, who has been able to launch the business so quickly and to reduce the considerable inconvenience that could have been caused if we had not prepared everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U8	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! It seems to me that your priorities are completely out of order. If we need to find money to improve children's school meals or support farmers in difficult situations, then it is your view that we do not have any money. Although we have been talking about a much smaller amount of money than it is now. But if there is a need for some kind of new company that has not been discussed at all and whose need has not been understood by the public, let alone by consensus, you will find money by burden. How has this happened and when will the government invest in the people of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U10	Thank you. I see that you have quickly settled in and acquired the most smooth demagogue techniques. In the people of Estonia, we invest basically in the entire state budget. We will support both the school food you have mentioned and the agricultural sector next year. Moreover, the amount that we have spent this year alone, not to mention next year's state budget, has put agriculture in addition to crisis measures, is more than EUR 30 million. It has been a very rapid reaction, it has been a very necessary reaction, and it has helped both dairy producers and pig farmers a great deal. Your slightly disparaging attitude towards the new company, which will help the Estonian people to travel from Tallinn to and from important destinations in the future, is somewhat incomprehensible to me. I do not think we should take a condescending view of whether the people of Estonia have the opportunity to make their work and holiday trips or not. This is not only a question of people's comfort, but, as I emphasised earlier, the fact that there is an airline in Estonia, which is based in Tallinn, also has a very high economic impact. This impact has been assessed by several experts, and it can be said from all estimates that the direct impact of Estonian Air alone, the national company alone, has an impact of hundreds of millions of euros a year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U12	The next question is for Finance Minister Sven Sester. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U13	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! My question gives you the opportunity to respond to the position of both the minister and the long-standing member of the Riigikogu. This concerns the amendments to the state budget, which are traditionally discussed between second and third readings, which are called pampering roofing money in the media, and which the Ministry of Finance official said nicely at the meeting of the Commission that you know what kind of money. Do you think that a system such that proposals are being processed between two readings, as has been done over the years, has now become a perfect form, or should it be adjusted somewhere else? In my opinion, this is somewhat opaque and incomprehensible to a large part of the public. At times, the Riigikogu has even heard accusations of corporateism. It has been found that personal or business interests are involved in the proposals. What's your assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U14	Thank you, good questioner! The budget has never been adopted in the Riigikogu exactly as it came here. There have always been changes. Given that we have a parliamentary state, Parliament, of course, has a final say in the discharge of the budget, and also has the opportunity to make changes between the first and second readings, as well as between the second and third readings. I have realised over the years when I go to my constituencies that the changes that the members of the Riigikogu have brought to the Finance Committee and later to this large hall have included proposals that come from the third sector, local governments. Of course, Parliament has final decision-making powers as to whether to make changes and, if so, to what extent. Surely I put it to you that, in the event of changes, we should not weaken our positions. This means that if Parliament wishes to make changes during the readings, there should be no increase in expenditure in the budget during this period. Today is the second reading of the draft and adoption in December, so if you want to make changes, you have that right and you should discuss everything in Parliament, but there must also be a clear indication of the sources of cover, i.e. the places where you will see the financial cover for possible changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U15	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U16	Thank you. My point is this. Do you believe that, when making amendments of this kind, both the coalition and the opposition should have equal rights and opportunities in principle, not only formally, but also in fact and in substance? Could it be the end of the custom that the coalition, while mercifully giving the opposition the opportunity to make proposals within a certain amount of money, still taking on the bulk of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U17	Thank you. In Estonia it is not only customary, but also established by law that executive and legislative powers are separate. This can be clearly seen when the Government of the Republic is asked for an opinion on drafts concerning, for example, self-regulation or changes to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act and the internal working procedures and decision-making powers of the parliament at all. The government has generally not taken a position in such cases and has said that Parliament must, in a parliamentary state, establish and act on its own internal order. I think that all the changes should be reflected in what their content is and what their objectives are. Of course, the majority of Parliament will finally decide whether the coalition has a majority or whether there are certain agreements as required by parliamentary practice. But I would like you to have fruitful discussions on the amendments and also on their vote. Of course, most proposals generally move forward. I am therefore saying that some of the proposals have been populist over time. Such ones may not always serve the purpose that the initiator originally wanted, and often a completely different situation may turn out. But once again, Parliament has final decision-making and the government, ministers do not intervene.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U18	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister of Finance! As a hardened teacher, I am still asking a question that I have asked dozens of times from the Minister of Education, Mr Ligi, but only received vague and shocking answers. Maybe you as Minister of Finance can answer that question. What is the minimum wage for municipal school teachers on 1 January 2016?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U20	Thank you. I understand that for the questioner, whether he likes the answers or not will always be decisive. I do not think that the Minister for Education and Science has given any vague answers. The Minister of Education and Research is working to maximise the pay of teachers by the time the budget is approved in September. To this end, he has also introduced draft laws and will continue their procedure and negotiations at parliamentary level, i.e. with Members, political groups and the Committee on Culture. I think that the final clarity will come on 9 December, after the third reading and all the amendments have been last revised. To date, the Government of the Republic has issued a draft state budget, according to which 4% will be added to the teachers' payroll fund. I understand that the Minister for Education and Science has also made some further changes that will enable teachers to raise their salaries in the future. Moreover, I think the Minister for Education and Science is also currently reviewing the internal budget of his ministry. If it is possible to find more pay for teachers from there with structural changes, the Minister will do so. Looking back, we can see that in previous years, all ministers of education and research have behaved in this way. Even if the government has increased by 3 to 5%, the actual wage increase of teachers has been 8 to 10%. I believe that the current Minister for Education and Science is also making efforts to achieve this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U22	The next question is for Foreign Minister Marina Kaljuranna. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We know that recent battles have become more active in Ukraine. In light of this, I have this question: how does this battle affect the process of ratifying the border treaty between Russia and Estonia, a member of the European Union? Does it slow it down or accelerate it, or doesn't it affect it at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U24	Thank you for your question. Estonia has unequivocally condemned the occupation of Crimea and the aggressive behaviour of Russia in Eastern Ukraine. We have not changed our views on this. The fact that there have been major violations of the truce in recent weeks and days does not change our view that Russia is an aggressor. Estonia, together with the European Union and NATO countries, has made it clear several times that the non-recognition policy is in place and that we are doing everything with our partners to stop Russia's aggression in Ukraine. Estonia, together with other Member States, also supported the imposition of sanctions on Russia. However, as far as the conclusion of the border agreement is concerned, we cannot go this way, where we say that because of the aggressive behaviour of one country and because one country has violated international law, international law will become null and void. That is not the case, international law continues to apply. One of the principles of international law is this: agreements are concluded to resolve transnational issues so that there is more clarity. The border agreement is now important in the interests of Estonia and also in the interests of Russia. The border agreement will increase Estonia's security and allow possible misunderstandings about the crossing of the border line to be ruled out in the future. And Russia's current behaviour over the last few days should not affect the process of ratification of the border treaty.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U25	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U26	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, You said the border treaty would rule out misunderstandings. I would say that Ukraine and Russia had a border agreement, but there is still a very big misunderstanding. You also said that the border agreement will increase Estonia's security. Can you tell me in concrete terms how this will increase security? Now we see that our words, by which we condemn the aggressor, and our actions, by which we help the aggressor out of international isolation, separate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U27	Thank you. Just because we are concluding a border agreement does not mean that we naively think that Russia will change its behaviour in Ukraine on a daily basis. However, as far as the border between Estonia and Russia is concerned, Estonia is currently the last country of the European Union and NATO that does not have a border agreement with Russia. Contracts shall be concluded in accordance with international law in good practice and in the knowledge that they will be executed. Yes, they may be corrupted, but then sanctions will follow, the behaviour of another country in this regard. In bilateral relations, each border agreement and the matter covered by the agreement is better than the issue solved without a legal party. So in this sense, the agreement is better than its absence, which makes it possible to better guard the Estonian state border, makes it more logical and solves some of the issues that are still open at different border sections, while the collection increases Estonia's security.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U28	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U29	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U30	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! The Cohabitation Act was adopted in the Riigikogu on 9 October 2014 and its entry into force was foreseen on 1 January next year, together with implementing acts. The draft law implementing the Cohabitation Act reached the discussion of the Legal Affairs Committee on 29 October, but by then the position of the Government of the Republic had not yet been reached. It therefore seems that the Government of the Republic has not developed a position on this law. How do you justify not making a statement from the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U31	Thank you. The Government of the Republic discussed this issue on 5 November, and since the coalition partners do not have a common position on this issue, we decided to write it in exactly the same way. In order not to make a secret of it, you have to say it straight. The two coalition partners consider that, once the law has been passed, the legislation needed to implement the law must also be adopted. One coalition partner has a different opinion and we have been aware of it from the beginning. However, the fact that the government is not consensual about this does not mean that Parliament cannot discuss this issue. Estonia is a parliamentary state. I believe that this is certainly not a place where water will have to go between the coalition and the opposition. This is not a party-political question in any way. So I believe that if Parliament considers it right that the law that has already been adopted can be correctly implemented, it will adopt implementing acts and will do so in such a way that there will also be votes from opposition ambassadors.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U32	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U33	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! A situation in which a substantive legal basis has been created for the conclusion of the Cohabitation Act but has not established proper rules to guarantee the right of a person under the Law is contrary to § 14 of the Constitution. The European Court of Human Rights may also hold the Estonian state liable for the lack of a legal framework. You said that the government does not have a common position. How is it ensured that the law will enter into force on 1 January 2016, when there are only 38 initiators, but 51 votes are needed for adoption, and it is not at all certain that there will eventually be no votes from the opposition?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U34	Thank you. I am very pleased that you, as an opposition ambassador, have such serious concerns about this. I hope you will also be able to convince your groupmates. If the faction of the Centre Party is united on this issue and, like you, advocates greater legal clarity in the Estonian country, any person who knows any mathematics can say that the implementing law can be adopted nicely. So I wish you luck and strength!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U35	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U36	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! In the previous Riigikogu, the adoption of the Cohabitation Act required the application of clever tricks and tricks. However, you knew very well that it would not be possible to adopt the law without implementing legislation and that 51 votes would not be taken together. After all, you put the current government and the Riigikogu in a tank. On the one hand, the law should be passed, but on the other hand, you knew it wouldn't work anyway. Are you happy about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U37	Thank you. You had a long story and a beautiful question. I'm a happy person, but I'm made happy by the simplest things in life. Even if I can go home after a long working day and spend time with my family. Family life makes me so much happier than any law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U38	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U39	The next question is also for Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In December 2012, you took up the position of Minister for Social Affairs and called one of the most important and undoubtedly most important topics of your term of office a reform of the capacity to work involving more than 100000 Estonians. Both you and all subsequent ministers have said that, as a result of the work capacity reform, the situation of people of working age with disabilities will be improved and that everyone who wants to take up work will get it. It has also been stressed all the time that the situation of people with disabilities must not get worse. Now we know that not everything is that simple. Several issues remain, such as job shortages, provision of services, etc. Throughout your time as Minister for Social Affairs, you have been very active in this matter, so I am now asking for your position as Prime Minister. What do you think about the preparation and progress of the work capacity reform? What has gone better than you hoped, and what mistakes have been made?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U41	Thank you. This is a very right and important issue, because the implementation of the labour capacity reform remains very important. We still have a very serious structural problem in Estonian society. On the one hand, we have a very serious shortage of labour, employment has reached a booming level, it is very difficult to find people to work. However, on the other hand, we know that there are estimated tens of thousands of people among us who would be willing to work and want to be active in society, but either they are hindered by disability or they have some other objective reason that the country can help to overcome or overcome. It is therefore very important that we make an effort to do so. It is important for these people themselves, because everyone wants to be active and participate in society, but it is also important for society as a whole. A situation in which many people are forced to stay away from the labour market is causing serious problems and we want to solve them. The truth is that the reform has been prepared for a very long time. I wasn't the first social minister to carry it. You yourself have seen all this as an expert in the field and as a representative of interests very closely along the lines. I can only say so much that so far, in general, we have moved as planned. But in order to make sure that the reform enters into force in time, it has been delayed for six months. I really hope that during this period it will be possible to put it into practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U42	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U43	Thank you. Thank you for your answer. In the course of the reform, a "one-door" policy has been introduced, i.e. a person receives a service from one place, no matter where he or she enters, either from the unemployment fund or from the SKA. This has led to the need to change the methodology for determining disability for disabled persons of working age. At the same time, it has become apparent that this has an unexpected and unwanted side effect. In fact, the amendment reduces the support of around 50% of people of working age with disabilities, which is already low. For example, support for people with medium mobility is falling from EUR 48 to EUR 41, which is EUR 7. The losers are mostly people with medium disability, 50% of them, and 8% of the new system wins. So I have a question. How do you assess the situation? How can it be explained to those whose income is falling, that there are additional activity obligations, but that part of the support is lost? What would you say to these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U44	Thank you. What I'm saying is that the state is making a very serious effort and helping these people find a rewarding job that gives them the opportunity to cope independently, to be an active member of society. As we well know, a good job is better than any social security allowance. But when we come to the grants, I dare say that the total amount of subsidies, as well as the individual grants, will certainly increase. While I was still a minister, we agreed jointly that the future disability allowance should not be less for people than the old disability pension. At the same time, we know that our effort, however, is not aimed at ensuring that there are as many benefits as possible, but at what people themselves want to do to cope with their salary, their income, and should not only live on the amount of aid. In addition to direct financial support, there will be even multiple allocations aimed at providing services to people. We have planned around EUR 200 million, including European Union money, to provide services and aids and to help people often overcome their disability with investment or treatment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U45	Thank you. The Employment Allowance Act was passed in this Chamber exactly a year ago, and we remember how much opposition there was. At the beginning of the new formation, the Ministry made an amendment to the Employment Capacity Allowance Act. The Ministry, in turn, made a number of improvements. There is also the Social Welfare Act, to which the Ministry has made very many improvements. We've changed the deadlines and so-called modified them. We sit here for tens of hours, and we actually do the ministry's work, because the officials there are each doing their own piece of work, and generally it's like we can't do it. If you think that everything is right now, because the draft laws are already in this Chamber at second reading, that is not the case. How come there's so much confusion?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U46	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U47	Thank you. The fact that Parliament not only has a positive role to play in preparing for a very large reform, but also a substantial contributor is, in my view, rather positive. As Members of Parliament, you have a lot of opportunities to communicate with people, listen to their views and take them into account, and improve the draft if possible. This is not the case only with the reform of the capacity to work. I believe that in a parliamentary state, every Member must have time to delve into all important drafts, to hold meetings with interest groups, to make public committee meetings, if necessary, and to improve the drafts. I think that even when ministries see, after meeting interest groups or implementing the law, that one or another nuance should be regulated differently, there is nothing to be ashamed of when they come before Parliament and justify their proposals. This way the law can also be specified, of course, with your approval. No major reform will come easily. It is never the case that a law is made in silence in the cabinet, and this is exactly the form that Parliament will process it. This is not the case with major reforms. My hope and recommendation is for you, good members of the Riigikogu, that you not only make a very serious effort on this bill, and I think you will make a similar effort on future drafts. This is all for the good of our Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U48	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U49	The next question is for Finance Minister Sven Sester. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U50	Thank you, manager. Minister of Finance! The state budget consists of different types of revenue. One type of income is the sale of state assets, i.e. state land, which is planned to be EUR 13 million in next year's budget. Based on what rules does the Government of the Republic sell state land, and how is it regulated?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U51	Thank you. I start with the Ministry of Finance has prepared and also submitted to the government a summary report on the state's real estate. This will be discussed further during this year, in November or December. In the summary report, the Ministry of Finance has also proposed, mainly to the Ministry of the Environment, to lay down, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, criteria for the transfer of unnecessary assets to the State and to specify the rules. Proposals should be submitted to the government, once the summary report is approved, on 31 March of the following year. Now, however, I come specifically to see how and on what basis, in general, the property, in your question mostly the land, is being disposed of. I will mention the five criteria that the Land Administration has taken into account for the land units to be sold during each financial year. Firstly, in the case of agricultural land, less than 50 hectares are first examined, the price of which is not expected to increase. The Land Board will review their size, location, access and quality. Secondly, land units located in densely populated areas and in a compactly populated area, which are managed at higher costs for the State, will be reviewed. Thirdly, land improvement related to land, which also entails or may entail costs. Fourthly, there are green areas between private countries and scattered areas, which are often without access. Fifthly, land of little value and land of no use to the state for land reform purposes. These are the priorities which the State generally pursues in the case of land sales.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U52	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U53	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I understand that the rules by which state property is sold do not exist. There are some criteria and the Earth Authority's choice. Is it theoretically possible to sell land next year for, for example, EUR 50 million? Is something restricting it, or is it somehow regulated?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U54	Thank you. Well, look, you ask and I answer, but you make your conclusions. I reaffirm that very clear criteria are in place. But the government will look even more into the content and want to clarify even more nuances in the future. The Land Office has also taken into account which land units have been less attractive over time and which are more attractive. When putting the state budget together, the government is usually always guided by what the Land Board prescribes. If we look at the current year of 2015, we will see that the money that the Land Administration has foreseen for the state budget is in the order of EUR 12 million. By 2016, 13 million euros will be made available to the state budget. And if you ask the Earth Administration where it's taking that 13 million, it'll be able to tell you very clearly, by object, what they want to sell specifically. In my first reply, I also tried to give you an indication of which criteria are generally taken into account. And if you noticed my answer, the state will try to realise those land objects that are either less valuable to the state or costly to sustain. Don't forget that this is taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U55	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U56	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister of Finance! You don't need emotion to solve Newton's binomial formula. As a person of real subjects and a master of psychology, I can ask an exact question that wants a concrete and precise answer. Your answer to my first question was not convincing. For the wage increases promised by the previous ministers of education, you threw 10% and so on, but they do not apply in objective reality, they are a little touchy. Now I'm gonna ask you again. What is the planned minimum wage for teachers on 1 January 2016 and how far have you reached in the coalition with your negotiations?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U57	Thank you. I want to tell you first of all that the sale of land is not directly linked to the increase in teachers' salaries. But I will go over again the answer I gave to your first question. At the moment, both the Minister for Education and Research and Parliament have the power and power to act to maximise the pay of teachers in 2016. What do I mean by that? We are currently dealing with the state budget at second and third reading. During this period, it will be possible to propose amendments both to the Minister for Education and to you, a good Member, if you aim to increase the pay of teachers. After the third reading of the state budget closes and goes into execution, we can say what is the final increase in teachers' pay. Right now, we're working to make sure it's maximum. As I told you in my first reply, the government has already directed 4% of Estonian taxpayers' money to raise the salaries of teachers' payroll.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U58	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U59	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! The first recipients of the terrorist charge are in Estonia. The Defence Police Department notes in its Yearbook that we have a very small terrorist threat because there are no terrorist groups. Last night, however, Siim Kallas was concerned about individuals, not about groups, on the Forum. The Department of Defence also notes that recent signs of radical Islamism have been observed to deepen and become more modern. It states that the state should start thinking about the creation and implementation of de-radicalisation programmes. Has the state begun to think about such programmes, perhaps taking something into practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U61	Thank you. Every society must constantly monitor all kinds of threats. So Estonia must monitor not only the risks that are likely to materialise, but also the threats that have materialised in another European country through its own security authorities. It is precisely for this reason that we, who so far have only very few experiences with Islamic extremism, must keep an eye on the fact that there is no real risk of developing from individual cases. The fact that there are a few thousand Muslims in Estonia certainly does not mean that there are a significant number of those who have radicalised. Rather, our information is the opposite in the lion's part, however, of people who follow traditional religious practices as they can. It is certainly inappropriate to automatically view one particular religion and its bearers as a threat. These stereotypes are very easy to develop, but it's very short-sighted and erroneous.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U62	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! It was not a question of faith at all, it was a question of radical elements. But here's my second question. After all, the Defence Police Department has identified those who pose a threat to the Muslim brotherhood and, in recent times, perhaps, as is said, the owner of the prayer room Omar Abdullah Alshathri, who goes to Estonia and we do not know with what thoughts they are travelling here. Can we perhaps refuse to issue visas to so-called suspicious people? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U64	Thank you. As Prime Minister, I certainly cannot comment on the specific names or persons you have mentioned. But what I can say is that we have had one case where one person from Estonia, along with his family, went to fight in the ISIS ranks. Estonian security authorities have a complete overview of this story. We have isolated examples that someone is suspected of being more indirect in relation to groups that might be called terrorists. You can be quite sure that the Estonian security authorities will monitor every such sign very closely and very seriously. I believe it is worth trusting Estonian law enforcement bodies when they say that there is no increased risk in Estonia. At the same time, however, we should always be alert enough to take preventive measures so that the risk does not increase in the future. This is what we are trying to do, and you can be sure that Estonian law enforcement and security authorities work very hard every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U65	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U66	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Prime Minister! Of course you have to keep an eye on it. In France, they kept an eye on him, but there was still a terrorist attack. You said that there are a few thousand of these people in Estonia. But the problem is that they're always trying to radicalize them, and out of a few thousand, the one person who blows up the bomb belt could grow up. There is no need for a significant number of people. As I understand what you are saying, the Estonian authorities are not doing much to prevent radicalisers coming here. But that's the question I'm asking. Can you see one connection between the great Islamic community and the growing radical Islamic terrorism? This is already a problem in Western Europe, although Estonia does not yet have a problem. Is that the connection you're admitting?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U67	Thank you. First of all, I cannot agree with your definition in the context of the question of Islamist extremism. You call them all Muslims in Estonia. That is certainly an offensive link for many. The Estonian Muslim community has come to live here mainly during the Soviet era. We have the largest number of Tatars and they are clearly arbitrary in relation to Islamic extremists. In theory, the bearers of other religions could also embrace Islam and radicalize it. Such processes must be monitored. Islam is tolerant in Estonia in any case, just like any religion, there is no question at all. But any radicalism, any criminality, is something that needs to be focused on. I have a request and a suggestion: do not confuse extremism with all religion. It's obviously creating stereotypes that aren't true in the lion's section, you know that well.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U68	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U69	The next question is also for Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U70	Good President! Good Prime Minister! It seems that there is not a clear, far-reaching plan for Estonia's new airline based in Tallinn. Similarly, it seems that it is not quite clear what is being done with the former Estonian Air employees. So far, most of them are still on Estonian Air's payroll and tied to the contract, so they literally struggle with ignorance. Estonian Air's ticket costs for passengers arriving after the closure of Estonian Air were compensated from the government reserve. Doesn't the government plan to pay compensation to Estonian Air's employees from the government reserve as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U71	Thank you. There are laws in Estonia that regulate how a company behaves when it is not possible for the company to pay the redundancy allowance for its employees. In addition, the Commission notes that Estonian Air has not been able to pay any compensation for the costs incurred by Estonian Air as a result of the agreement between Estonian Air and Estonian Air, and that it is not possible to pay all the redundancy payments proposed by Estonian Air's management, as stated in the collective agreement, although I hope that it will still be possible to do so, the compensation mechanisms provided for by law are in place. And the unemployment fund helps to compensate these people just as in all such situations. As regards the recruitment of these people to other airlines, as far as I know, the Nordic Aviation Group, the new Estonian airline, as well as several other airlines, have been interested. It is generally known that there is a very high demand on the market for people with experience in aviation. You can be pretty sure they're not gonna work. However, we must certainly not take such a decision that we automatically transfer the entire workforce and activity from one company to another, because it would be a transfer, to put it in the language of the people, more specifically, illegal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U72	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U73	Thank you for your answer. The working conditions of Nordic Aviation's neighbouring company or subsidiary Nordic Crew Management, which is active in Nordic Aviation, are much worse than those of Estonian Air. Was one part of the plan to form a new company and recruit people on much worse terms? Furthermore, it is very confusing at all, which is the longer-term plan of the Nordic Aviation Group. Looking at business plans, both quota distribution and promotion are relatively low-profit activities, as do outsourcing, etc. What's the long-term plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U74	Thank you. That's the right question. The Nordic Aviation Group's long-term plan is to be an airline based in Tallinn, which ensures direct connections to the main destinations so that people in Estonia can travel as conveniently as possible. At the same time, a positive impact on the Estonian economy would continue. According to the analyses of all experts, including your colleague Maris Lauri, one airline in Tallinn will certainly have an impact on the economy, and this is not small at all. Moreover, the Nordic Aviation Group not only has a long-term plan, but it has also launched its activities very quickly. They have already had more than 10400 passengers yesterday at lunch, 248 flights have been made and 36000 bookings have already been made by the end of March. This shows that the company has started very, very quickly. This is certainly good news and deserves the credit of all of us. With regard to the salaries and social guarantees of specific workers, I would certainly exceed my mandate if I were to take any position here. The state-owned company has not only the need, but also the opportunity to make such offers in order to find good, worthy workers in the labour market, and of course the offers must also correspond to the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U75	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U76	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Doesn't the Head of Government consider that, since the liquidation of Estonian Air came due to the government's misappropriation, misappropriation of investments, the government also bears moral responsibility for the fact that our educated aviation specialists are forced to leave Estonia and we must replace them with a very valuable workforce from the Middle East? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U77	Thank you. I dare to be convinced that there will soon be just as many high-paid, well-qualified and good people jobs in Estonian aviation as there were recently when Estonian Air was able to operate. In order to be prepared for a negative State aid decision concerning Estonian Air, the government has created new companies. These companies, as we have talked about before, have started very quickly. When they are fully employed, there is a need, just as before, for qualified pilots, flight attendants and others. The success of the new company also depends very much on how we feel about it, whether we live up to it, hope for the best, wish for the wind and travel with them, if possible, or try to make every effort to get a 'political point' when the company fails. I think that no one, no political power, has any reason not to go along with this company. Let's hope they succeed, it's in the interests of our society as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U78	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government! Question Time is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U79	Good fellows! Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 8th working week session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen and guests! The Constitutional Commission initiates a draft law amending the Anti-Corruption Act. The draft aims to amend the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act governing the declaration of the interests of an official. The aim is to correct some aspects of the system of declaration of interests implemented in 2014, which have been subject to constructive criticism by those making declarations. Firstly, the requirement to declare units of voluntary funded pension is waived because the obligation to declare these data is not sufficiently justified. Secondly, the minimum amount of the asset and other benefit to be declared is fixed at EUR 4000. According to the current regulation, this threshold is currently linked to the social tax revenue received by the declarant for the last four months, which the declarant must determine for himself each time. The fixed amount will greatly facilitate the execution of the declaration. Thirdly, the period of inclusion of ancillary activities in the declaration is amended. Currently, the declaration presents ancillary activities in the year preceding the declaration. The amendments provide the corresponding data for the year in which the declaration is made and the preceding calendar year. Currently, data on the current state of the entries can be obtained from the commercial register in an automated manner. The compilation of data on completed ancillary activities requires development work and the amendment of the law. The amendment will increase the pre-fulfilment of the declaration and make it more convenient to submit the declaration. Fourthly, the draft repeals the obligation to provide in a declaration information on the social tax revenue received in the year preceding the post of declarant. The obligation to declare the income declared in the tax return and the dividend income received remains. Finally, the draft recognises the particulars of the assets and other advantages granted by the declarant for internal use only. The public interest in donations made shall not outweigh the right of the declarant to family and private life. The amendment protects the right to make donations in private to individuals or organisations based on their own outlook or religious beliefs. The right of access to these data would be left to the supervisory and control authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U81	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Märt Sultsi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U82	Honourable President-in-Office! Colleagues! I'm here again to question the Minister for Education and Science, I don't know, it's the tenth or the fifteenth. But, you know, at least 20 questions have definitely been asked. An inquiry is simple. We all know that the educational landscape has a mess, chaos, no common education policy. We all know there's not enough pay for municipal school teachers. We all know that salary cannot be differentiated because there is no salary. We all know that there will be improvements in the additional budget anyway, that the minimum wage will be raised and that this increase will be placed on the local authorities. Last time, this raise cost the city of Tallinn 10 million euros in the middle of the increase was raised by the Riigikogu, and the city of Tallinn paid for it. We still haven't been able to explain the pay-as-you-go model, I don't know what the pay is calculated on. Looks like it's just some number, that's all. We have never been told what percentage is calculated. The percentage can be calculated from any number, and you all know that you have to divide a smaller number by a larger number, multiply by 100, and you have the percentage that you want. You can also count backwards. As a result, I have several questions, I only read two of them. The question is for Jürgen Ligi. Don't you think that if the Minister of Foreign Affairs answers questions in his field that he doesn't know, it doesn't give the outsider an incompetent impression of the Minister? And the second question. A kindergarten teacher meeting national qualification requirements has not yet been treated as a teacher in general education. What is the reason? Why can't the state pay out the difference between the minimum wage for kindergarten teachers in different counties? A large part of it is paid by the local government and the missing part by the state if the municipal school teacher's minimum wage does not come together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U83	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and one inquiry, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. We're conducting a presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U84	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft Act 64 amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No, I don't. We can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put Bill 64 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 84 parliamentarians in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Draft Act 64 amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U85	We will move on to the second item on the agenda: the third reading of Bill 74 of the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There are no requests, we are going to the final vote. I will put Bill 74 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Bill 74 of the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases initiated by the Government of the Republic and amending other laws has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U86	We will move on to the third item on the agenda: Second reading of the 2016 draft State Budget Act 103 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like the Chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The discussion of the first reading of the draft State Budget Act 2016 initiated by the Government of the Republic took place in the Riigikogu's plenary session on 20 and 21 October. The first reading was closed, the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 4 November. The Commission discussed the draft in preparation for second reading at its meetings on 20, 26, 27 and 29 October. Since it has been some time since then, I will briefly remind my fellow Members of the content of the draft budget. Next year's budget will support economic growth, strengthen national defence and increase social responsibility. The budget is worth EUR 8.9 billion, which is EUR 358 million more than planned for this year. The government's objective is to maintain a structural budget surplus of 0.6% of GDP. The nominal deficit is 0.1% of GDP, which is approximately 25 million euros. Tax policy is based on the principle that the tax burden must be shifted to tax more consumption instead of labour. Estonia will continue with a simple and uniform tax policy. Next year's tax policy changes, I would point out that the tax-free minimum will increase to EUR 170. The overall tax burden as a share of GDP remains at around the same level, or 3%. In order to support economic growth, government investment will be of key importance next year, with investment support in the state budget rising by 22,5% compared to this year and reaching 480 million euros. Growth will also be contributed through the importance of education. In the coming years, the salaries of teachers will rise and the ultimate goal is to raise the teacher's salary to 120% of the average wage in Estonia. A total of EUR 307 million will be allocated to the construction and reconstruction of roads and road maintenance, which is EUR 22 million more than this year. In the course of the procedure of the state budget, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has listened to all ministers of the Government of the Republic to obtain a detailed overview of the budgets of government areas. We met with ministers in part already before the first reading in the large hall, after the second reading, the Committee on Monetary Affairs met with Minister of Foreign Affairs Marina Kaljuranna on 20 October. The questions to him concerned the development of an embassy network, the application for visas, the reduction in the number of ministerial staff, the Estonian-Russian border agreement, the finding of new markets with the help of foreign representatives, the renovation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs house and the perspective of Estonian shipguards in India. On 26 October, Arto Aas, Minister of Public Administration, presented his budget priorities. Questions in the Commission concerned the border road programme, education grants and student homes. Interested in the activities of the State Support Services Centre, state secondary schools, support for school transport, cooperation between the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Finance. The Minister also gave an overview of how the municipal income base has increased. In the year of the crisis, a total of 734 million euros was paid to the municipalities in 2008. Next year, the amount received by the municipalities will be 144 million euros larger, reaching 878 million euros. On 27 October, Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Education and Science, spoke to the Committee on Monetary Affairs about his administrative budget. The discussion clearly concerned the increase in teachers' salaries, the implementation of new state secondary schools and private school law, the education public service offered to refugees, the transfer of activities to the State Support Services Centre, the reduction of the number of employees of the Ministry of Education and Research, the involvement of foreign students in master's studies and the support of universities in general. On the same day we also met representatives of the Tax and Customs Board, with whom we talked about the implementation of the employees' register and the operation of the annex to the VAT return. Both measures have significantly cleaned the tax environment and made the business environment fairer, but on the other hand brought about an increase in tax revenue of approximately EUR 100 million to the state budget. At our meeting on 29 October with Defence Minister Hannes Hanso, we touched on the wage policy of his administration, on the organisation of public procurement, on the procurement of special equipment, on IT investments, on cooperation with allies, as well as on the use of countershopping in the country. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will now present to you the amendments tabled after first reading. By the deadline of 4 November, the members of the Riigikogu and the political groups tabled 37 amendments. Their more precise explanations are given in all the materials on the list of amendments. The Committee on Finance drew up one proposal, which largely consists of technical changes between and within the areas of government of the ministries and clarifications of the wording of the sections of the text. The Commission's amendments include, among other things, the concentration of the ministries' financial and staffing accounts in the State Support Services Centre, the increase in the labour costs of the cultural sector and their budget distribution, the development of the rural development support system required for the PRIA and the transfer of 1.5 million euros within the Ministry, the distribution of the salary growth of the Ministry of Interior between the agencies and the transfer of funds from the Institute of Health Development to implement prevention plans. The amendments received from the political groups of the Riigikogu and members of the Riigikogu covered amounts ranging from EUR 60000 to EUR 21.5 million. I will bring forward the most important proposals here. For example, the National Audit Office wanted to increase its labour costs in order to audit the areas of defence and internal security. Additional R &amp; D funding was proposed. An increase of EUR 6.3 million was proposed for the Education Expenditure Support Fund. The stabilisation reserve was intended to be increased both by the funding of political parties and by the amounts resulting from fines. Four proposals from a total of three political groups and a separate member of the Riigikogu concerned the payment of additional transitional support to the agricultural sector. It was also proposed to increase the percentage of income tax received by local authorities and to support various projects in the non-profit sector. The Committee on Finance ignored the amendments received from the political groups and members of the Riigikogu. I consider it my duty to explain this briefly. First of all, the National Audit Office. Compared to the number of employees of the National Audit Office at the beginning of 2010, the number of employees has increased by 14%, i.e. by 12 persons. Given the size of the work in the audit departments, it is possible to find resources within the existing budget by reorganising the work and setting priorities. As a reminder, the aim at government level is to reduce the number of employees in proportion to the decrease in the number of people of general working age in the country as a whole. The financing of R &amp; D is certainly very important, in no way against it. The competitiveness plan "Estonia 2020" aims to increase R &amp; D investment to 3% of GDP by 2020. Given the current base, it is important to find new ways of increasing the volume of private investment by implementing new forms of cooperation between research and higher education institutions and businesses. As a result of research funding, cooperation between science and the private sector and the transfer of money from the private sector to science is expected. Now in the field of education. As I mentioned, it was proposed to increase these costs. In total, the country will contribute €648.1 million to education next year. In comparison, this year this amount will be EUR 625 million. The teachers' payroll is planned to grow by 4%. The size of each teacher's real salary next year depends on what internal restructuring is being done by the Ministry of Education and how the issue of financing private schools will be resolved. The cost of private schools will be financed by EUR 4.8 million from the Ministry of Education next year and an additional EUR 2.4 million will be placed in reserve. As far as agricultural subsidies are concerned, the European Commission is looking at, and we should also look at, agricultural payments together, i.e. the support provided for in the rural development plan and the direct payments together. The volume of subsidies granted to the sector in the new 2014-2020 programming period will increase by EUR 226 million compared to the current period. And with both this year's budget change and next year's budget, in addition to external support, a further EUR 7.6 million has been allocated to alleviate the crisis. These amounts will be directed to those most in need: the dairy sector and pig farming. The increase in the income tax share of local government is forecast to be 4.4% next year. One proposal was to increase the rate of income tax received by the municipality. The estimated revenue from local government income tax will be EUR 144 million higher in 2016 than in the crisis year 2008. During the same period, for example, the consumer price index has changed by 17%. 144 million euros more over these years means an increase of 20%, in other words the purchasing power of local governments has certainly increased during this period. Now, from the sources of the amendments. There was a variety of them. The sale of the country's liquid fuel supply was recommended for EUR 21.5 million. The proposals to reduce the Government's reserve amounted to 38.1 million euros. The Government of the Republic recommended a reduction of EUR 27.5 million in operating costs, which was also proposed as a source of coverage for certain proposals. In terms of funding for political parties, it was recommended to save EUR 24 million once again, in the form of a cover for a number of proposals. The political parties receive 5.4 million euros from the state budget. The operating costs of the state Chancellery of undefined economic content could be reduced by EUR 2.5 million and the labour and management costs of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications by EUR 1.8 million. The aim was to cancel the investment of EUR 5 million in the Lilleküla football stadium, one of the proposals was not to provide all 5 million, the other to reduce the funding of the stadium by EUR 2 million. Why, according to the Commission, did these sources of cover not fit? First of all, the liquid fuel supply. The State is obliged to ensure a liquid fuel supply of at least 90 days, calculated on the basis of the average daily quantity of net imports of liquid fuels, or at least 61 days, calculated on the basis of the average daily consumption. If the surplus stock were sold, at current prices, it would mean a loss of EUR 2 million for the country. This economically uneconomical transaction cannot, in my view, be approved under any circumstances. It is not possible to cover fixed costs from the reserve of the Government of the Republic, but this proposal was issued in quite a number of positions. The operating amounts of the Government of the Republic also include government reserve, property reform reserve fund and grants to local governments to carry out state tasks. These appropriations shall be assigned to a specific purpose. It was also a place where people wanted to cut their money. But that would have meant, for example, that education costs should have been reduced. As I said, political party funding was foreseen for a total of EUR 23.9 million. The representative of the group concerned explained in the committee that these proposals would have been withdrawn if some of the proposals had been supported. It was proposed that 2.7 million euros of public money should be channelled from the state budget into a different area from that for political parties. The funding of political parties from the budget has not increased; for eight years this amount has been the same. Although somewhere there's a rumor that it's bloated, it's not true. Only Latvia, Cyprus and Malta do not use the state funding of political parties from the countries of the European Union. It's just background information. As a source of cover, operating costs of 4.6 million were also offered to the State Chancellery for the undefined economic content. This includes, for example, the costs of the 'Estonian Republic 100', the costs of the Presidency of the European Union and the other costs of the State Chancellery. This would have meant tightening up in some projects. A reduction of 1.8 million in labour costs in the Ministry of Economic Affairs would have meant that some activities and tasks would have been abandoned. At the time, the initiator of the proposal did not have a good idea where the money could be taken from. This would be an overview of the amendments proposed and their sources of coverage and the reasons why the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not support them. The Commission supported one of the proposals, the content of which I described at the beginning. I would like to thank all the members of the government, the relevant officials of the ministries and the Riigikogu, the political groups of the Riigikogu and the members of the Riigikogu who have contributed to the budget debates in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and also contribute to this Chamber of the Riigikogu during the second reading and the third reading. In summary, the Committee on Monetary Affairs' consensual proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft and set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5 p.m. on 25 November. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U88	Thank you, good waitress, for a thorough presentation. However, there are some questions. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Inflation for 2016 is projected at around 2.8% in the budget. How is such a figure found when, according to the explanatory memorandum, inflation in the first half of the year is planned with a negative sign? Is the average for this year, or 2.8%, an inflation rate of 6% in the second half of the year? What unexpected event could hit us in the summer, or what has resulted in such high inflation for the next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U90	Thank you. One of the functions of the European central banks is to ensure this 2% inflation rate in all countries, which is considered as the norm. Inflation next year will certainly be affected by the rise in excise duties on tobacco and alcohol as well as by the increase in excise duties on fuel. It's kind of a plus-sided thing. You refer to some extraordinary rise in inflation in the second half of the year, but I do not have any data on it. I rely on the information of the Ministry of Finance, as do the state budget producers. The macroeconomic effects are primarily assessed by the Ministry of Finance and they have foreseen such inflation. Of course, the truth will be found later. In addition to the Ministry of Finance, our inflation is assessed by Eesti Pank and the European Commission. They all have their visions. Somewhere, some influence is judged to be greater, the other impact to be smaller, and in the end, we are still wise afterwards on this issue as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U91	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The revenue side of this budget is planned to receive EUR 16.5 million in fine money. And the fines are going up. Does the Commission have any idea how much money will be received in addition to the increase in fines? At the moment, this increase in the budget is not reflected, as I understand it. Will you in future accept the idea expressed in the Free Party's amendment that the implementation of the state budget with the fine money is not right and should be directed towards the stabilisation reserve?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U93	Thank you. Point 1. The draft budget does not reflect the increase in daily penalty rates. That is what I said in the Commission, and this assurance also exists from the Ministry of Finance. Point 2. According to my information, the bill on the increase in the daily penalty rate will reach the Riigikogu proceedings in the coming month, in any case the government will deal with it. And this draft does not go to the Committee on Monetary Affairs because it should be a matter of the Committee on Legal Affairs. What will be the effect of the rise in fines? This increase has not yet been legalised and even the draft is not in the Riigikogu's proceedings, so the additional money received in budgetary terms must be taken as an additional receipt. Once the draft has been adopted by the Riigikogu and new fines have been imposed, we will see what impact will be on the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U94	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. In point 26 of the Estonian Centre Party, the Group proposed to increase the amount allocated to local governments by 15.1 million euros, or 0.2%, as a result of the increase in income tax, but you confirm that income tax will increase anyway. You therefore do not support this proposal. I quote from the explanatory memorandum: 'Considering the great regional differences and in order to prevent it from increasing, it is more reasonable to give priority to the Equalisation Fund when increasing the income base of local governments. ' Has the coalition discussed when, how, and how much to increase the fine-tuning fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U96	Thank you. The draft state budget does not provide for an increase in the percentage of income tax allocated to local governments or an increase in the equalisation fund. This debate is certainly ahead of the government, and hopefully they will come to some understanding of increasing the equalisation fund. As you rightly pointed out, the initiator in the Commission also justified the failure to allocate a higher percentage of income tax to local governments by making it more appropriate to use the Equalisation Fund. The government will certainly discuss this thoroughly and we will discuss it thoroughly. That's how it works in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U97	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U98	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! The population of all counties is declining, except for Harjumaa. What state budget measures could make this negative process more positive? Can you bring anything up?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U99	Thank you. Firstly, as I mentioned twice, the amounts received by local authorities are 20% higher than in 2008. 878 million euros will be the amount that will go to the municipalities next year. This is a point one and it will certainly help all municipalities, including Harjumaa. But your question was more about how to help everyone else more. Secondly, infrastructure investments, road construction are important. This is the most linear link: good connections within Estonia also help people to get to work and return. Bus connections, ferry connections, all these state-subsidised routes will help people to live in remote areas, somewhere in the farthest corner of Estonia. Such measures to improve the lives of local governments, both directly and through the top of the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U100	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U101	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, As far as I know, I ask the person who knows sport and loves sport how you will see further support for top sports by the Estonian state. My amendment to further support Estonia's top sport at the expense of party funding was voted down in the committee. It is no longer possible for you to support the top sport more strongly, as in the old days, via the Tallinn Port Council. What path do you think will be left for us to support Estonia's top sport in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U102	Thank you. The sport part is also enthusiasts and top sport is not possible without support for youth sport, which is dealt with daily by the Ministry of Culture on the basis of clear rules. For each sport, the number of amateurs, including young athletes, is important. This is one of the principles of how sport is financed. More specifically, the top sport is funded by the Estonian Olympic Committee. Your proposal concerned the allocation of additional funds to the Olympic Committee, and one of the reasons, if I remember correctly, was that money is needed to travel to the Olympic Games next year. This is an important event, but stable, consistent funding is certainly more important. This is what Estonian sport needs, as well as youth sport, adult enthusiasts and top sports. If you look back at the budget debates in the Riigikogu, my memory shows that the previous composition of the Estonian Olympic Committee received additional support. Proposals between second and third readings can be made again, and it will probably be clear to what extent and whether the Olympic Committee will be further supported at all. At the same time, I think that stable and long-term funding for top sport is certainly the subject of discussion for the Riigikogu, not only the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but also the Committee on Culture, whose topics include funding for sport. They have put forward suggestions as to how they would see it. The problems with this one amendment will not be solved, but the proposals that the Estonian Olympic Committee has put on the table will certainly be worth discussing and hopefully the stable long-term funding of top sports will be solved by the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U103	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U104	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Mr. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! I actually hoped that the coalition would be more constructive and would come up against some of the opposition's proposals. Let us be honest, the Centre Party made very few proposals and these were very constructive and also well-founded proposals. I come to the same farmers' support, for example, and there is a basis for paying them. The National Audit Office said that 35 million dollars of liquid fuel supply is over, and the claim that the state loses 2 million dollars by selling it is wrong. In fact, we also found in the Commission that the savings fee must be deducted from it, in fact the state would lose EUR 0.5 million. If we add these amounts on an annual basis, this amount of money will not be significant at all. I am very sad that everyone understands that a farmer needs to be supported and that we would also support competitiveness and jobs, but the Commission and the coalition did not accept it. Comment a little on that!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U105	Thank you. A good colleague from the Committee on Monetary Affairs! This deposit fee, it's the "risk mitigation" price. You can't do that calculation! If you sell the surplus stock, the country will suffer EUR 2 million. I think it's a lot of money. You can't do that deduction from there. The reserve is designed to mitigate risks. And EUR 2 million to get damage from this sale, I don't think it's a sensible activity. As regards the additional support for agriculture, which is covered by the proposed sale of excess fuel supply, I have listed in my report the additional measures that the government has envisaged in the draft budget for 2016. This money is EUR 7.6 million. Under the new seven-year budgetary perspective, the sector will receive additional funding of more than EUR 200 million. These things need to be viewed in a complex way. In fact, the concerns of the sectors currently in crisis, both milk producers and pig farmers, will be addressed. In the long term, more than EUR 200 million of EU money is a relatively large increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U106	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The faction of the Free Party has proposed to direct 5 million euros for the construction of the concert hall of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre for the construction of Lilleküla Stadium. We urgently need this concert hall when the year 2018 arrives. In addition, the Riigikogu's decision since 1996 is behind the construction of the hall. Why did the Committee on Monetary Affairs not support the construction of the hall that was extremely necessary for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U108	Thank you. Firstly, the decision of the Riigikogu at the time, to which you refer, provided, among other things, for the construction of ERM, which will be completed next year. If I am not mistaken now, it will cost EUR 80 million. A big investment, a really big object! Secondly, confronting two objects is putting decision-makers in an extremely difficult position. One loves sports, the other loves singing, one does not exclude the other. There is no telling the truth in any political group that one thing to spend money on is right and the other one is not. Both are often needed, and so is now. I think that the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs are certainly not opposed to the construction of the Hall of the Academy of Music and Theatre. At least in my name, I assure you. But there are some choices that need to be made. The uncomfortable choice is also in front of everyone in this hall today, and it must be decided that one object is more important than the other. Of course, however, each group has the right to propose amendments. And I certainly do not conclude that the Committee on Monetary Affairs voted against the construction of the new hall of the Academy of Music and Theatre in principle. We have to make choices because we have financial limits ahead of us. And you said in the committee that the Academy of Music and Theatre is planning to apply for money from UCITS. I don't know where this is going, but this process is supposed to be in the process of filing documents at the beginning of next year. I think in the run, this question will be resolved, but not by contrasting these two objects.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U109	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U110	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. In the introductory part of your presentation, you mentioned three European countries that do not financially support political parties: Cyprus, Malta and Latvia. Today is Latvia's Independence Day and, in this light, this claim is particularly embarrassing in its error. Here's my question. How do we have to understand this: did your language wrong and you think of another country instead of Latvia, or do you just not know how this is organised in Latvia, or did you knowingly lie to the Chamber of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U111	Thank you. First of all, I certainly did not deliberately lie to the Riigikogu Hall. This information about Latvia is based on data from the Ministry of Finance. If you have other data and this information is not accurate, it is good that this debate was clarified. But I certainly and the Ministry of Finance did not want to share false information either in the Chamber of the Riigikogu or in the public. Let's get this straight and work it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U112	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U113	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. If you look at this budget, what do you see: it brings us closer to what purpose? The Prime Minister has mentioned that we are going to be a new Nordic. If the Prime Minister thinks so, then the budget should somehow reflect that we will become a new Nordic country. What line in the budget brings us closer to this goal?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U114	Thank you. The priorities of this budget are formulated by the government, but every faction of the Riigikogu can and wants to formulate them in its own way, ensuring the security of the Estonian state, promoting economic growth and responsible policy also in the long term. The factions of the Riigikogu obviously have no major differences of opinion regarding the increase in defence costs. As far as promoting economic growth is concerned, the questions as to whether our tax burden should decrease, whether we should support companies by one measure or another, in order to encourage exports, so that Estonian companies produce goods with higher value added, are all options. One of the aims of this coalition and the current government is to reduce labour taxes, which should make our economic environment more attractive. It is also one measure on the road towards the Nordic countries you referred to, just as the Prime Minister has formulated our objective. However, there are still steps to be taken in this budget. In the Nordic countries, people could live happily and prosperously, being free in their choices. After all, all this goes back to people's livelihoods, quality of life, and opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U115	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U116	Thank you, good manager. Mr President of the Commission. I believe that we share the same view: it is not always possible to rely on the logic of the so-called Excel table that each result is guaranteed by a single incentive. Continuing on this Nordic issue, I am concerned about one thing. In the Nordic countries, it is claimed that national culture is also a national attribute, that national sciences, including the history of the country, are also a national attribute. Our budget for research funding is decreasing and it is clear that the national sciences have been a forgotten child before. I still have a few seconds to say: to a large extent, our fear of refugees and of any migrants is due to the weak state of our national culture. We fear that strangers will prevail over us, and if we continue this provincial and not state policy, that fear will grow. Was it also mentioned in the Commission that research funding should not be cut down and that there are also national sciences?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U117	Thank you. We were talking about funding science. One of the proposals was made by the Free Party Group. Perhaps there were others, but one proposal was certainly one that would increase the funding for science. Looking at this budget, it seemed that the share of national and external resources would be changing next year. The contribution of the state budget is increasing compared to the European Union's resources. This trend should continue. The allocation of R &amp; D funds within the sector was not discussed in detail by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I believe that such a debate will be much more comprehensive and comprehensive in the Committee on Culture. Maybe your view of Excel is a little too narrow. As you yourself said, if the Committee on Monetary Affairs is considering any proposals, it must always see if there is money to implement them. I believe that we could have this debate in the future, in cooperation with the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U118	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U119	Thank you. Mr President of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The 2015 budget is EUR 8.6 billion, while the 2016 budget is EUR 8.9 billion. This means that the difference is about EUR 300 million. The increase is practically due to the fact that we have new excise duties, state fees, fines, etc. in place next year. In essence, we take this money from the pockets of people living in Estonia. My question is how you assess the possibilities of our economic sector to support the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U120	Thank you. I would point out once again that the increase in the daily penalty rate and the possible additional money from it are not planned for the budget. This bill and this debate are still ahead of us. Just to be clear. Let's see what taxes are made up of the state budget and what taxes are rising compared to 2015 and 2016. We can see that, in a situation where unemployment is around 5%, social tax and VAT are much better. One of the reasons for better VAT receipts is, as I referred to earlier, keeping a register of employees from last year, but also declaring 1000-euro invoices. These are 'organic growths' that come purely from a) a better tax environment and b) the fact that we have jobs and people consume. This is the so-called organic money coming from the economy to the state budget. And what can we do? The country can boost the economy through investment. The volume of investments granted by the State will be EUR 480 million next year. This money comes back to the state budget through taxes. These are the choices that the state can make. And if you ask me which taxes are coming well, I already said: social tax, VAT and excise duties. The latter, even in spite of their rise. If we take excise duties on alcohol and tobacco, the forecasts show that they will be more than this year next year. This is the situation, and these are the tax revenues under which the state budget has to be put to the end in order to be balanced and sustainable for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U121	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U122	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Remo! The question is: how much money is meant to be allocated to local governments to align the salaries of kindergarten teachers with those of municipal school teachers?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U123	Thank you. This is not a step in the draft state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U124	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U125	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! We are facing a major dilemma in our country: whether to support small and medium-sized enterprises or large enterprises. And here we need to consider very carefully how we can create more jobs, harness more people. Supporting small and medium-sized enterprises is, in my opinion, the way to Europe; supporting large enterprises is stagnation. Can you specify in terms of the 2016 budget, which is the preference of the government coalition and what government measures are? I am not waiting here for tax-political answers that will not help much on either side.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U126	Thank you. First of all, I would not be in any way opposed to large companies and small businesses. If a small enterprise develops into a large enterprise, then we should only have the pleasure of doing so. The state supports companies in both categories through EAS, and there are additional guarantees through KredEx. You didn't want to hear about tax policy, but tax policy also has an important role to play in making investment decisions and starting a business. In the perspective, the government plans to reduce social tax and increase the tax-free minimum to 205 euros per month. Of course, in view of the objective that the tax environment in Estonia is attractive, perhaps this percentage lower tax is not an influence on the final decision. On behalf of the Reform Party, however, I can say that we certainly want to reduce the payment of labour even more in a five-to-seven-year perspective.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U127	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U128	Mr President of the Commission. When you answered Andres Herkel's question, you spoke about the daily penalty rates. I have a feeling you've lost something. We get the daily penalty rate if we divide the person's monthly income by the number of dates. For example, if a person earns EUR 3000 per month, the daily rate is EUR 100, and if he earns EUR 900 per month, the daily rate is EUR 30. That's the point. I can't imagine how some kind of legislative amendment could change these things. Specific daily rates are outside the scope of the law. Didn't you confuse the fine unit used for traffic fines, for example, with the amount of EUR 4 at the moment?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U129	Thank you. Yeah, you're right, fine unit rate is what I meant. And this bill, to which I also referred, concerns an increase in the fine unit rate. This is not included in the budget. That's a very good point.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U130	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U131	Mr. President! Honourable speaker! Defence is the priority of the current coalition. However, everything about budget support in schools as a elective for national defence teaching and the acquisition of outfits from youth organisations of the Defence League did not even find a mention in your presentation. The Commission also addressed this issue without any further deliberation and superficiality. Why? This concerns the protection of our country in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U132	Thank you. I do not agree that the Committee on Monetary Affairs dealt superficially with the amendments. We discussed 37 amendments for four and a half hours. I deliberately drew up the agenda in such a way that there was no time for the end, so that we did not have any time frames for revising the amendments. I think we discussed everything in substance. And we will do so today and also between second and third readings. But, coming to your specific proposal, I say that the Defence League is scheduled to receive some EUR 34 million in the 2016 budget. Growth compared to 2014, for example, is EUR 3.5 million. As you will probably remember, that is what I referred to, and that was what the representatives of the government referred to. Your proposal was to allocate an additional 2.2 million if we specifically talk about this amendment. You can always say that money is still missing. Choices need to be made somewhere, there is an overall picture, somewhere there are sectoral decisions. I think that a sectoral decision can also be a good response to your proposal. If you propose to make this change again and to channel the money there, we will discuss it again. However, I assure you that the Committee on Monetary Affairs takes all the proposals very seriously and we are certainly not jumping over them, but we are always asking for the opinion of the Ministry and other specialists when making one or another financing decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U133	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U134	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This year, the Equalisation and Support Fund has been allocated EUR 440000 to local authorities for the provision of social services and social benefits. It's for all the municipalities for a year. That's a very small amount. Please tell me how your protective draft will help local authorities to carry out the tasks assigned to them by law and to provide the necessary services to these people! Is there good news for local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U135	The good news to local authorities was already in the previous responses. Firstly, municipal budgets are increasing. Secondly, we did not discuss in that detail the possible increase in the subsidies you referred to. However, if you give an example of income support, it will grow from EUR 90 to EUR 130 next year. It's quite remarkable growth. However, local authorities can certainly decide, within their own budget, to pay additional grants if they see that people need them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U136	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! I have this question that for the third year now, the reform party government has not paid farmers transitional support. In total, it already amounts to around EUR 90 million. It's basically a country debt to farmers. Why didn't you provide farmers with transitional support in this year's budget to help them? How big should the crisis be to bring reform party government to the aid of farmers?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U138	Thank you. Of course, the amount of subsidies that have not been paid can come together by anyone, which is not paid out by the state! In dreams, he could pay anything. If we start discussing this, the 90 million you're referring to is change. Actually, it's probably hundreds of millions. But, as I said before, for sectors in crisis, these are pig farming and the dairy industry is set at EUR 3 million this year, next year at 4.6 million. This is clearly the focus of the support that we are about to vote on in this year's budget change. The draft budget foresees an additional 4.6 million, in addition, the government has allocated a little less than EUR 2 million to purchase specific canned products from the reserve. So decisions to support farmers have already been taken and are being made in the current situation. Support for agriculture should also be seen in the context of the investments foreseen in the rural development plan. Over 200 million more money will go there over the next seven years. So you should still look at everything as a whole. As I said, the government has responded quickly enough to the concerns of the sectors currently in crisis and has foreseen additional resources for them. For its part, the European Union will add 7.6 million to the EUR 7.6 million already mentioned. And that 7.6 million from Europe didn't just come. If you take per capita, the 7.6 million allocated to Estonia is a very good result compared to other countries, which the Minister of Rural Affairs fought out to stand up for Estonian farmers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U139	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U140	Thank you. Good waitress! I recall that in 1996, when the Reform Party was also involved in forming a coalition, a decision was taken on three objects. In addition to ERM and the music academy's concert hall, this also concerned Kumu, which is already ready. Now you're saying that the Free Party is trying to counter the football stadium and the music academy that was decided on a long time ago. It now seems that the object of the football stadium, as such, has come to the agenda from the Prime Minister's personal interest, not from the proposal of the government and also from the Riigikogu. What are we still talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U141	Thank you. We are talking about the 2016 state budget. If you refer to the objects affected by the decision of the Riigikogu in 1996, yes, it is true: Kumu is ready and ERM is almost finished. Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, let's say, is in the process. As far as sports objects are concerned, the Ministry of Culture, who is familiar with the need for sports infrastructure objects, has said that Estonia would definitely need a swimming pool in full dimensions. It is also necessary to develop the Tehvandi Sports Centre for a multifunctional exercise and sport site, which can be used not by all but by the enthusiasts of very many areas. Thirdly, we need a so-called national stadium. The additional investment of the Lilleküla stadium is not meant for just one game. This one game is just an extra motivator, or whatever you call it, for the development of the stadium. In order for such an important game to be played in Estonia, a lot of money must inevitably be spent. But that doesn't mean this game is the only one. This object remains, the stadium will be fixed once and for all. This will continue to create opportunities for Estonia to attract large international competitions, with indirect revenues due to tourists arriving in Estonia. In the long term, it is a useful decision for Estonia as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U142	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I would still argue that there was no substantive discussion in the debate on the amendments we have proposed. It was only discussed that the source of the cover was inappropriate, but it was not discussed about the ideas that were offered. In principle, some ideas could have been accepted and said that we would have covered it differently, not from this place, as originally proposed. At the moment, however, the impression remains that the opposition's proposals are in principle not supported. The wrong guy can't do the right thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U144	Thank you. I think that was a sentence with a point, but I'm still commenting. I reaffirm that there was a substantive debate. If you propose to the Committee on Monetary Affairs that the Commission should not assess the sustainability of the source of cover in its decision-making, the substance of the cover, I will disagree with you. We must assess this as a whole. Whoever makes the proposal can certainly not be the main argument for supporting or not supporting the proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U145	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U146	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You said a few minutes ago that there was a whole picture somewhere. Well, maybe it is, but in that case, the whole picture is so gray, flat and plain that it hasn't looked good in this hall. We have not noticed the existence of this whole picture. Minister Ligi has also expressed dissatisfaction with the government's policy to give everything a little, not to set priorities. There are several relatively young people in your government, there are relatively young people in your political groups, why is the current coalition so cowardly and undecided in setting priorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U147	Thank you. There is no complaining about the lack of estimates on this issue. And a member of the Riigikogu can evaluate the budget. Let me give you an example. You referred to Minister Ligi. Minister Ligi aims to raise teachers' salaries to 120% of the Estonian average. If this is not a specific objective, what else is it? In four years he wants to do so, and in my opinion this is one example that your complaint that the government does not set specific objectives or priorities or that there is something confusing is unfounded. This is an example of the direction in which the Minister of Education and Science and the whole government operates.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U148	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U149	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! There's no way I want to contrast sports and musical culture. I'm a really big football fan, and I respect those guys, and I know what they're doing. In some ways, however, the stories are confusing, given what is currently happening in the International Football Federation and what is happening in Europe. But this addition to the stadium is a relatively new project. The project was pre-existing, of course, but it's still a relatively new thing. The same decision concerning the hall of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre was made in 1996. This hall is necessary for a lot of people to learn, to perform concerts as well as any other musical performances. Why has this construction been so long? Why isn't the EAMT Hall ready?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U150	Thank you. I cannot be held responsible for the decisions made in 1996. I can refer to what's happened since then. We've already had a debate about this once. Kumu is ready. The ERM will soon be completed and the Hall of Music and Theatre Academy will hopefully be completed. Don't give me that view that I'm against building a music academy hall. But inevitably we must decide at some point what we will do this year, what we will do next year, what the financial opportunities will be. Inevitably, this contrast between two objects creates an awkward situation. We do not want to get to a stalemate where one says that the Hall of Music and Theatre Academy is the most urgent, and the other says that it is the football stadium that is urgently needed. I believe that both are needed by Estonia. The current draft budget provides for an additional EUR 5 million to be invested in the Lilleküla football stadium. To this end, it is necessary to apply for a State aid authorisation. There are currently negotiations between the Ministry of Culture and the Football Association to ensure that this financing scheme is correct. This means, among other things, that the stadium must be open for at least 20% of the time to other clubs wishing to carry out their own training or games there. Such a requirement is also in the application for State aid. But it's getting too detailed. As regards the corruption scandal in FIFA, I asked the leaders of the football union whether this would affect the possible decision to bring a particular UEFA Super Cup game to Lilleküla Stadium in Estonia. The answer was that there is work going on in the organisation to ensure that this game is held in Tallinn. Several visits have already been made to Tallinn, the lighting and technical background of the stadium have been reviewed. So we have to consider this new potential investment. There is currently no other candidate city or candidate country where this particular game could be played. That's what the football alliance gave me. As I said, I came up with the exact same question you referred to, given the unpleasant events in FIFA. Does this affect our decision? The short answer is that it does not initially.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U151	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U152	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! In response to the question of transitional support, you caused a little confusion by talking about one-off crisis aid support, 3 million this year, 4.6 million next year. But that's a whole different thing. The question was about transitional payments, for a total of 21 million. Was the Commission discussing why, for several years now, including next year, transitional payments have been refused to farmers?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U153	Thank you. We discussed it, of course we discussed it. We have dealt with this topic for hours in the framework of another draft Riigikogu decision. Or it was an offer to the government, I don't remember. Today, the government has been determined to support the sectors most affected by the crisis, i.e. the dairy industry and pig farming, with a total of €7.6 million in this year's budget and next year's budget. Over EUR 200 million more money will be channelled to the sector through the Rural Development Plan during the new budget period. I repeat myself, but this debate must not be forgotten. It's as if it's natural enough not to talk about it anymore. But it's not some kind of change, and it didn't just come out of the sky. It is understandable that if other countries support their farmers, the Estonian state must also find certain ways to do so. I dare say that in the current crisis, the country has been able to react very quickly and take the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U154	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Holsmer! You rejected all of the opposition's proposals, but listening to your answers gives the impression that some of you would not have been happy to reject. Now, let's leave the shields out of it. I understand that large parties, including your coalition partners, need to pay off campaign debts. But please tell us, in conclusion, what needs of money highlighted by the opposition you consider reasonable and reasonable, and which would you like to return to as chairman of the committee before the third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U156	Thank you. I assume you have read my support for some of your proposals on the example of building a Hall of the Academy of Music and Theatre, which I have mentioned. Our decision really wasn't a response to a particular object, it was just a choice between two objects put before us. I am certainly not going to tell any political group in advance what proposals they may or may not make. The deadline for amendments is 25 November at 15:00, and I encourage all the political groups to make proposals, so we can discuss them again in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I hope that we will find a balance between opportunities and wishes and, at third reading, I can refer here to the proposals that were supported by the Commission. I believe that we will find a solution where all the political groups have been able to contribute to the budget. However, what concrete proposal could be supported will be found at the forthcoming meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U157	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U158	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I come back like a half-wit to the transitional payments. The countrymen it concerns are saying about what they say in this hall, that they're confusing and bullshit. And I'm asking you how you've gotten there. Is the question that the current Minister for Rural Affairs is too powerless, does not share the punch and can't stand up for farmers, or is farmers just stupid, doesn't realize that they're being held up for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U159	Thank you. I don't think the Minister for Rural Affairs is powerless. I think that the money that he has issued in Europe to alleviate the current crisis is worth recognising, in fact, EUR 7.6 million. In addition to the members of the coalition groups, opposition ambassadors could also recognise this. And, as I have already said several times, this additional support from the European Union was supported by the government for its part by 7.6 million. So in the current crisis situation, we are talking about a total of EUR 15.2 million in additional money for pig farming and the dairy industry.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U160	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U161	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In the European Union, EUR 500 million of emergency support was distributed to farmers across the Union. Estonia also became part of it, but not much. So I do not believe that this is the result of the insane efforts of the Estonian Government and especially the Minister for Rural Affairs. It is simply the money that was distributed in the European Union. As the Estonian Government has found an additional budget, it is, of course, commendable, but it is not a question of anything other than sustainable competitiveness, and this lasting competitiveness can only be guaranteed by permanent subsidisation, given how disadvantaged we are in the competitive environment, both in terms of weather and markets. Here's my question. Are the proposals that opposition parties have made to change the budget in order to support farmers and pay them transitional support firmly assigned to the trash bin, or are there hopes that they will reach the discussion table?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U162	Thank you. The Minister for Rural Affairs also applied to the Government for additional transitional payments. So far, the government has not taken this into account. As regards the amendments proposed by the political groups and delegates of the Riigikogu, I spoke about the reasons for their rejection, which in many ways stem from the sources of cover. We cannot cover permanent costs with one-off sources of cover. The Central Party Group has proposed to sell the liquid fuel supply, with a direct economic loss to the State of EUR 2 million. Well, there's no way my hand will stand up to this proposal. These are the reasons why the Committee on Monetary Affairs could not approve support for the sector you mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U163	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Aadu Black, speaker, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U164	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I want to say a few words about our fiscal policy at all. It's always been said that we've become more masterful, and I have to admit, in an accountant sense, I think we've gotten more masterful. At the same time, we have distanced ourselves from politics and by making precise budgets, we sometimes do not understand what is behind it. I dare say we have an illusory country. For the last ten years, I've seen that we're constantly overreacting. We live in an imaginary world, and it also results in a series of crises. We talk a lot about education, teachers, teachers' salaries. It's a programmed unsolvable triangle. The thing is, trying to show, trying to be somewhere ahead of any table, we've made promises that are clearly out of our league. We don't have the power to fill them, we don't have the resources. And then the 'Who's in the garden? ' game: the local government blames the government, the government's local authorities, and all together anyone else who doesn't know how to manage. The point is that we are talking about teachers' salaries and trying to overcome this problem by moving tags from one article to another and being upset that some people are not going to play along. At the same time, I stress, the whole area of education is at the level of an orphan. If our forefathers had taken the same view of education, Estonia would not exist. Teachers are the salt of the earth, but understand, they're educational prolerate today. And if we think that this will bring Estonia out of the crisis, then we will be great naives. About the same situation we have in science. I was shocked to discover that every time the Prime Minister talks about research and development, there is a desire to applaud, because we are talking about research-intensive production, a research-intensive economy. But when we get to the budget, the same people who used to be in favour of the development of science applauded the plans and said that they were good, they say, "Where do you take that money? " Politics is overshadowed by accounting intelligence, and in fact, we are all a little sympathetic in this. True, coalition more than opposition. We have criticised southern Europe a lot. We have spoken about them, well, something that is called'reheap' in Estonia, but we have also criticised when a country on the Mediterranean Sea is trying to get money from the European Union, but not spending it for what it is intended for. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that we in Europe are being said the same thing about the funding of our science? It is said that for years, Estonia has received euro money for the restructuring, modernisation of science, but the Estonian state has made a smooth use of this money to patch budget holes. Today, we heard from the Chairman of the Monetary Commission that the share of the Estonian state's contribution to the funding of science is about to increase. But, dear friends, that is why it is going to increase because European Union money has been spent on something else. It is expected that a complete collapse in research funding will take place in 2020. So we're gonna be here for a few more years if we increase something here. As a member of the Committee on Long-Term Culture, I can say that our education and research policy has for years had to pull the blanket off each other. This is particularly the case with science. It's been said that someone had a tremendous idea that we had to go into space. Some say that all we have to do is develop science, precision. It is forgotten that the atom will remain an atom, be it in Paris, Beijing or Brussels. There is no Purtse, Puka, or Puurmani atom. The European Research Fund will develop European research projects by promoting integration. Not every village has to explore its own atom. We have not dealt with this either, because we have needed this money to patch up our budget holes. In the permanence of orphanage, the Estonian state has national sciences. We always remember them when they need to be used as an argument. We are saying that people who have traveled abroad are coming back to us because they love our national culture. But have you thought that our national culture and national sciences are largely worn by a foreign skirt? I can say that about history. The history of Estonia, which must be the pillars of national identity, who says that history does not shape our national identity? I've borrowed it from a stranger. We've got strange paradigms going, and we've come to sewing a place for a stranger's skirt, then another place between the other place and the two. We believe that this will create our national identity, and we will borrow together pieces from our neighbours, which have been written about Estonia's history. Someone reads Russian literature and someone in German, one found a Swedish book and finally the Finnish wrote Estonian history. We've been talking about security risks. People who are well aware of national security issues know that it is not the case that one authority has to stand up for national security and others are watching. We are afraid of migrants, and we must be afraid. Above all, because we are not ready. Our own culture is narrow, undeveloped, forgotten. If there's some powerful, compact current on it, it's gonna be hard for us. It must therefore not be forgotten that one of the pillars of our national identity is national culture, national sciences and education and culture as a whole. Without them, we'll be defenseless inside. I also want to say that some say that the national sciences exist somehow in themselves and maybe they don't want money. You know, I'll give you one example of history in my specialty. History is also exactly the weapon of ideological struggle. And right now, in some discussions with some neighbouring countries, we say the only answer: 'We don't believe that. 'Cause we can't answer anything else. Where's the secret policy? Where are our important documents? They have ruled us in national archives, and if anyone thinks that they can go there free of charge to investigate them, it is not right. Finally, I would like to address separately my fellow Members, who belong to the political group of the party that calls itself national and conservative, and to the educational groups. It is time to talk about the content of education and science, not just wave with slogans. Education and science have content when there is money to develop them. And I have been enormously unhappy when I have had to defend national conservative ideology in large discussions as a middle party, and some leading figure in a national and conservative party has said on the side what you have to say if, in 20 years' time, our children will all speak English and they will like it. It's a thinkin' place! Let us support in the budget that education and culture do not become orphans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U165	Thank you. Erki Savisaar, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U166	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The basic requirement of the state budget is its reality. There is no point in making an impossible budget. The reality of revenue is the most important criterion of reality. Unfortunately, there are major gaps and contradictions here. The budget has to increase by EUR 358 million in 2016, i.e. by 4.2%. We consider that EUR 181 million will be reduced. Thus, the increase in the remaining revenue must be 539 million, i.e. at least 6,3%, but it is much higher than 4.2. There are two main options for budget revenue growth: an increase in gross product or an increase in tax receipts, in particular by increasing tax rates. The budget foresees a growth of 2.6% in GDP in 2016. Only 1.7% is expected to grow this year. In view of the statement in the budget explanatory memorandum that exports are poor and that important partners such as Finland and Russia cannot, of course, be relied on for different reasons, GDP growth could be driven by growth in domestic consumption. Unfortunately, the explanatory memorandum repeatedly emphasises that this development engine will slow down in the new year. It is unclear where will GDP increase faster than this year? Apparently, the revenue side of the budget has not reflected a number of recent events, such as the impact of a swine plague. Of course, inflation also fills the budget. High inflation increases prices, so more VAT is collected. At the moment, due to the fall in oil prices, inflation is even less marked than in recent data, at 0.7%. How is it expected to grow to 2 to 2.8% in the new year? Moreover, the budget explanatory memorandum confirms that there is no inflation in substance in the first half of 2016. These numbers don't add up. And it's not just these numbers that add up. If real GDP growth is 2.6% and inflation is 2%, how can nominal GDP growth be 5.5%? In essence, this 5,5% shows that inflation is planned at 2.8%, while the standard of living is calculated at 2% everywhere. Thus, the increase in the standard of living cannot be regarded as correct. And once again, where does 2.8% come from when the planned negative-signed number is the inflation rate for the first half of 2016? Is inflation 6% for the second half of the year to reach the average? The average 2.8 has to come out. When these complex discussions are summed up by simple sentences, the tragic threads and the recurring improvements in the budget are shrouded. The result doesn't make sense, different passages speak against each other. There is, of course, another way to increase revenue: to increase the tax burden. The changes were made before Midsummer Day and now many people have forgotten that the tax burden on Estonia will increase in the new year and not decrease. The budget had to show this increase of 0.2%. This was really done from the end of the mocha, because the perceived growth is considerably higher. However, even in view of this increase in the tax burden, the figures still do not match. The increase in nominal wages has been shown to be 4.5%, with an increase in VAT of 7.1%. So what kind of money are people gonna buy more? Social tax cuts have been discussed a lot, but social tax receipts have to increase by as much as 4.8%, which is more than the average wage. The number of employees is expected to fall by nearly 4000. On this basis, too, the expected rate of increase in the income of social tax is more than questionable. A considerable increase in excise duty of €80 million is expected in the new year, an increase of 9.1%. The expected increase in the income of excise duty on tobacco is 2.2%, which seems to be a fairly logical figure, compared with 19.9% for excise duty on fuel. The excise duty on diesel is 14%, the excise duty on petrol is 10%, the excise duty on natural gas is 20%. How the average of 19.9% is derived from these figures does not make sense. An increase of 8.8% is planned for the collection of excise duties on alcohol, while the increase in tax rates is 15%. Here, for the first time, you can see a logical approach. Indeed, the collection of excise duties on alcohol never increases by the same percentage as the tax rates. It is also unclear why the amount of fines would be 24.7% higher next year than this year. Is it really predicted that our people will become more criminal, that so many more fines can be imposed on them? The dominant impression is that this budget plan has been rushed over several times so that an amount should come out, which is essential for sending a balanced budget to the Riigikogu. It is difficult to talk about some ambitious economic and social policy here. The question marks are both in the economic forecast and in specific figures. It is difficult to say how large the deviation from the budget plan figures will be by the end of 2016. Much depends on the global economy, such as the price of oil. What is even more confusing is where the 2016 budget leads both to the social sphere and to the economy. Unfortunately, there is not much time left to dissect this issue, I hope that the next speakers will address it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U167	Thank you. Marika Tuus-Laul, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U168	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good ambassadors! We see how rural areas are increasingly being pushed to decline by this time's budget as well. There is the biggest crisis in agriculture, but the government does not intend to provide transitional support for several years in a row. Once again, teachers' salaries and funding for private schools are dimmed, and the money to fix schools is diverted. We can see that the budget is not contributing in any way to the development of production and the economy at all. It is still hoped that the market will put everything in place, but the market will, unfortunately, work in ways that we do not want to. Rural areas are draining people, and we are pushing it. Its graphic example is all that is seen in another plan for cutting health care. And, of course, we were not introduced to this by ministers when we went to the Ministry of Social Affairs to examine the budget. In particular, the financing of specialised medical care is significantly reduced in small rural hospitals, and therefore the availability of specialised medical care is significantly reduced. This money is transferred from the country to large regional hospitals, North Estonia to the Regional Hospital in Tallinn and the University of Tartu Hospital. And these changes are being made on a daily basis. Hospital managers have repeatedly asked that you give time, even half a year, for such major reorganisations, but no, the Health Insurance Fund is planning to do so from the new year. After all, we learned from the country newspaper that the Ministry is not telling us that 2246 medical cases will be cancelled in Rakvere Hospital next year. In Rapla hospital, special medical care will be reduced by EUR 65000, or 1,400 people will not be treated. They must head to Tallinn and, of course, the travel money will not be paid to them. Hospitals as a whole will have fewer money, including maintenance costs for buildings, although capital expenditure should also be covered from the state budget. Doctors leave, expensive medical equipment loses meaning, and this is how county hospitals gradually become care hospitals. All long-term health care development plans in the country, however, talk about improving access to health care and bringing it closer to people. The current government is simply ignoring these principles for day-to-day policy purposes, thus disrupting the health care system and creating irreversible changes in county hospitals. By the way, it is now possible, as you know, to get to a specialist at a county hospital, because in Tallinn and Tartu queues exceed any reasonable limit and often do not register with many doctors. The availability of specialised medical care has decreased every year, quite significantly. Just one example. We can see from the digital registration office of the North Estonian Regional Hospital that 66% of doctors have no free admission time in the next six months. This means that 179 out of 272 doctors don't have an appointment for six months. And now they want to reduce these queues by reducing the cost of medical treatment from the country and adding more to the cities. It seems that this former master plan of the Lair, Sots, and Squirrel Triple Union, made 15 years ago, is going to be fulfilled, with the goal of leaving only 13 out of 76 hospitals. Now we see that this plan too was too optimistic. All kinds of restrictions are invented. You must now have a referral from a family doctor even if you go to a psychiatrist, an ophthalmologist, or a gynecologist, not to mention other specialists. I would also like to remind you that the government coalition has adopted a legislative amendment which will bring down the social tax rate by 1% in two years, which will take away a very large amount of money from health insurance, EUR 86 million. Seeing today's problems with the state budget, it is unlikely that the money will be found anywhere to fill this big hole. In the light of the state budget, I would like to emphasise once again that the recent report published by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD, shows once again that the people of Estonia have to pay too much for health care themselves. People's own participation in health care increases from year to year and is already approaching the critical limit, i.e. 25% of health costs. This suggests that health services are no longer available for people on lower incomes. This is emphasised in the report. So the critical limit is approaching. In the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, this also shows that 162 workers will have to be made redundant in the near future, for example in PERH and the University of Tartu Hospital. But we know that hospitals already lack staff. However, as shown in the OECD report, due to the poor health of the Estonian people, the welfare index is among the developed countries. Of course, major cuts such as these are still being made in the post-election years. After all, in election years, we are allowed a double pension, for example. Of course, pension increases will come, but I would like to emphasise over and over again Eiki Nestor's words, which he said when his party was in opposition: the pension is increased not by the government, but by indexation. But the right-wing governments have almost always tried to pass this indexation, too. Pensione has been raised less than the pension formula would allow, except, of course, for election years. I recall that international experts have repeatedly said that our pension and health care systems are on the verge of collapse. But it is not dealt with by the movements of Excel men when internal resources are redeployed to improve health care. There is a need to make very fundamental changes and to raise healthcare not only as a pre-election issue, but also as a key issue of the state budget, as has been the case in very many countries. It's the only way we can make a difference together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U169	Thank you. Laine Randjärv, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U170	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Is football better than sex? This is a question that is often put rhetorically to celebrate a situation where it is difficult to choose between two good ones. Today we are discussing an amendment where the football stadium of Lilleküla and the hall of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre have been opposed. A number of questions were put to the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on this subject. As Chairman of the Committee on Culture, I have been presented with a complex dilemma, where the choice should be between sport and music in two important cultural fields. Today, I cannot vote against the Free Party's amendment because the issue of the necessity of the Hall of the Academy of Music and Theatre is an important theme statement. This topic has been topical at least since 1996 when the Riigikogu decided on the construction of three important national cultural objects. These items were the Academy of Music, Kumu and ERM. As early as 2010, the Cultural Endowment Board decided that from the investments of the Kulva, investment support would also start to go to the building hall from 2017. Only that the implementation of the State's decision does not reach the budget in any way, although it has been mentioned in various electoral programmes and also in coalition agreements. I am not voting in favour of this amendment today either, although I support it in my heart. Such a decision, my current choice not to take either side directly, is a tactical decision at present. I know that choosing a party right now would be in the context of the future fate of the music academy hall, the victory of Pyrrhos, if you win the battle, you could lose the war. What, then, should musicians and actors do to move the hearts of decision makers? The representatives of other areas of life have gone to Toompea to express their minds and have been able to impress the decision-makers. What should be done to win the battle? To cancel the song and dance? Not to do Hennessy's New Year's concert or some popular musical at the Estonian Opera Theatre on January 1st? Cultural people have not used this kind of unethical steps to attract attention, and I hope that will not happen. Most of what has been done as a cry for help is an act and concert in a tent erected next to a school building in cold weather. That cry for help, though, probably just sounded like mezzo piano. Now the stadiums. It's about stadiums, not stadiums. For a few years, the topic of reconstruction of the national stadium has been discussed and even the declaration of common interests has been signed. Among others, both the Ministry of Culture and the football federation are parties to this statement. These are plans for the renovation and development of Kalev Stadium, which have been introduced in all institutions. The business plans, own contributions and development plans required are presented with the precision of the cent. The Kalevi Central Stadium needs reconstruction and reconstruction, as this stadium also has two dances in five years, with tens of thousands of people gathering. There are also all-Estonian gymnastics festivals, international big competitions, public sports events. Unfortunately, despite the coalition agreement, the Ministry of Culture has not reflected the needs of the national stadium in the budget. Wouldn't it be wise to direct part of the investment in Lilleküla Stadium to prepare for the planned reconstruction of Kalev Stadium? Design and detailed planning in 2016 will require EUR 1.4 million. Interested parties will be able to get closer acquainted with this topic by means of the Riigikogu youth and sports enthusiasm support groups. I have a number of questions that I really haven't been able to answer. Does the renovation of the Lilleküla Stadium have to be privileged to the Kalev Stadium, which has been properly planned and extensively explained by the managers? Will the renovation of the Lilleküla Stadium meet the noble goals that are spoken of as many young people as possible to benefit from and develop physically? Couldn't the same amount of money be distributed across many stadiums across Estonia? Could there be other methods of financing the Lilleküla stadium than the state budget line, such as the granting of a loan? But I also call on musicians to put their backs together and explain their needs to society together, looking for allies, doing so by tranquillo, but sempre e per sempre, doing it in choir, doing it in unison and using forte instead of mezzo piano. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U171	Thank you. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U172	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I really like the fact that coalition ambassadors don't like this state budget project either. In my opinion, the main problem with the next state budget is that the budget is not sustainable in the long term, speaking from its own point of view and from the perspective of the Centre Party. This is not sustainable even in the next and the next year, but if we look ahead to 2020 when the European Union's subsidies go down by either a billion or 1.5 billion euros, there is now one in five euros in the state budget coming from the European Union, the question arises as to how the Estonian budget will be put together in five years' time. The biggest problem is that the increase in revenue from the state budget does not come from the economy, but from excise duties on fuel, a 2.5-fold increase in fines, an increase in state fees and an increase in the overall tax burden. The budget is nominally 0.1%, or EUR 26 million. In fact, the minus is much bigger, and this is due to the fact that we have planned such a large amount of revenue in the budget, which I do not think is possible in any way. For example, next year's national budget should receive 55 million thanks to the increase in excise duty on diesel. I'm asking how that can be possible. After all, we know first of all that fuel prices are currently among the lowest on the world market. Secondly, if we compare Estonia and Latvia, and we know that Latvians only increase the excise duty on diesel by 2% and our 14%, then it is clear that if an Estonian entrepreneur is going to refuel in Latvia, he will already win more than 100 euros per 1000 litres. I ask why the entrepreneur should then start refueling in Estonia. If we come back to the longer term of the budget, for example, the next year's budget will already have to pay EUR 452 million for pension insurance. This amount will increase to EUR 500 million in the coming years. These small amounts that we have added to the state budget go to the pension insurance fund. And we also know that there is already money to be paid to the health insurance fund. I think the biggest mistake is that we do not support entrepreneurship and businesses. Increasing the excise duty on diesel is in no way a business-friendly step. If we bring more of the issue of agriculture and the concerns of farmers, we will see that there is so much confusion in the budget that it is difficult even to disprove. The government does not understand what a crisis measure is, which is a crisis grant, it is money coming from the European Union, which is also received by all the other countries of the European Union, and which we receive considerably less, and which is money that supports the competitiveness of our companies. Milk production could be Estonia's leading and successful business areas, and it is now. But now they're letting it go down in cold blood. Asia's demand for dairy products is increasing and is projected to increase by up to 20%. If our country does not help the Estonian dairy sector to survive the difficult time, it will be impossible to restore it in the future. Large manufacturers and neighbours rub only their hands if Estonia is unable to protect its manufacturer. Speaking of another problem that emerges here in the Riigikogu every year, honourable politicians make promises in support of certain areas that cannot actually be fulfilled. You are talking about raising teachers' salaries to 120% of the average in the Republic of Estonia. I would like to see the year when the teachers' minimum wage reaches the average of the Republic of Estonia. If anyone in this Chamber can say what year this is, I would be very happy to hear it, because we are still very behind the Estonian average. This year, the minimum wage for teachers is 900 euros. If, next year, an increase of 4 to 5% is found, hopefully, we will reach EUR 950. But the average wage in Estonia is over 1000 euros. So the Estonian average is definitely moving out of the way. Do not give people hopes that you cannot fulfill! A little extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U173	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U174	It is also clear that a rapid sale of state assets is taking place. For example, next year's budget has planned a sale of 13 million state land. RMK is rapidly taking out 19.6 million euros and exploring how to turn RMK into a company. These plans are actually transparent and it is clear why this needs to be done. The current form of business is not an obstacle for RMK to develop in the same way. It should also be taken into account that the overall economic situation in Europe has deteriorated. Estonia's economic growth was also surprisingly poor in the third quarter. According to Eurostat, the volume of industrial production fell by 5.9%, while it increased by 8.3% in Latvia and 5.9% in Lithuania. Against this background, we do not expect and expect the expected state budget to be completed next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U175	Thank you. Andres Ammas, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U176	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The right economic policy choices and educated but cheap labour were heating our economic engine for two decades. However, both workers and entrepreneurs are now feeling the slowing down of the Estonian momentum. As a society, we've come so far that we don't want to do cheap work anymore, but we don't know how to do expensive yet. Estonia's most important challenge is its strong contribution to education. Another challenge is for prosperity to grow and for the social system to withstand stronger pressures. If this succeeds, anyone who can and wills must have the opportunity to contribute as far as possible. The third challenge facing Estonia is restoring its competitiveness. Whether the government coalition dares to make fundamental changes or is limited to political cosmetics depends on the statesmanship and courage of Estonian politicians. Our country needs bold decisions to boost the economy, to bring competitiveness to new foundations and to reconstitute Estonia's success story. Estonia has great potential to continue to be a vibrant and dynamic society, but this requires first recognition of our competitiveness challenges and then fundamental choices in the coming years. The public sector's task is to achieve significantly greater efficiency in its work and to restore confidence in the stability of the economic and tax environment. However, the dynamic development of the economy is only guaranteed by a competent and efficient policy of research and development which is organically linked to the local economy and which is geared to practical results. In flexible Estonia, it is encouraged to discuss all issues, including the fundamentals of tax policy, because the time for opening a basic tax base in society is ripe. The fundamentals of tax policy, as defined in the early 1990s, were correct so far, but they do not guarantee success for the future. Taxation should be changed to increase the motivation of municipalities to develop a local business environment. In order to move towards an efficient working Estonia, the minimum requirement for social tax should be abolished in order to make the tax burden of part-time work comparable to that of full-time work. There's been a talent war in the world for ten years. Only a sufficient number of highly qualified workers are able to attract expensive and complex businesses to the country. The Estonian chance to alleviate the shortage of highly qualified professionals is to attract future talent to study here and to create the conditions for linking later working life with Estonia. Reducing poverty is as important to society as increasing wealth. Ladies and gentlemen, Did the sentences I made so far come to your attention? They had to come because they were not original thoughts, but all came from a manifesto of employers presented just over a year ago. For the sake of justice, yes, some of the ideas contained in this manifesto have become reality: on business day, we raise flags and train young people as apprentices. But the guiding ideas contained in this manifesto about a vibrant, dynamic, flexible and work-friendly Estonia, effectively studying, smart and hard-working Estonia, have not been reflected in the government programme agreed in the spring, and the draft budget being processed does not testify to such a move towards Estonia. In addition to employers, Governor Ardo Hansson of Eesti Pank has also taken the Ruupor, who has said that the only way to ensure long-term economic growth is to make structural reforms. Reforms will improve competitiveness and develop an investment environment. Of the specialists and journalists who have analysed the budget, Anvar Samos has expressed his position strongly and clearly. He has said that it is not a problem that there are no ideas in Estonia about how to restore the country's competitiveness. It's about the courage to make decisions. The lack of it is, in his view, the real reason for the winking. Jürgen Ligi, which is distinct from the rest of the government, has not hidden that such a budget is not exactly his taste for everyone in style, for all ministers to like. This time, Liigi must certainly agree with one thing: in addition to security, education and research also deserved a privileged position in the budget. But just as the coalition failed to agree on priorities in spring and the result was a patchwork of election promises, so this draft budget for the coming year has been drawn up flatly. Percent there and half a percent elsewhere, the revenue side is slowly slowing down to cover the cost side if economic growth doesn't quite stop. The long-lasting growth of the weasel should create a debate, but it just doesn't exist. So has Kersti Kaljulaid, who looks at Estonian affairs from the heart of Europe, said. Amazingly, although all three government parties now have young leaders, they have no ambition to become politicians whose bold decisions are judged, remembered and perhaps recognised afterwards. The councillors make calls, specialists set up a budget, but be a man and keep on going, slow and steady, as long as it's not wrong, as long as there's no trouble. If the opposition is suggesting something, you just have to "put it down," as the young people say. It is simply dangerous for a faithful member of the coalition to get deeper into the amendments to the budget that we are working on today, because if the conscience has not yet fully grown, the heart may be aching. Whether for farmers, teachers, scientists, young patriots, civic activists, entrepreneurial talents, or even athletes. Coalition politicians have stressed stability, sustainability as a particular value of the budget. And one might ask what's so bad about the ticking that it hurts. To put the end of the state budget together, it is, yes, caution and prudence in good tools. But it is criminal to waste our time together. Estonia does not have the time to just run in place for four years. But I guess this whole pep talk is pointless around here. I remember Jüri Järve was once tried by director Voldemar Panso to answer the criticism so that dear Volli could not be better off with this composition. Probably can't do any better with this formation of government either. Sad! But by grasping the thoughts of my esteemed colleague Laine Randjärv, I fear that with this coalition of government, the smorzando, or dying, will go first and then the morendo, dying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U177	Thank you. Hatter, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U178	Good Riigikogu! The Free Party Group put forward a number of proposals to amend the draft state budget. After several hours of discussion, the Committee on Monetary Affairs noticed that the proposals made by the ambassadors of the Free Party have one source of cover, which is a halving of the state funding of political parties. We are talking about EUR 2.7 million. It was a conscious choice. Throughout history, political parties have increased the state's allocations for their benefit. When everyone tightened their belts during the recession, the parties didn't. The result is the division of civil society organisations. We must continue to remember that all civil society organisations, including political parties, must be delivered on an equal footing. We currently have parliamentary parties whose voluntary contributions have decreased steadily. We therefore need to increase the accountability of political parties, as well as the ability to create policies of general interest, as well as the development of smart and meaningful management plans. This requires a reduction in the funding of political parties from the state budget. Otherwise, the widespread Soviet corruption, the end of campaign money to justify the country's generosity to political parties! The free party is concerned that the government is deliberately ignoring the proposals for the European Union's transitional support, which, contrary to emergency crisis measures, does not need to be fought for. Due to the attractions of history, the rural structure of Estonia is written. The culture of farming, which is characteristic of us, is on the verge of destruction. This type of production is typical of Western Europe. We believe that the employment of as many members of society as possible is essential to the Estonian state, which could be guaranteed, inter alia, by supporting farms. One way to channel surplus allocations for political parties would be to make top-up payments up to 300 hectares per producer. It is not a question of whether this is possible. Anything is possible if the government has the will to amend the regulation in this respect and a clear business policy that would serve a long-term public interest in developing the public economy environment. In addition to all the people, believe they're wanted in this country. I have been raised in Laanessaare farm, located in the village of Pühajärve in Otepää municipality. Our milk farm was founded in 1985. This medium-sized farm even visited the Prime Minister in 1993. My childhood passed among the animals. My sisters and I even ran through calves, kids, and dogs. He got a job in the woods, a milked cow, a helped father as a tractor for haymaking, a silo, because he couldn't find any men who wanted to work in the village. The work was too hard for them. But that makes me what I am today. Now our farm has stopped producing, but it has brought enormous value to our lives. Unfortunately, we have fewer and fewer youths who gain similar experiences. More and more we need to answer the question of where milk comes from and what must be done to get it. Estonia is so small that the government must not favour the fattening of political parties at the expense of Estonian farming. Please support the proposal to allocate funds to pay off the top-up! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U179	Thank you. Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U180	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The budget is one of the main levers to guide the development of the country in one direction or another. The main question, in my opinion, is whether the country has a direction or a goal, a clearly drawn target that citizens accept, or whether it is simply a set of lines in the Excel table. I have repeatedly asked the Prime Minister and other members of the government about the great goal, about the Estonian narrative. But the clarity of where we're going, I haven't been able to get these answers. As a rule, a report on its electoral programme and coalition agreement is being reported; it is unlikely that there will be any other way to respond to this issue. The Prime Minister has mentioned in his speeches that Estonia should become a Nordic country, but it does not seem that it is serious. Otherwise, the Prime Minister could point out, by putting his finger on any budget line in the 2016 budget, that to this area we are giving money so much and so much because it will take us a step closer to the Nordic countries. He can't do that now. A great goal cannot be unrealistic. Let us remember this promise to be among the richest five countries. This certainly requires a considerable effort for its country, both from the government and from many simple citizens. Just ticking with this word has been described here in this Chamber as the current course of things, and it doesn't take us anywhere. If it is an objective that has not been sucked out of a ballpoint pen and that mobilises people, then the people will also accept it, and they will be willing to make an effort to do so. Efforts to achieve a recognised objective may be a sufficient reason to favour some areas of the budget and to finance others less. If this is done the way it is now, and everything is justified by the Excel table, then such arguments cannot be taken seriously. It makes us ask again, "Where are we going anyway? When Estonia set its goal of reaching NATO and the European Union, the support group for these goals was not limited to the political parties currently in government. These objectives were supported by the majority of decision-makers and the majority of citizens, if not to say that the entire Estonian people. This made it easier both to take the necessary decisions and to mobilise people to achieve these objectives. The current ignorance of cooperation with opposition parties leaves a large part of the electorate out of our lives and in itself precludes the establishment of most of the recognised targets for Estonia, not to mention their achievement. Our progress is hindered by the lack of discussion in resolving the issues that Estonia needs, such as state reform or making the tax system more effective. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U181	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U182	Our progress is also hampered by the lack of substantive discussion to resolve the problems in the budget. But worst of all, our progress is hampered by the inability of the government to manage such a discussion in Parliament and in society at large. The most disturbing in the work of the government and in its attitude to various issues is the inability to foresee at least where one or the other decision adopted will lead our country in the long term. Often, the decisions adopted are accompanied by a series of negative developments, for which specialists in their field, other competent people or just wise people have warned, but are consistently ignored. And in the end, things always go the way they used to. Let us give an example here of the recent economic crisis and the sudden arrival of the refugee crisis, as well as possible terrorist problems in the future when Estonia intervenes in the military conflict with the Islamic state. I am not thinking here of the need to abandon solidarity and international cooperation, as the Prime Minister pointed out in his reply to my question, but of the willingness to prevent and solve problems, the ability to anticipate them. All these problems are also reflected in the 2016 state budget, which, if adopted, we are still on our way nowhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U183	Thank you. Krista Aru, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U184	Mr President! Good people's representatives! Education is the source of the vitality and vitality of the people. That's what Jakob Hurt said 150 years ago. When the farmers had some money, they sent their sons to school. A hundred years ago, the upper secondary school of the girls of the Tartu Estonian Youth Educational Society was built on the basis of this religion and was built with the people's own money. In 1919 the Estonian University of Tartu was founded on this religion. Folklorists, archaeologists, physicists, mathematicians, chemists who brought fame, shine, money and honour to Estonia throughout the world were trained on this religion. Looking at the budget for next year, I must say that Estonia is no longer of this faith. In terms of overall budget growth, the only area of the Ministry of Education and Research has a total budget reduction of 2.9%. What do we believe in? What do we want? Education is the source of the vitality of the small people. Only by education can we be spiritually equal to the great nations. Why have we forgotten this, and what do we offer instead? However, the biggest part of the orphan population is R &amp; D. Instead of taking forward R &amp; D with its peaks and its very strong foundation, we will reduce the total R &amp; D budget. We may ask why we should contribute extra money to science. What good does science do? After all, we have major problems with the fact that villages are empty, the business environment is poor, people's lives are difficult. Then why science? Today it is not possible to understand the world without science; today it is not possible to provide proper education, even in general education, without science. Today, it will not be possible to achieve a competitive move in business towards Asian and European markets if we do not know what is happening in the secondary field and what is happening in life at all. We are incompetent because science is the basis for success. Why should we put extra money into research and development? Because 20 years ago, very good decisions were made. In order to change the Soviet research system, it was built on competition. Unlike most countries, our research funding is only competitive at 80% of total research funding, both national and foreign, is distributed on a competitive basis. Only 20% comes from so-called basic funding or operating grants. Now we need to change that intercourse. We need to become a normal democratic country that recognises and believes in its science. We need to achieve this ratio of 50 to 50, and we must not take away anything from this competitively distributed pile of funds and replace it with an operating grant. It's very short-sighted, such a proposal can be made, sorry, only a very stupid person. The task of all of us in Estonia today and now is that we need to study the bugs, soils and lakes here, we need to study Estonian food, literature, history, the whole culture that is related to Estonia and Estonians. No one else will come for us. If we don't, we'll be guilty of future generations. This responsibility and the responsibility that our ancestors have placed upon us must not be forgotten. The Estonian people have chosen us in this Chamber to fulfil this obligation even if we make a budget and adopt other laws. At the moment, I want to emphasise this in the context of next year's budget. We must not be the ones who give with one hand and take with the other. This is exactly what I see in this budget, such double-facedness, unfortunately, quite a lot. We praise our music. We are talking about how wonderful the Estonian choir song unites the people, that Estonian composers and artists strengthen common values and bind people, and that ennobs us all. But we are still unable to stand up for a dignified decision to build a new Concert Hall of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre. We are somehow trying to excuse ourselves that there is no money for this now, let's see, maybe someday from now on. We have no right! The 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia is almost upon us. After all, we all want life in Estonia to get better. It's gonna take a change. The changes made must be value-based, they must not be cosmetic, and one of these value-based changes has certainly restored faith in education, science. Through education and science, small people can also take part in the world, in their culture and in their message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U185	Thank you. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U186	Chairman! Colleagues! Aadu, who spoke here, said that teachers are proletariat of the educational landscape. At some point there was a slogan 'Proletarians of All Lands, unite! ', for a while there was a slogan that the shots would decide everything. Now let's turn back a little bit, I would also recommend that the government do this to see what has been done in the Republic of Estonia, that people have become such smart and beautiful. They have been offered an activity of interest, have been made to sing and dance as a child, have been in a proper kindergarten, or have had a decent home education. They have gone to a proper school, they have been offered support services they have been kept and protected. They've got twos, threes, fours, fives. Mom and Dad have been invited to school, so they've been a social teacher and a class teacher. And plus all kinds of other stuff. At the end of comprehensive school, they got their exams done, someone sat with them without any money after hours because they had a problem with them, they wanted to know how two plus two has four. What if it's five or six or seven? I don't know what the hell he is. But someone had time to deal with them. Then they went to high school, someone helped them survive their puberty. The director followed them to the police or police, wrote testimonials of his own free will, later prepared them for the exams, for he was terribly concerned about how they could enter the university. But now it seems that it was not necessary to do all this because, as the holy word says, happy are those who are poor in spirit. The less you know, the better you know you're extremely smart. If you have learned more, there will be doubts as to whether my decision or my decision is correct or not. So let's not give up money just in case. In good old times, the main thing was that you could definitely get married quickly and have kids quickly so that vodka would be cheap and the apartment would also be cheap. That's how people have fewer complaints. Right now, it's just as long as you're stupid. Don't give him one thing to get loose! Don't give him any other stuff, let him sit there in front of the store and suck and inject himself with something! Don't do drugs! And if you do, you only do once the birdie is written, the project money is spent, everything's fine. Don't do any substantial work! We invest somewhere where we can't control it, put the money where we can't see where it went and what happened there. Don't measure the result! Measure the state exams, don't measure what the baby turned out to be in five years. Don't measure what happened to the baby in six years! Krista said important science, science. Right! But you need to go to science, you can't go to science without a multiplication table. You can't go to science without kindergarten, without middle school, without high school. Science can't be reached if man can't imagine the world as it is. When I was in college, Dr. Tuulmets, the head of our chemical lab, said, do you realize how many PhDs you've poured down the sink? Because normally science comes when you start wondering why this or another process didn't work out. And that's when you find something new. We will not be allowed to do this for one reason only: the money taps are closed. I don't understand what has been done wrong as decision-makers. Have these people been terribly bullied? Have they suffered from bullying at school or something else that they do things like that? What's wrong with them? Did they get beat up every recess in school or what's behind it? It is not possible for a person to forget how he became such a person. How, then, can he use his inner strength to convince others that he is right. Damn it, I don't believe those guys on the right when they talk on the remote. I don't believe them! 20 times you ask, and he's gonna fight you in the horn. Nothing's gonna work out! We do not need support services, we do not need anything. No, don't think the government won't raise the teachers' minimum wage. Raise, just like last time, both Aaviksoo and Ossinovski raised. They raised the minimum wage, and a terrible hole was created in the budget for local governments. According to the law, the minimum wage must be paid out, but the money will not be given and the local authorities will patch this hole up. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U187	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U188	Tallinn paid 10 million euros to patch up the hole, and smaller municipalities cannot tolerate it. But the law needs to be enforced, so we have to get fired. The word "release" will be avoided. A teacher like a doctor doesn't leave a person in trouble. When the baby comes and says I want to learn, you go and teach him. When the baby comes and says, teacher, show me how the guitar tours work, I'll show him. If he says, "Teacher, help me read this poem eloquently," then, Krista, I think you're gonna show him. Be that after class, be it 2:00 a.m. Nothing to do, you do it. But for some reason, it's included in your job title and your salary. I would say that Estonia must be happy that Estonia has such citizens. Estonia must be happy and happy to have such a people, a small people who can fight. But faith is lost, and when faith is lost, there is no country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U189	Thank you. Monika Haukanõmm, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U190	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today we are reading the State Budget Act, where the opposition has done, as we know, 37 amendments, none of which were approved in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I would stress that the coalition did not consider any of the amendments to be important. Were all the proposals really not to be taken into account? At the same time, the Commission proposed only one amendment to the draft. This is a very vivid example of how the Riigikogu behaves as a rubber stamp, because we do not take advantage of the opportunity given to us to take part in shaping state life. Instead, we agree with one voice on the content presented by the government. Estonia is a democratic parliamentary republic, which should be characterised by the active participation of the national parliament in the shaping of the state budget, thus setting clear priorities and scope for action by the government and other authorities. I believe that all of us here in the Riigikogu have a so-called area of our hearts, which is why we ache our hearts and want to do our best to change the situation. That way, I don't understand the silence and tolerance that prevails in this Chamber. Why do we not exercise our right to participate actively in the organisation of state life by not using the instruments given to us? But that's it. After the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the chairman of the committee said that he did not believe in the proposal of members of the Free Party Group to channel 2.7 million of the money for political parties into important activities for society. They say we're not sincere. Faith is, of course, a matter for every human being. But if there is a sincere desire to understand the other side and actually to see behind things, it is possible. But it takes will, sincere will. We have not seen this will during the state budget procedure. On the contrary, it's completely missing. By putting it to my heart, I can assure you here that we have been sincere in our amendments and have believed in their need. Here I will give four examples of our eight proposals in the social and health field. Firstly, we proposed to support the Estonian Women's Shadows Association with EUR 200000. The state budget gives them EUR 500000 to support their 14 centres, which averages EUR 35000 per year for one centre. It can support the centre and employ some employees, but it is not possible to provide counselling provided by psychologists, psychotherapists, lawyers, etc. So far, as is always the case in Estonia, this consultation has been possible thanks to the Norwegian financial mechanism's money. Unfortunately, it ends next year. The services provided by the shelter system are also provided to victim support clients, as there are no specialists in every county who are competent in the field of violence. By the way, we have even a group of close-relations violence prevention and victim support in the Riigikogu, where there is no one who does not know how yelling the need for additional money. Unfortunately, this proposal was not supported. A message came today that the Ministry has suddenly found EUR 150,000. It's also good that our proposal triggered the process and the money was found. However, this is yet another confirmation that our proposal was actually appropriate and that it was unfairly voted out. I believe that this issue is important. Secondly, we proposed to support the Estonian Cancer League with EUR 60000, so that this organization, which has been operating since 1992, would come up with an amount to buy a mobile digital dermatoscope to help detect melanoma and other skin cancers at an early stage in order to save lives. It could be used to provide a service to people. We know that in small towns, the dermatologists aren't picking up, and people can't get to the doctor. Early detection, however, is very important. Please look at the website of the Cancer Association for a moment and you will see what a small NGO can do with almost non-existent resources in cancer prevention and support for patients! We believe that there is a need to contribute to cancer because it is a disease that plagues our people, an epidemic. Third, local authorities. We wanted to channel half a million euros to local authorities for the provision of social services. Local authorities are obliged to assist a person in need of assistance based on the principle of subsidiarity. It is not a question of whether or not they have the money to do so. Our table now also contains the full text of the Social Welfare Act, from which we learned that the local government, for example, has an obligation to provide sign language translation services. It costs 36 euros an hour. If we look at how much was allocated to local governments last year to provide social services and support through the Equalisation and Support Fund, the total amount was 444000 euros across Estonia. Let me give you some examples. For example, my municipality of birth in Võrumaa, the small municipality of Mõniste receives a grant of 549 euros a year. Rõuge Municipality receives 1281 euros. What quality and what do we expect of local authorities when there is so little money? Such a situation has led to people no longer believing in our country, they do not believe that if they are in trouble, they will receive help. We want to reach and catch up with the Nordic countries, but if we don't believe in it ourselves and we don't do anything about it, if we don't believe in our people, there's no reason to expect us to get there. Last but not least, a small but very good association that needs help from the state to renovate the house so that they will be able to carry out their work without outside aid, so that they can start a social enterprise in their building and manage independently, offering jobs to many blind people working in Northern Estonia and elsewhere in Estonia. We made a number of other proposals. But we often hear in this Chamber that the state and local government are opposed, and we deplore it. There is a need to act in a state-of-the-art manner. What happened in the Committee on Monetary Affairs is basically the same contrast. We can call this a majority dictation over a minority, or a coalition, to oppose the opposition without any meaningful and serious discussion. The complete examination of the proposals we have made in the Commission can be characterised by 'the lack of empathy and the unwillingness to discuss the proposals in substance'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U191	Thank you. Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U192	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Estonian agriculture is in crisis. Both the dairy sector and the pigmeat sector are facing very serious economic difficulties. And having also met grain growers, I know that they actually have a tense situation. Last Friday, the Riigikogu's Rural Affairs Committee was a field trip to Lääne-Virumaa, where we also met Hans Kruusamäe, an Estonian farmer, known as the Estonian Rye King, who assured us that he would no longer come out unless he had to sell some of his assets in December so that he could pay off bank loans. At least Hans Kruusamägi has something to sell. But among our people there are very many farmers who no longer have anything to sell, because all their property is on their bank account as collateral, and in addition they also owe to suppliers. According to the Farmers' Confederation, as many as 400 dairy farmers may cease their activities from the new year. This, in turn, means that hundreds, if not thousands, of people in the country may remain unemployed next year and later. Farmers see as a solution that the Estonian state would pay them 21.5 million euros as a result of the law. This support would obviously be necessary in order to survive the crisis and to enable the Estonian farmer to compete at all with farmers from other parts of Europe. On the other hand, I am of the opinion that the Estonian state should not save in any way on domestic food production. It is the absence of transitional support that means saving from Estonian food. I cannot agree in any way with the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus, who claims that we should be satisfied with the amounts that are currently in the budget. To be aware, next year only EUR 4.6 million will be earmarked for crisis aid in the state budget. Let's be honest, it's basically non-existent money, if you look at how big a massive crisis is in agriculture. However, for the third year in a row, the government led by the Reform Party has not paid farmers any transitional support and, in principle, it can be said that in three years the country's debt to farmers has already increased to EUR 70 million. And this is very clearly reflected in the economy, including the lack of jobs in the country. A few months ago, in September, Toompea had 101 tractors. I really believed that this demonstration had something to do with the current coalition and that they understood the seriousness of the situation. Can I have one more minute, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U193	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U194	The aim of the farmers' demonstration was for the government to begin to understand the concerns of Estonian farmers. Let me remind you that farmers insisted on what is prescribed by law for them: they called for transitional support, which is paid in other countries, but we do not. Unfortunately, we do not see this support in this and next year's state budget. To be honest, I still do not understand why the Reform Party, the IRL and the Social Democrats do not support the producer of domestic food and the creator of jobs in the country, the Estonian farmer. Does it really not matter to the coalition that there is life on earth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U195	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U196	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who have found a place to remain in the Chamber! I will start by quoting: 'Every morning 1.3 million Estonian people rise and start the day with 1.3 million personal goals to make life better for themselves and their loved ones. In my opinion, this is a huge challenge and a huge goal to build a country that can provide its citizens with a supportive and protective environment for their own success. ' Who do you think said that? That's what Taavi Rõivas said at opinion festival 2014. He continued: 'However, the ideas of improving Estonia's life should not be expected from only 14 people working in the government. This could be one of the major inclusion projects where all 1.3 million ideas drop out how to do it. " In the garment was the Minister of Social Affairs. And he concluded: 'I am sure that ideas will not be lacking, just as with other fellow citizens' criticism of them. But that is the way of functioning and living a democratic state. ' I was looking at the budget. I read it thoroughly, read the numbers, the explanatory notes, talked to the experts. What's up? The opposition proposed 37 improvements to the budget. The Prime Minister and his closest combatants sent them all, I stress: all, without exception, to the trash can. There is a repeat of the same word series 'not counting' everywhere. For example, the National Audit Office did not find a "bad EUR 250000" in order to audit the use of huge amounts of funds for national defence and internal security, either in a targeted way or in Tallinn Harbour. There was a proposal to increase the cost of education by EUR 6.3 million so that the interests of teachers' raises in wages and private schools should not be counterbalanced, which is unfair and vile. Commission Decision: not to be taken into account. Changing the school network will result in increased transport costs. The proposal was that the State should add its share to cover them. Commission Decision: not to be taken into account. It was a very important proposal to allocate 2.7 million to support development and research in order to finally reach the target of 1% of GDP this year. Commission Decision: not to be taken into account. Then there's this kitchen to provide half a million in support for national defense. Of course, it was a decision: not to be taken into account. Or the acquisition of outfits for the young of the Defence League. Forget it! A lot has been said about farmers, and I am also talking about the transitional payments that the European Union allows its Member States to pay. Forget it! The proposal to reduce the allowance for housing of beneficiaries of international protection to equal the allowance for social housing of Estonian residents is not taken into account! The proposal to allocate 1.2 million to reduce rehabilitation queues will not be taken into account! This list is very long and, as I said, all in the trash. But let's keep going. The Cooperation Council between the Government Commission and the Municipalities failed to sign the final protocol of the state budget negotiations. Failure to take account of proposals to increase the income base of local governments will deprive local authorities of EUR 25 million and the support fund's allocation for local road storage of 34 million. The increase in the allowance for school lunch is not taken into account! The allowance for school transport is not taken into account! Something good is also good, however: Prime Minister Rõivas' budget allows EUR 20000 to be allocated for the registration of deaths and births. How can all of this be assessed in the light of Taavi Rõivas' earlier statement that only 14 people working in the government should not expect ideas to improve Estonia's life so that it could be a major inclusion project? May I have more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U197	Please! Three extra minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U198	In fact, the budget for next year, which we are reading here today, clearly shows that the Government of Taavi Clothes does not expect any ideas from others. All wisdom is in his head and in his office. Prime Minister Kõivas is just sitting behind the wheel of a roller and trouble for everyone who gets in front of his road roller. When Taavi Kõivas became Prime Minister, he said we didn't really need a narrative. Colleagues Mikser thought at the opinion festival that, on the contrary, Estonia needs a major narrative in order not to fade quietly. Sester, Chairman of the Monetary Commission at the time, also said that a new narrative is needed, because otherwise we will be gone. By the way, Sester, Chairman of the Monetary Commission at the time, spoke about agriculture. His quote: 'The Minister of Agriculture only sighed sadly in the Committee on Monetary Affairs when it was pointed out that farmers' top-up payments have been surprisedly excluded from the budget, which means a blow to the agricultural sector of more than EUR 20 million. " Now the same can be said of the Minister of Finance Sven Sester himself. Bumerang's gonna kick his ass in the head. In short, stagnation continues. The budget for the coming year and the processing of it will convince me of one thing: Leonid Ilyich Brezhnev is alive, he is still alive now, but in the shadow of a completely different name, just like the former politburo. Also, experts say that our national budget has become increasingly opaque every year. In other countries, the extras are being pushed into the Chamber with carts and you can see exactly how many ballpoint pens and at what price you need to buy somewhere. I have not read about the budget or the explanatory memorandum that one or the other number brings with it and how each number and the figures in the budget are much influenced by the fate of the Estonian people, how this budget will help to overcome the current general public struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U199	Thank you. George Adams, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U200	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I asked Holsmer, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, a few questions and I received answers, but we did not finish the topic of how the state funding of political parties in our southern neighbour in the Republic of Latvia has been organised. This picture is briefly characterized by this. The Latvian Parliament, which is called Seim, will receive annual support for the escaped parties, depending on the number of votes they received during the parliamentary elections. The price of each vote in one year is half the euro. So next year, the number of votes will be multiplied by 0.5 euros. Now it's very easy for us to compare. There will be about 9 euros per vote in Estonia at the parliamentary elections. Thus, Latvians give their political parties 18 times less money than the Estonian state gives them. There is another important difference, which is that in Estonia, giving money to political parties is completely free of any conditions. Not even reports are required, not to mention that there are orders or prohibitions. The parties will be given the full freedom they make with this money. In Latvia, it is said to be the opposite. Firstly, Latvia requires very thorough reports, and secondly, there are complicated rules on which public money can be spent and on which it must not be spent. My amendment, which is in Table 28, concerns the possibility that we in Estonia allocate part of the funding granted to political parties each year to free use of political parties and make it a targeted policy, an instrument for disseminating civic education. Such a proposal was already two or three governments ago when power was under the same coalition as today. Then a bill was launched that was memorized by the public as a draft of the NASAs. NASA was short for the foundation for the development of democracy. Similar foundations were taken as an example in all major political parties in Germany, and they are also in Sweden and Finland. Following the example of Germany, we often call it the German Stiftung system. They are related organisations operating alongside political parties with the aim of disseminating a certain view of the world and civic education. It is a much different system than we have had in Estonia. We are going to have most of the state money given to political parties for quite primitive television advertising, which, during the election campaign, is trying to motivate television viewers to vote for themselves. I don't think it's quite useless. There are certainly people who, without such advertising, would not be able to make a choice at all or who would have been very difficult to choose, but it is certainly not necessary for most of the Estonian people. Such agitation offends a well - educated and intelligent person because he is considered a primitive citizen. Our idea is to spend this money more rationally than the cartel parties have done in ordering TV commercials, and certainly in a different way than they were in the NASA draft of their time. In Germany, Sweden and Finland, there were foundations before the political parties, who first proved their achievement and later, in the course of the development of the state, the work they had done before, either a little paid off or, instead, free of charge, was also recognised with the financial support of the state. By way of comparison, I would like to mention the system that we have proposed at the time, in which we would first be given a large amount of money, and then say that we should organise ourselves as foundations, without even any premonition of what the quality of the work would be. There would be no guarantee of that. Here's what I'm proposing. We must certainly reduce the amount of public money given to political parties. Unfortunately, I do not believe that we could ever catch up with our southern neighbours in their austerity system, but it would make sense to spend at least one part of this money trying to repair the wounds that years of unintelligent advertising fooling our electorate's soul and mind. Finally, I would point out that the number of this amendment in the table is 28. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U201	Thank you. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U202	Ladies and gentlemen, Someone should also be able to praise the whole process of dealing with this state budget in the face of such criticism, and I think it could be from the government's point of view, the Tax and Customs Board. The State Treasury has collected EUR 8.9 billion. The IRS has really been effective, and for that they have received a great deal of recognition. The Tax and Customs Board does not have to be fair; the Tax and Customs Board does not have to bear in mind the balanced interests of society. He has a very simple objective: he must act in the interests of the Government of the Republic and fulfil the Treasury. And this office has indeed been well-filled with the Treasury. But when we look at whether the state budget solves the problems facing society, whether it is fair, whether it can reduce injustice, whether it serves the interests of the state, it must be acknowledged that, unfortunately, the state budget cannot solve the strategic problems facing society. By its very nature, it is an unsustainable and party-to-mouth budget. As long as the three parties currently in the government are more or less satisfied and the grade '3' is dragged out somehow. With this 'three', the three parties have now accepted. When we look at the population crisis, we look at the ratio of births and deaths, we see that by almost 3,000 people, we are down every year. But in the Government of the Republic, no one asked population scientists if there were any family policy measures that would get us out of this crisis. I do not see that this state budget reflects a strong family policy that gives people a sense of security and creates positive growth. There's no family policy here. Let us see if the confrontation between local governments and the central government has decreased, whether the financial autonomy of local authorities has improved. We know that apart from Harjumaa, all counties are emptying out, is there any way the state budget is trying to mitigate this? At some stage, this process reaches a critical point where people outside Harjumaa are so few that it is already a threat to our security. I see that there are no effective measures in the budget to prevent this from happening, that it is not much to think about. As long as the three parties get their "three." Is Security Guaranteed? There's a lot of security rhetoric, and every top politician, every minister who comes to this remote control, claims that security is his favorite subject, but it's actually a relatively dark area. We proposed that the National Audit Office should have military competence to check how this 2.1% of GDP is used, whether smart decisions are made. Self - criticism is always the hallmark of a wise state. But this EUR 250000 was not found. They do not want the National Audit Office to be involved in this area with its own teachings, with its own analyses. But if we look at our maritime security and anti-aircraft capabilities, what are our communication systems, evacuation training and shelters, if we are to find out if our people are safe, then we can say that there are a lot of holes in security that a state-manly government should definitely deal with. So in the end, this budget does not deal with Estonia's strategic problems, but it is the budget for living in the mouth from party to party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U203	Jaanus Marrand, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U204	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I came to this chair to add a small accent to one of the hottest issues of the budget debate. Agricultural subsidies have become almost a blowword, and everyone has something to say about it. There is no person in this hall who does not know the linguistically bizarre top-up used for the transitional allowances paid by the state. As a farmer and politician, on the one hand, I am, of course, pleased that one agricultural policy measure has received such attention. On the other hand, I can see that the top-up proposals are not necessarily reflected in the great conviction that there really is a need to increase subsidies. Rather, the simple fact that the most important thing is simply to propose a proposal later on is to refer to the way in which subsidies were still fought for. In order to reach such an opinion, it is only necessary to look at the sources of the increase in transitional payments. Well, they're not being taken seriously! Clearly, such sources of cover have been chosen, for which it can be more or less reasonably assumed that they will not be supported. In the debate on the payment of supplementary transitional payments, the question arises with many speakers as to whether it is really really possible to understand what agricultural payments are. I am not quite sure that some of the advocates of subsidies, who represent the left-wing liberal policy, still know that agricultural subsidies are not just social benefits for the weakest. For some reason, my mouth is always smiling when a representative of the extreme preserves starts talking about agricultural subsidies. Then I remember how, some time ago, before the European Parliament elections, the representative of this party spoke as a means of saving agriculture from the village to the village about the work of the egg picking car. They say it's a lot of money. The farmers in Järvamaa are now calling for strange, uneconomic ideas to make an egg - picking car work. I am not quite sure that agricultural policy is to be summed up only by a simple learned term, top-up. If there is still no overall picture, the top-up will not help during the budgetary procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, In debates, one of the main arguments is often how all transitional payments are still paid out in Latvia and Lithuania. However, the reality is slightly different. Yes, there have been partial payments, but not full payments. It cannot be overlooked that, for example, the price of raw milk in both countries has been lower over the years than in Estonia, and this price difference will eventually result in a significantly higher amount than the top-up to be paid in part. That is why I dare say that in Estonia things are better than in Latvia and Lithuania, and even after the crisis, we have a stronger position for farmers than in Latvia and Lithuania. Yes, indeed, the situation on farms is difficult because we have been hit by the Russian trade embargo, the swine plague and the abolition of milk quotas and the price crisis at the same time. Of course, it would be very necessary and reasonable if these EUR 21 million could be found for additional transitional support. However, this is simply not possible in the current budgetary perspective. However, I am no longer as pessimistic as I was a few months ago, because half of the necessary grants exist. Let's add it up. For example, last spring's emergency aid from Europe EUR 6.9 million, plus an additional EUR 7.56 million to be paid to milk and pigmeat producers until January next year, EU aid and EUR 7.6 million to the Estonian budget itself. In total, it will make more than 22 million euros in extra money for Estonian farmers in less than a year. Fortunately, we have had a very good cereal year, and maybe there is no need to pay them any additional subsidies, because in fact, many operators are smoothing out other income deficits in the agricultural sector. This EUR 22 million, which reaches producers, cannot in any way be called small money. The additional cash flow, which had not been taken into account so far, helps farmers quite well. I would also like to highlight the positive psychological change that led to the demonstration of farmers in September. Farmers' pressure was certainly one of the factors that prompted both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister to support the payment of additional payments. They found help with the crisis. I honestly admit that, in my political corruption, I considered the trading of additional subsidies to be a relatively impossible mission. I'm glad I've had to change my mind. It doesn't really matter what the money is for farmers. As long as it comes quickly, at the very top of the crisis. The Ministry of Rural Affairs also did a pretty good job in the European direction. The crisis support that comes from there is far greater in proportion than the share of Estonian agriculture in the European Union. It is positive that the Reform Party, which has shown a great deal of ignorance about agricultural issues so far, has, after the initial obvious shock, had to re-evaluate its positions in the run-up to the Ministry of Rural Affairs. These are real changes that will give rise to better developments for the future. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, it is clear that no one can fully compensate for the impact of any economic crisis. However, this can be alleviated, and this is what these additional crisis assistance grants will do in January-February next year. Furthermore, the EUR 1.57 million allocated to the PRIA should not be forgotten. This money will significantly increase the IT capacity of the institution and create an opportunity to pay out global grants. Thirdly, I would like to highlight the possibilities for the payment of MES grants, which are not included in the budget. The economy is cyclical. It is quite clear that if a price has been high for a long time, it will in any case be followed by a fall. For example, in the case of the disappearance of the milk quota, it has been known for years that this will lead to additional quantities on the market and therefore the price will fall. I was aware of the forecast European milk price for the quota spring, and it has actually kept water. However, no one could have foreseen a complete Russian trade embargo. In this regard, it is natural for aid to be found, and this aid has actually come. I dare say that European crisis aid, as well as our own budget, compensates quite a lot of the damage caused by the Russian embargo. I am quite optimistic and, in general, I share the view of quite a number of analysts that the price of raw milk will turn up in the second half of next year and this will lead to a lighter breathing in at least one area. But if it really does appear that the crisis is continuing, then we need to come back to the crisis measures. There is little difference as to whether farmers' support is called top-up mystery, public support or transitional support. It is important that the extra money reaches the farmers, that is a fact. There is no political agreement for more subsidies, nor does the budget amendments change that cannot be taken very seriously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U205	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U206	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I feel tired inside me, listening to and reading tiredness, and also constantly saying that if one country wants to do something, it needs a big goal. Unfortunately, there is talk of a lack of what is called a narrative today, already in very large quantities, but somehow this message does not reach the government. Before I was elected to the Riigikogu, I worked as a film producer. As a film producer, I have made a lot of budgets in my life, and these budgets have had one goal, one goal, after which the film was made. It was a scenario, an idea they wanted to do on film. This idea is currently lacking in Estonia. The budgetary aspect brings to my mind such a maritime image: there is a wooden boat on the sea that could be called our country. It keeps coming in the holes and panickingly stuffing them with holes, but it's overlooked that the rudder is completely broken. What I would like to talk about more specifically today is an area declared by the government and the government departments to be one of the priority areas in Estonia a few years ago. I am thinking of our internal security and the volunteers in this area. At one point, the central government of the country decided that it was necessary to reduce the number of professional internal security workers, rescuers, police officers, and to replace this activity with voluntary activities. I very much support this idea, I very much like it. It has strengthened communities and has many other advantages. And it's gone well. There are currently more than 100 volunteer fire brigades in Estonia and more than 30 voluntary marine rescue associations, thousands of trained rescuers etc. But these rescuers and relief officers are, in a way, left alone. What do you mean, alone? In the field of rescue, a great deal depends on technology and tools, as well as on further training and everything else. Now they say that the rescuers get supplies, and from time to time they really get supplies, but all this needs spare parts, repairs, accessories, etc. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U207	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U208	The state has supported the rescuers, but this amount is very small. They are looking enthusiastically for ways to keep them safe for all of us by looking for sponsors, donations, and so on. This enthusiasm is running out, and that is why I want to draw everyone's attention to the fact that the support that volunteer rescuers and relief officers need is not really very big, but it is a matter of principle. Only 1% of the budget of the Rescue Board is made up of volunteers, but the amount of work there is more than once. The share of voluntary rescues in the Rescue Board's budget could reach 8%. If, for example, EUR 1 million were added to all the rescuers today, including the relief police, then this small amount alone, I would emphasise, small, because if we look at what kind of money the government is making to the new airline, one million is really a small amount, it would be a sign that the central government is supporting the volunteers and has not left them alone. Finally, I would like to remind you that volunteers are people who promote community life, who are very active in regions and whose actions are based on altruism. They go to save people regardless of their language skills, color, social status. So once again, I ask these people not to be left alone or forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U209	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U210	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Our group made one correction to the state budget. This one correction, indeed, consisted of 18 separate corrections. Why did we do that? The reason was very simple. We wanted to convey, in a concentrated way, the message that we want to support Estonian agriculture and Estonian rural areas in general. It is absolutely not true that we did not reveal the sources of cover. The sources of cover have been shown, as has most of the other proposals made by the opposition. The question is whether those who think that they have some sort of special right to consider the sources of cover offered as good or bad, sufficient or inadequate take them into account. The sources of the coatings are indicated. So the rumor that the sources of cover are not marked doesn't hold water. In fact, I wanted to start with words of praise. I want to pay serious tribute to Minister of Finance Sven Sester and the officials of the Ministry of Finance, who have literally made shitty bread and put together a budget that can be processed in this Chamber. At the same time, I must agree with the criticism that has already been heard several times from this point of speech and from the floor, namely that this budget is not a serious budget in the light of the country's development. It's a budget for spreading money. And the biggest mistake is that it does not see any country's priorities, the prioritisation of a particular priority and the efforts made to implement it. What is the purpose of the Estonian state that this budget should support? Is this an exponential increase in our defence capabilities in the current difficult and increasingly difficult international situation? It doesn't count from here. Is that investing in our people? We can talk about both the education system and the social guarantees, as well as many other areas, but it does not appear from the budget. Is this objective to support Estonian culture, which is the most powerful and weighty pillar of our nation? It doesn't appear from this budget. So I could list a number of other areas. This budget is when you borrow the expression from Ilf and Petrov's excellent book '12 chairs', 'abortion victim'. It is a budget that has been put together, just as it covers all areas, just as pensions, school lunches, etc., are guaranteed, but in fact, nothing more than a stagnation and a fall back and a disturbance of the state's authority in the eyes of its citizens. Of course, respectable coalition parties, you need to keep the food chains together, and you're pushing it through. You've got somebody here to make president. You need to do this, the second and third thing you've agreed on under the carpet and behind the scenes, and you're pushing it through. But I'll tell you one thing, I've said it and I've written it before, but it's not gonna get there, I'm telling you, the longer you ignore public opinion, the sooner you lose legitimacy and the sadder your end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U211	Maire Aunaste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U212	I'll give you more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U213	I'll start at that end. I'll start, Mart, by saying to you that we at the coalition need to choose the president. It is not the case that we need to choose the President. The Estonian people need a president and I very much hope that everyone in this Chamber, all 101 people will choose a president and do not show that they would choose their president. This is not us, the president of 101 people, our government, our prime minister. In fact, the words 'you' and 'we' are behind all the things we promised at the beginning of this year. We all want our people to live better. So this 'you' and 'we', this coarse line all the time, it hurts me. Otherwise, I wouldn't have come here if I hadn't listened to Monika Haukanõmme's speech. As the last sentence, Monika said that, unfortunately, the Social Affairs Committee also lacks empathy and a willingness to discuss matters in substance. Before, I wasn't even going to come out of the office at all, which I have to say here, on an unfortunate rookie, little rubber stamp. But that line made me move. My mistake as a journalist has always been that I'm too empathetic. I didn't do any shows so I didn't have a tear in the corner of my eye. Yesterday, in the Committee on Social Affairs, there was a representative of the deaf, the leader of the Deaf Alliance, and just the way he spoke in his sign language, which I did not understand a word, I wanted to start crying. Because a man is so out for his own business. And he came to talk to us precisely because in this state budget, the service of sign language translators has unfortunately been included in the services organised by local governments. Since this service is not a primary requirement in Estonia, it could not be included among the national priorities. Now I ask: how is it possible that people who speak not Estonian but sign language as their mother tongue cannot speak to us? How come we do not think that if the state does not really finance this translation service, we are pushing these people out of society? They can't explain themselves to us, and neither can we. And it's not just a lack of empathy, it's just reckless. However, I do not want to say that we, who sit on committees, are reckless. But remember, recently Reinsalu stood here on the remote and said that he would propose that committees start drafting draft laws with the Minister. Personally, I have really had very little time with politics. But the first mistake I realized here is that we are being sent from ministries such draft laws and reform programmes, which have been prepared for several years, but we will only discuss them on our committees then. These are already almost baked pies, which we can only start by shaking raisins or chocolate on and taking something out of there, but the main work has already been done. Especially when one and the same bill has passed from one Riigikogu to another, we cannot say that, oh, everything is wrong and we start from the beginning. So it seems to me that the proposal of the Minister of Justice is a good one. First of all, I'd make less laws, and second of all, if we were to do them, we'd start by setting the priorities that we need. And then we start thinking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U214	If this idea works, that's what we're gonna do. At the moment, I understand that with this state budget, which we are voting for and from which we are excluding a great many amendments, we cannot vote in favour of the proposals only because if the country is like one boat, one side of which has one party on one side and the other side has other parties, we can simply sink this boat. Perhaps it is that this coalition, this government, has wanted to give everyone something, which really means trying to please everyone. I know, but sometimes I know better than any of you that everyone can't like. If you've been on TV for over 20 years, you know half the viewers hate you. If we had set priorities differently, and if the government had set things differently, some people, some groups of people would have been lost. Would we have been happy? Would we have been pleased if these other parties had left empty pockets? Although I don't like the fact that we give a little bit of it to really see it on paper, it doesn't add up to anything in life. That is correct: priorities should be set, and I say that the first priority is precisely to invest in people. This is what Mailis Reps has been saying for years: more school food must be given. This year it would have been 6 million. I am also very embarrassed that farmers did not receive the money they desperately needed to survive. And the same thing I've already said, the problem of translating deaf people's sign language. In short, let us also think about the concerns that affect very small groups of people! If our decision gives them a chance to survive, then let's start with it and move on to bigger things. Because if we start with the big ones, the little ones will always go unnoticed, that is, without money. So I don't have a lack of empathy, but I'm not capable of changing anything here right now. I promise that in a year, next year, I will learn how the state budget will be drawn up, and I will also look into what might be the sources of cover. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U215	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U216	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, guests and live watchers! It was not my intention to speak at first, either, but by listening here to all these opinions, I quickly put some thoughts on paper. I dare to think and actually hope that it will never happen in this Chamber that there will be no proposals for improvements, questions and different opinions in the state budget procedure, including differences of opinion, which are due to the view of the world. After all, the priorities of each party depend on the latter. I hope that there will still be a benevolent debate in this Chamber, not an attack on one another, on different points of view. Can I say that this is an ideal budget or a good budget? Absolutely not. Like all of us in our family, we always have more wishes and more wishes than opportunities, we must also choose a compromise in this Chamber. Perhaps the question arises as a social democrat is why I am voting in favour of this budget. I do this because I see that the budget still focuses on people, young, middle-aged and elderly, offering grants, support, but also opportunities. Are these enough? No, it's not. However, these grants are not one-off and are not all one-year-old activities. The plan includes a gradual and long-term increase in child benefit. For the following year, the amount of the allowance for the first and the second children is EUR 50, not the amount that was unchanged for 10 years and which did not take into account the cost of living, as it was until 2014. In 2016, a three-child family allowance of EUR 200 per month will be granted, and since 1 July 2017, this amount will be EUR 400 per month, as the so-called "family allowance" of EUR 200 will be added from the third child onwards. In 2016, the subsistence limit will rise from the current 90 euros for the first family member and 130 euros for all children. In the next few years, there will be an action grant and a so-called "residency fund" for parents raising a child alone when the other parent has left the family and left the child or children without any money. Pensione does not raise the government, but the index, as the good colleague Marika Tuus-Laul stressed in her speech. It's true. In addition to pension increases, however, the government has decided that the tax-free rate will rise for both employed and elderly people. Estonia's average old-age pension for 44 years of service will rise from the current 374 euros from 1 April next year to 395 euros. The average old-age pension in Estonia continues to be exempt from income tax, i.e. 395 euros is exempt from tax. I also know that a number of concerns and problems can be resolved between the second and third readings of the state budget. The solution will also be the concern of the women's asylums already mentioned in this Chamber today that there will be no money to advise victims of violence when funding through the so-called Norwegian programme ends. To that end, an amount of EUR 200000 shall be granted. The work these people do is essential. This problem certainly had to be resolved, and that will be the solution. Much has been said today about the teachers' minimum wage. Teachers are the salt of the earth, our wise, iron and gold treasures. Only an educated Estonian can make a small country big. However, I have not heard a single word from this speaker about the salaries of social workers. An educated, graduate social worker earns an average salary of € 560 to €700 while working in a state institution. Yes, the government has decided that a 4% increase in the salary of social workers is also a priority, but this is a very small addition. We trust our children in the good hands of kindergarten and school teachers and they must have a normal salary, but why can social workers who help our parents or other people in need of help have a very small salary? Social workers do not come to the streets, they probably do not come to the Riigikogu 100-ones, nor do care workers come here with beds. They do their daily work, and they just don't have time to protest. So the 2016 state budget we are discussing today supports, solves and improves something. I'm sure it's not ideal, but to say that it doesn't change anything or make things worse, I can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U217	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U218	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, We have certain rules here in the Riigikogu. There's a coalition, there's an opposition. The coalition is offering us great laws, the role of the opposition is to criticize them, to show us why they are not fit for anything. And as usual, if there are two arguing sides, there should be some way to find out the truth. As far as budget negotiations are concerned, they are the longest and also the most painful. I must criticise the budget, but at the same time I have to say that it is not too bad, given the state of the country with all its economy, given what happened to Estonian Air, given how it has gone with Eesti Energia, who has buried our money in the Arizona Desert and found a place where digging is prohibited. So that money won't be found again. Still, some kind of budget came together. Of course, we are not satisfied with this. A budget budget, but people don't want to see a number on paper. They want to see something on their bank account or money they get on payday. They want life to be reasonable. For God's sake, if the disease comes, so that you can get to the doctor too, you should not chase down Estonia after the doctor and look where there is a shorter one, where there is a longer queue. But it turns out that somehow we are developing that there are not only two Estonias, but there are already four Estonias. So far, we had two Estonias - rich Estonia and poor Estonia. There were 3% of the rich who went to the southern islands to rest, bought fancy cars, and lived a very happy life in the first place, and 97% of the poor who rolled pennies in their hands and somehow tried to stretch from payday to payday. But now we also have Estonia for decision-makers and Estonia for decision-makers. There are people who, in the truth and in the faith, step forth in the ranks of the five richest nations. Some of us are probably getting to the richest in Europe, but it is only our government and a small number of officials working in the European Parliament. But for some reason, all the rest of the people will be left behind. This is how our country, or the richest of the five, will come, but our people will be among the five poorest. People are moving in the opposite direction. But it turns out that this gap is far greater than the difference between the pay gap and the wealth gap. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U219	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U220	Of course, the thing I see most is that people are frustrated by the lack of medical care. Yeah, the queues. They say there's nothing wrong with them, and now we're gonna get everyone to the family doctor. You don't need to see a specialist, because you don't know if you need a doctor or a ladies' doctor. Go to the family doctor, he'll stick his finger in the eye, and then the other place and the third. It's a good thing he washes his fingers sometimes. But the family doctor doesn't solve all the problems. And it is not at all thought that if these people were to be referred to a family doctor in the order of the specialist, the total number of patients would not be smaller. Then the line is just outside the other door. Somehow, people think we're moving the order from one place to another, and people get better. But what else could happen? It could happen the way we have dental care. In civilised countries, it is customary to compensate for all necessary health care, including dental care. In Estonia, dental care is paid for until the age of 19, after which there is a long, empty country and, from the age of 65, suddenly something is paid for prostheses. But where did those teeth go? If you look at what's happening to hospitals, we can see that general hospitals are being pulled together, the number of treatments is being reduced. People now have to go to the centers to find help. It all costs money, and it means that the local life will continue to be extinct. We were killed by the fire department, and people formed volunteer fire commandos. The post offices have been wiped out, so let's pick up the letters, and the neighbor will take them away. In some places, even the police station has been shut down. Okay, well, people can sort themselves out. But it's not gonna work. It's not gonna work. Interestingly, we have been told here for a long time that Estonia contributes about 6% of GDP to health care. That's how it's been for years. Once this percentage was 5.9 and then it was 6.1, which is expected to be 6.2% for next year. So, what a rise! There's advice to listen, but don't believe your ears, look, but don't believe your eyes. You take off the Homepage of the Ministry of Finance and there's a beautiful PowerPoint that says that next year, 5.2% of GDP will be invested in health care. That's a whole percentage less, and that's a lot of money to feel. Speaking of 5.2%, we're almost going back to Soviet time. Young people in the Soviet Union don't know, but the old rememberings, the financial allocations for health care were stable from 1957 until the end of 4.7 or 4.8%. So far, then, we have come under the wise leadership of our government. Let's move fast! The money is shoveled into the Estonian Air and Arizona deserts and it is feared that the same processes will take place with the budget. The money will be directed to where the richer and smarter part of Estonia wants, but the people who pay taxes who pay the excise duty who pay VAT will be missing. Almost the entire Estonian population is lacking, and they are our voters. And I cannot tell the difference that, for example, the voter of the Centre Party is a good person for me, and the voter of the Reform Party is a bad person. Everyone is human, regardless of skin color, beliefs, and whoever they are. People must be protected and the budget cannot be adopted in this form, because it is not suitable for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U221	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U222	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the main messages from next year's state budget will be less bureaucracy, better coping. With the funding planned for 2016, we will take the next steps towards increasing social security by cutting red tape and improving the livelihood of families. The coming year 2016 will lead to a number of changes in the social field, the implementation of which the Government Union has sought to reduce the bureaucratic burden on applicants, improve the livelihood of families and pensioners and improve legislation. The development prospects for the Estonian social system for the coming year are positive. The expenditures of the Ministry of Social Affairs area are more than EUR 3.5 billion, or nearly EUR 176 million more than this year. The 5.2% increase in expenditure in this area does not allow for miracles, but ensures stable and sustainable development in the Estonian social system. Repressed beneficiaries will receive additional support. Legal changes have been adopted in the Riigikogu, as a result of which the aid for restoring health to those who have been repressed by the occupation regimes and the travel allowance will be merged into a single grant of 192 euros per year from next year. It is important, however, that expenditure documents no longer need to be provided when applying for aid. This will eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy for 11300 people of already dignified age, who have so far received half of the ticket money from public transport. In the case of unitary support, people who have suffered from the repression of a foreign power can decide for themselves, at their best discretion, how to use the grant money. Coping with families with children improves. The aid for the first and second children shall rise to EUR 50 from 1 January next year. The total budget for family allowances is EUR 194,9 million. The budget will increase by 16.1 million euros compared to 2015. The state will continue to raise children's benefits in 2018. Support for children's families will rise in 2017. The first child benefit is paid to 157603 children, the second child to 71267 children. The increase in the benefit for the first and second children affects 91% of the beneficiaries of the child benefit. Income support is also increasing. The income support rate will rise to 130 euros in 2016 to support the families in need. The limit for 2015 is 90 euros. Income support for 2016 has a budget of 22.5 million euros, with a budget increase of 3.4 million euros. The rate of unemployment benefit increases. If in 2015, the unemployment benefit is 4.01 euros per day, then in 2016 it will be 4.41 euros per day. Unemployment benefit, an average of EUR 124.25 per month in 2015, will rise to EUR 136.71 next year. The new Child Protection Act enters into force. In 2016, a new national child protection organisation will be put in place to prevent and reduce social and health risks for children and young people. At the same time, new support services will be offered to families, family mediation services will develop and the parental education programme and further training of child protection workers will continue. Pensions are growing. Pensions will rise by 5.7% next year from 1 April, with an average old-age pension rising from EUR 370 to EUR 396 for people aged 44 years. The order of rehabilitation services is shortening. Thanks to the additional budget money, it is possible to shorten the waiting list for rehabilitation services, where there are currently nearly 9,000 people in line. Support for women who are victims of violence will continue to be provided by telephone support. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U223	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U224	24-hour free national helplines are designed to provide initial help and advice to women who are victims of violence. Access to tools for disabled people is improving and waiting lists for special care for people with special psychiatric needs are shortening. In addition to the European Social Fund, EUR 275000 will be allocated to people with disabilities in order to improve access to assistance. The total budget for 2016 is €5.5 million. Health insurance money will be used as efficiently as possible. The aim is to strengthen and expand the role of family doctors and nurses as patient treatment coordinators and health advisers. Family doctor's treatment is a priority so that the main necessary tests and procedures can be obtained by and under the coordination of a doctor. The wages of health professionals are increasing. In health care institutions financed from the state budget, the collective agreement of health care workers of 19 September 2014 requires a 10 to 11 percent increase in the salaries of health care workers. The costs of preventing disease and reducing dependence will increase. The acquisition of HIV and AIDS medicines is going to be calculated. Work capacity reform is underway. The implementation of the employment capacity reform from January 2016 will lead to a wide range of services being offered to people with reduced working capacity and their potential employers. The services are provided by the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund and the Social Insurance Board. From July there will be a new procedure for assessing the capacity to work, taking into account the person's operational capacity and its limitations, as a basis for assessing the needs of the services provided and for paying the capacity to work allowances. From 2016, the system of income tax refunds to improve the livelihood of families will be launched. This is an important measure to reduce wage poverty and the resulting emigration. The first payments under the new system will be made in early 2017 on the basis of income tax figures collected in 2016. The amount of reimbursement will depend on the income earned, the number of months worked and the structure of the income. As a result, each person's refund may be different. The amount of repayment increases as income increases and is highest at the gross wage of EUR 480, which is EUR 708 per year. In the case of higher income, the amount of the refund will start to decrease and reach zero at the gross monthly salary of EUR 649. On the proposal of the Social Committee that I chair, the circle of beneficiaries of income tax refunds was extended and, as a result, the system of reimbursement is also open to pensioners who are unable to work full-time. This is also a contribution to the work capacity reform. The payback system increases the income of families and, on the other hand, makes it possible to improve the situation on the labour market and, thanks to growing consumption, to stimulate economic growth, which is the basis for increasing our well-being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U225	Kadri Simson, please! Three extra minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U226	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, It was a pleasure to hear almost as optimistic a text from the previous speaker as we heard from the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, at first reading of the state budget. But if Sven Sester believes that this is a good budget, which is far from being bent, then he's actually misunderstood something. A number of fundamental issues may not be resolved next year, starting with the alignment of the local government revenue base with the cost of carrying out the tasks assigned to them and ending with an increase in teachers' pay. The opposition is trying to correct the errors in budgeting, but the question is how many departments of government listen to useful advice. Among the opposition's proposals were a number of ideas which the government does not want to accept just because they have been presented by the so-called 'opinion camp'. We're still in a situation where the wrong man can't do the right thing. We all know that Estonian farmers receive much less area support than their colleagues in the old European Union countries. We also know that our immediate neighbours will compensate for this injustice from their national budgets. It is absurd that the Riigikogu in the Committee on Monetary Affairs is aware of the problem, but the proposals are still voted down. The vote on the amendments that will begin immediately in the Riigikogu will show whether the budget can be more satisfied than it has been so far. It is true that income growth will be planned next year from tax increases that have not yet entered into force, and money will be lacking in the education system, producers in the countryside and cities and municipalities. Many people have been interested that if this budget is not ideal, why does the opposition not hold night sessions this time. The answer is very simple in itself: the opposition exerts pressure at night sessions when the government decides to implement extraordinary unfair changes together with the budget. But this year, the government brought these unfair tax increases before the Riigikogu at the beginning of the summer. Before Midsummer, we were ready for night sessions to prevent tax increases, but the Prime Minister did not even dare to vote on these decisions in the Riigikogu, but tied it to a one-off vote of confidence. However, let me remind you of the tax increases that we cannot talk about this time. An additional revenue of EUR 55,2 million will be planned next year from the better collection of excise duties alone. And 47.8 million of this is fuel excise, which will certainly result in higher prices. There is still a modest planning next year, as in 2017 we plan to raise 81.8 million already with the rise in excise duties. I would like to remind you that these tax increases were made by the government departments to cover the promises that had not been covered up to that time. Even the former Prime Minister's advisor, Ruta Arumäe, said that if tax increases are the only solution to improve bottlenecks, it is not a strategy, it is populism and stagnation. Now, from our amendments. Firstly, I must explain why the Centre Party has tabled only four amendments. Because the amendments have been made even more difficult for the opposition than has been the case so far. The government has been able to bring a minus budget to the Riigikogu, where the costs are more than revenue. The opposition can't do anything like this. We need to find a source of cover for every expense. In addition, we have been deprived of the opportunity to propose tax changes as a source of cover. On the one hand, it is certainly necessary and welcome in society that tax changes come at half a year's notice, but on the other hand the opposition has been deprived of the opportunity to propose substantive amendments. The opposition cannot offer any additional costs without showing what budget line the money will be found on. At the same time, the government can do that. Let me give you a few examples. If the opposition proposes to resolve some of the more burning issues in the budget at the expense of the reserves, this is not an appropriate amendment and cannot be discussed. However, we can see that if the government allocates 32 plus 40 million euros overnight to finance Estonian Air's front company and takes these amounts from the reserve, this is a fully accepted solution. Although our options are limited, the Centre Party Group has tabled four amendments. The main of these is the full payment of transitional support to Estonian farmers. We offer as a source of cover an opportunity to sell a surplus of the state's fuel supply. The National Audit Office has pointed out that the Estonian Liquid Fuel Supply Agency has miscalculated the mandatory liquid fuel supply and that is why it is about 57000 tonnes larger than required. When selling too much fuel, it must be taken into account that fuel prices fluctuate, but it must also be taken into account that keeping this excess fuel costs the Estonian state 1.5 million euros each year. And if we have a choice as to whether to sell excess fuel at a somewhat lower price or to let many Estonian farmers go bankrupt at a very critical time, then the choice is simple: it should support Estonian farmers. The Centre Party Group has also proposed an amendment to help the Minister for Education, who complains that the opening of the Coalition Treaty allowed for an increase in teachers' pay, but no money for it, and therefore has to contrast the interests of teachers and private schools. We proposed that there should be enough money both for the wage increases promised to teachers and for bullying of private schools to be prevented. One major amendment is the restoration of the municipal income base. At the time when a certain share of income tax was taken away from municipalities, it was said that they would no longer have to spend so much on kindergartens and youth sports. Therefore, municipalities are in different situations when paying the salaries of kindergarten teachers. The increase in the pay of kindergarten teachers can only be supported if the government restores the municipal income base of its own time. Finally. This year, the teachers have been pretty quiet. With the agreement of the government coalition, the goal is to pay teachers a fifth higher salary than the average salary. As a result, the teachers' minimum wage should rise to the average wage in Estonia. However, several signs show that next year's budget will not bring the minimum wage of teachers closer to the average wage, but will tend to fall further behind the average wage in Estonia. Promises will be made that will not be fulfilled. And now, if school support workers are hit again, the investment component that began to be allowed to be used last year to pay the salaries of psychologists and logo beets, instead of benefiting, this budget makes work more difficult in the education sector. I therefore ask you to support the Central Party's amendments, which have clear sources of cover that do not undermine the budgetary balance, but solve a number of problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U227	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U228	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am saddened by this budget itself and by the way it is handled. But to say something positive, I honestly feared that the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs would come here to assure us for the tenth time that the budget was so good that the opposition had nothing to say. First of all, it is undoubtedly wrong. This is demonstrated by both the amendments and this debate here. Secondly, it is such a foolish attempt to marginalise the opposition, which I know in particular from those countries which have little to do with real parliamentary democracy. The Free Party continued to have idealism in order to make the right number of amendments. Indeed, none of them went through, but they certainly point to some direction, and in that sense we are very important. I am also surprised, however, that the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not have to invite the Minister for Finance to a second reading. We have completely forgotten one provision of our Rules of Procedure. When the way in which the drafts were dealt with was transcended, the Minister only went to first reading, the opportunity was neglected to invite the minister to second reading before the Riigikogu. I would also like to remind you that when the Free Party raised questions with macro-economic content here, I mean that we have no idea where this growth optimism comes from correctly, the Minister of Finance mostly owed the answer at first reading. It is true that we have inherited the same from the Prime Minister. I am pleased that at least one representative of the Centre Party, Erki Savisaar, drew attention to these same aspects in today's speech. We still don't understand where this optimism comes from when exports and industrial production are constantly decreasing. This write-off, which is not reflected in the current draft budget, but which will probably come, is obviously one measure in order for something else to come up when it comes to a bottom-up. But if that were to happen, it would certainly not be a sufficient measure, and certainly not correct. The amendments proposed by the Free Party are mostly based on the philosophy that the central apparatus of the state lives quite well for us, but in the so-called peripheral regions there are and indeed there are financial needs, and a great deal. Perhaps to the central apparatus all this seems to be the periphery, and when it comes to agricultural subsidies, it may even be the periphery in geographical terms, but looking at things like this is definitely very damaging. And now, to conclude with this trick, where eight members of the Vabarian Party proposed their own version of how the sum allocated to Estonian political parties from the state budget would be halved by reducing it by 2.7 million more effectively. There are ways and there are ways. But, of course, we wanted to draw attention first and foremost to this very source of cover. Dear Maire Aunaste, the sources of cover that have been used badly and not wisely, there are others in the budget, there are, and there are. Let us understand, then, the simple fact that if we, i.e. political parties, show the people unworthy of management and selfishness, then why should the people of Estonia believe in us when it comes to this budget? This budget is not about smart management and fair redistribution. This budget is, in fact, a derivative of our very failed political party financing system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U229	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. 39 proposals have been received for the second reading to amend bill 103 and we need to review them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Central Party Group, which has not been taken into account by the lead committee. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U230	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U231	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U232	On behalf of the group, I would like to ask for a three-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U233	Break three minutes. We'll proceed at 6:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U234	Good fellows! The recess requested by the Reform Party Group has ended. We are on the first amendment. I shall put to the vote the first amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 37 in favour, 50 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. A second amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The third amendment has been tabled by Mr Herkel; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U235	Thank you. I ask the Free Party Group to vote on this proposal, which, at the expense of party money, would increase our stabilisation reserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U236	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Please, Laine Randjärv! Is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U237	Thank you. I have a procedural remark. Firstly, we have agreed good practice that the content of the amendment is not presented and the sentence of the voting proposal is short: the basis, the saying, the aim. Secondly, it would ask the President to state the position of the commission if this is not a proposal made by the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U238	Thank you. First of all, on the first procedural remark, yes, I agree with you, the practice has been this way. However, if the voter wishes to clarify the amendment in one way or another, we have not prohibited it. Now for the second comment you made. When the commission proposes, it is always fully taken into account and therefore the President will not repeat it. If someone else proposes, for example, a third amendment in this case was proposed by Mr Herkel, the President will state the position of the commission on whether the proposal has been taken into account or not. Laine Randjärv, please ask a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U239	That's right. However, my comment was on the first amendment in which the President did not mention the decision of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U240	Thank you. We are on the third amendment. I shall put to the vote the third amendment tabled by Mr Herkel. Please take a stand and vote. 15 MPs voted in favour, 53 against and 1 abstention. The amendment was not supported. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U241	Thank you. The Free Party Group also calls for a vote on this proposal which enriches the stabilisation reserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U242	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you put the amendments to the vote, please take into account that a table of amendments has been distributed to everyone who has requested them, in which they are all specifically written. I shall begin the preparation of the vote. Can we go to the vote? Before the vote, there is a procedural question. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U243	Thank you, Mr President. I have a procedural question, since when is there a requirement that the amendment should not be commented on, while at the same time taking ten-minute breaks? I'd like an answer to that. And, according to my observations, not all our colleagues have any amendments ahead of us. In that case, before the vote, the Free Party Group shall request a ten-minute break so that colleagues can obtain a table of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U244	Would you like a ten-minute break?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U245	Yes, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U246	If you want a break, it must be taken at the moment when you propose to put the amendment to the vote, not after there has been a call. In this case, there's been a call sign. Is there really no table of amendments in the Chamber? This, of course, must be ensured by the lead committee. Martin Helme, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U247	That was the remark that no amendments were available. We're asking for a break until they're available.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U248	Imre Sooäär, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U249	Thank you. Same suggestion. Before you ran out of amendments printed on paper, you might be able to print them more.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U250	Well, we can still print them if they're not there. I will take the chairman's break five minutes and we will try to resolve this significant deficit on a rolling basis. Five-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U251	Good fellows! The break taken by the President has ended, but the tables of the amendments have not yet reached the Chamber. Looks like the biggest breaker in the world right now is the manager. I will extend the break for five minutes so that the tables of the amendments can reach the Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U252	Dear colleagues, the break taken by the President of the Riigikogu has ended. First of all, I apologize to you for not being in the hall. Surely it must be here when we discuss the items on the agenda. Are there any procedural questions about the amendments? No, it's not. We have come to the fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. I'll put it to a vote. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 38 members of the Riigikogu, 54 against and no abstentions 0 the proposal was not supported. Amendment 5... A procedural question, Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U253	I have this remark again that, although the President claims that he always says the position of the commission, this time we did not hear the President say what the position of the commission was. I am not asking you to vote on it again, but you could still follow this practice in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U254	Thank you. You cannot ask to vote on it again. Here's what the manager's gonna do. When I close the vote and come to the next amendment, for example, I say that 'the sixth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the lead committee is most likely to be taken into account. ' If anyone wants a vote, I'll ring the bell first and put the motion to the vote. I say: 'I am voting on the amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. ' And then I won't say a point of view, because I've said it before. We are on the fifth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U255	Thank you! And since Mrs Randjärv should not say that she did not hear anything, I note that the aim of this amendment is to give more money to raise teachers' salaries. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U256	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the fifth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 38 members of the Riigikogu, 54 against and no abstentions 0 the proposal was not supported. The sixth amendment has been tabled by Ms Aru, the position of the commission is to disregard it. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U257	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for this very intelligent proposal, which is aimed at funding science, to vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U258	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the sixth amendment tabled by Mrs Aru. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was not supported by the result of 24 members of the Riigikogu, against 52.0 abstentions. The seventh amendment is the position put forward by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the commission's position: not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U259	I would also ask for the seventh amendment to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U260	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the seventh amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 37 members of the Riigikogu, 54 against and 0 abstentions, the proposal was not supported. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U261	I would like to ask for the eighth amendment to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U262	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the eighth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please take a stand and vote. 37 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 55 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. This has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U263	I would like to ask you to put to the vote this proposal on the rise in doctoral grants.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U264	Thank you, good co-worker. Unfortunately, in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act, this proposal is not to be voted on. Let us move on to the tenth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. This has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U265	Thank you. We are asking for this proposal aimed at increasing doctoral student support to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U266	Thank you. I shall begin the preparation of the vote. I shall put to the vote the tenth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please take a stand and vote. 37 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 55 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Today's 11th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U267	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask your full attention and I would like to ask that the 11th EAMT Chamber be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U268	Thank you. A procedural question, Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U269	Thank you, good manager. This proposal is a special case because the Riigikogu itself has made a special decision in 1996 about the hall of the Music Academy. The proposal of the Free Party is noble, because the Riigikogu is set before the fact that at one point we need to find a way to build this hall. However, it is not clear from the Free Party's proposal how this work can be done. Their proposal is controversial. The number line of the proposal is 5 million, but 9.3 million in the explanatory memorandum. How can a hall be built only by building a roof and a foundation, leaving the walls unfinished? This object cannot be built with 5 million. It would have been correct if the author of the amendment had presented a comprehensive financing model to the Riigikogu so that we could vote. But that is not the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U270	Good co-worker, I don't think that's a procedural question. This is rather the comment of the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U271	President-in-Office of the Council. Can I explain the situation to Imre Sooäär and the content of the amendment proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U272	Good Andres Ammas, I think it is very good that members of the Riigikogu communicate with each other and explain their political visions and amendments to each other. Unfortunately, you can't do it through the microphone right now. We are at the 11th amendment tabled by Estonia... Andres Ammas, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U273	In order for me to be able to explain to Mr Sooäär the content of this amendment, I would like to ask for a five-minute break on behalf of the Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U274	Honourable fellows! Honourable fellow Andres Ammas! I can give a break at the moment I'm on the amendment. You must say immediately if you wish to put the motion to the vote. You didn't want this right now, so I can't give you a break. Unfortunately, that is the case. I shall put to the vote the 11th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 9 members of the Riigikogu, 61 against and 2 abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Today's 12th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U275	Please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U276	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 12th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 35 votes in favour and 53 against, the proposal was not supported. Today's 13th amendment has been tabled by Mr Lutsepp. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U277	On behalf of the Free Party Group, I would like to ask that this proposal be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U278	Thank you. I shall begin the preparation of the vote. I shall put to the vote the 13th amendment tabled by Mr Lutsepp. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 13 members of the Riigikogu, 54 against and 1 abstention, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 14 has been tabled by Mr Lutsepp, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U279	On behalf of the Free Party Group, I would like to ask that this proposal be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U280	Thank you. I will begin the preparation of the vote. I shall put to the vote the 14th amendment tabled by Mr Lutsepp. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 16 members of the Riigikogu and against 57, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 15 has been tabled by Mr Ammas, which has not been taken into account by the commission. The proposal is not subject to the vote pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. Amendment 16 has been tabled by Mr Ammas. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U281	On behalf of the Free Party Group, I would like to ask that this amendment be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U282	Thank you! Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 16th amendment tabled by Mr Ammas. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 14 members of the Riigikogu, 54 against and 3 abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 17 has been tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U283	On behalf of the Free Party Group, please put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U284	We respect the preparation of the vote. I shall put to the vote the 17th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please take a stand and vote. 34 members of the Riigikogu, 55 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 18 is tabled by the Estonian Centre Party Group. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U285	Thank you. Amendment 18 is to find the means for transitional support for agriculture. I ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U286	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 18th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was not supported by the result of 37 members of the Riigikogu, against 51 and 0 abstentions. Amendment 19 is tabled by Külmiki Hatter. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U287	On behalf of the Free Party Group, I would like to ask that this amendment be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U288	Thank you! Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 19th amendment tabled by Mrs Külmik's Hatter. I ask you to take a stand and vote. There are 24 members of the Riigikogu, 53 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 20 is tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. The proposal is not subject to the vote pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. Amendment 21 is tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U289	Thank you. The Free Party Group is asking for this proposal to be voted on in support of agriculture.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U290	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 21st amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. I ask you to take a stand and vote. There are 37 members of the Riigikogu in favour, 52 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 22 is tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U291	We are asking for this proposal for producer replacement support to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U292	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 22nd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please take a stand and vote. There are 37 members of the Riigikogu in favour, 53 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 23 is tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U293	We are also asking for this proposal for agriculture to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U294	Here's what we're gonna do. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 23rd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please take a stand and vote. There are 37 members of the Riigikogu in favour, 52 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Let us move on to Amendment 24, which is tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U295	We are asking for this proposal to be voted on and supported in support of start-ups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U296	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 24th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please take a stand and vote. There are 37 members of the Riigikogu in favour, 55 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 25th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U297	Thank you, Mr President. We are also asking for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U298	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 25th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 35 members of the Riigikogu and against 57, the proposal was not supported. The 26th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U299	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U300	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 26th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 37 members of the Riigikogu and 54 against, the proposal was not supported. Let us move on to Amendment 27 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U301	Thank you. We are asking for the vote on this proposal, which has been made to support voluntary rescue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U302	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 27th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please take a stand and vote. There are 36 members of the Riigikogu, 53 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 28 is tabled by Mr Adams. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U303	Thank you. I would like to ask the Free Party Group and Jüri Adams to vote on this proposal. It is aimed at political education.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U304	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 28th amendment tabled by Mr Adams. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 15 members of the Riigikogu, 56 against and 2 abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 29 has been tabled by Mr Talvik. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U305	Thank you, Mr President. Once again, on behalf of the Free Party Group and Artur Talvik, I would like to ask for the vote on this amendment, which supports the NGOs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U306	Thanks, let's try to make it work! I shall put to the vote the 29th amendment tabled by Mr Talvik. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 17 members of the Riigikogu and 55 against, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 30 has been tabled by Mr Talvik. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U307	Thank you, Mr President. We are asking for this proposal to be voted on in order to improve the rescue capacity.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U308	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 30th amendment tabled by Mr Talvik. Please take a stand and vote. There are 27 members of the Riigikogu, 53 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 31 has been tabled by Ms Haukanõm. This has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U309	Thank you. This time, on behalf of the Free Party Group and Monika Haukanõmme, I would like to vote on this proposal aimed at improving access to rehabilitation services.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U310	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? I'm not interrupting anyone, am I? I shall put to the vote the 31st amendment tabled by Mrs Haukanõmme. Please take a stand and vote. There are 26 members of the Riigikogu, 53 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 32 is tabled by Ms Haukanõmme. This has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U311	Thank you, Mr President. This time, we ask for a vote based on the objective of preventing fire accidents!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U312	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 32nd amendment tabled by Mrs Haukanõmme. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U313	There are 23 members of the Riigikogu, 53 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 33 has been tabled by Ms Haukamm. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U314	Thank you, Mr President. This time we call on everyone to support the opportunities for older people to learn.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U315	Where are you calling us? [[Laughter.]] Got it. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 33rd amendment tabled by Mrs Haukamm. Please take a stand and vote. There are 19 members of the Riigikogu in favour, 55 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Let us move on to Amendment 34, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U316	Thank you, Mr President. This time we call on us to vote and support the proposal serving the interests of the Estonian Union of the Blind.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U317	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 34th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 32 members of the Riigikogu and 52 against, the proposal was not supported. The 35th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U318	Thank you, Mr President. We ask you to vote and support this proposal, which serves the interests of the Estonian Cancer Association!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U319	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 35th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please take a stand and vote. There are 30 members of the Riigikogu in favour, 54 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 36 is tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U320	Thank you, Mr President. We ask that we vote and support this proposal, which serves the interests of Estonian women's shelters!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U321	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 36th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please take a stand and vote. 31 members of the Riigikogu, against 53, 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The 37th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U322	Thank you, Mr President. Finally, there is still an ambulance to support. I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U323	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 37th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please take a stand and vote. There are 32 members of the Riigikogu, 54 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 38 is tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. This has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U324	Thank you. We are asking for this proposal to be voted on in support of local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U325	Thank you! Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 38th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please take a stand and vote. There are 32 members of the Riigikogu in favour, 54 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Dear colleagues, thank you for your cooperation in examining the amendments. The amendments have been examined. The position of the commission is that the second reading of draft 103 must be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft, including 25 November at 3 p.m. The second reading is closed and the third item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U326	We will move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Act amending the State Budget Act 2015 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Finance Committee, Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U327	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the draft at its meeting on 12 and 16 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U328	Good waitress, I apologize to you! Dear colleagues, I ask that we respect the waitress and those who wish to listen to others at the hearing. There's too much noise in the hall. Thank you. Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U329	No amendments were received from the political groups, committees or members of the Riigikogu by the deadline of 16 November at 10 a.m. At its meeting, the Commission took the following consensual decisions: to place the draft on the agenda by Wednesday 18 November, to propose that the second reading be closed and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 15 November. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U330	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? It is. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U331	President-in-Office of the Council. Respectable waitress! I have a more theoretical question. If, during the financial year, more income tax is paid to the state budget than planned, is there also an additional budget that simply does not reallocate expenditure between ministries, but allows any plans that have not been made before due to lack of money to be carried out? This spring, for example, Swedbank announced that they would withdraw the dividend in exceptional circumstances, which would result in a large amount of income tax being collected in the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U332	Thank you. I know that the government has decided to direct the income tax on this dividend to a reserve and a positive supplementary budget, as you yourself said, will not be planned for the use of some unforeseen money. Since this is a one-off payment, i.e. it cannot be taken into account in the 2016 budget base, it is also a logical step.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U333	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U334	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, do I understand you correctly that such a large amount will pass the Riigikogu and its fate will only be decided by the Government of the Republic?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U335	After all, this is about receiving money into the budget and it is not necessary for the Riigikogu to take any separate decision. It does not matter whether it is additional VAT receipts, additional income tax receipts from dividends or higher than expected social tax receipts. In such a good way, no separate decisions have been expected. It's just additional budget revenue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U336	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The explanatory memorandum to this draft state budget states that there are 832 more projects financed from structural support funds for the previous period, which can be carried out until the end of the year. Did you check in the Commission how much they were worth? There's still a lot of them, but there's not enough time until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U337	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U338	Thank you. If there are 832, as you are referring to, there is a high probability that by the end of the year all projects will not be realised and the money will be used, they will be transferred to the next year. Here I call on all members of the Riigikogu to participate in the round table held by Praxis on 1 December. In particular, Praxis has examined the use of structural funds for the previous European Union budget period, how well-targeted it has been and whether the objectives have been met. This is going a little bit past your question, but I wanted it to be announced in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. On 1 December at 10 a.m., this event will begin in our conference hall and I believe that there will also be a very accurate overview of the previous period, as Estonia has successfully used these resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U339	Good waitress, thank you for your report and your answers. But there are more questions for you. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U340	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to clarify whether the Commission was even looking at the size of the financial volume of these 832 projects. There is a number of these projects, but there is no mention of the amount that can be obtained from them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U341	These are likely to be millions of euros, but the Commission did not so closely examine it. If there is any interest, we can, of course, clarify it with the help of the Ministry of Finance and give you this number, i.e. how much is the financial volume of these projects.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U342	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. Second reading of bill 120 is complete. I will set the deadline of 20 November at 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U343	The second reading of the Social Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Act amending the Income Tax Act and other laws and the Bill amending the Income Tax Act and the Social Tax Act begins. A waitress from the Monetary Commission, Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U344	Honorable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! As a reminder, this draft initiated by the Government of the Republic will delay the planned increases in excise duties on fuel by 1 January 2016 by one month, i.e. February 1, 2016. The deadline for amendments was 4 November. No proposals were received from the Riigikogu. This draft was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 12 November and two amendments were made, prepared in cooperation between the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Ministry of Finance. The meeting was attended by Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Kristi Tähk, Head of Staff of the European Union Secretariat of the State Chancellery. The first amendment concerns the exemption from the daily allowance payable to national experts posted from Estonia and the exemption from the allowance for additional and retraining expenses paid to military personnel under the Defence Forces Service Act. The first part of the amendment concerns the exemption for officials and staff seconded by Estonian government agencies and other public authorities to the institutions and bodies of the European Union as national experts. Exemption shall be granted in respect of daily subsistence allowances, travel, accommodation and other expenses payable by those institutions and bodies. This regulation ensures equal treatment of experts in tax matters on the basis of other analogous cases mentioned in the Income Tax Act. For example, there is already an exemption for the daily allowance paid to an expert participating in a technical assistance and communication project in the European Union. The second part of the first amendment concerns the exemption of the costs of retraining in the case of an active military member who participated in an international military operation under the Defence Forces Service Act and an active military member who has suffered permanent damage to health due to the performance of his duties or is therefore exempted from active service.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U345	One moment, please! Ladies and gentlemen, let's honor the waitress. Thank you. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U346	Thank you. To put it simply, in the future, compensation paid to compensate for the cost of further training and retraining will not be regarded as a salary for the persons mentioned above. Such benefits are paid to military personnel in the cases mentioned in the Defence Forces Service Act in order to prepare them for a civil occupation or for a position other than that of the former service. This concerns veterans participating in missions and other military personnel. The first amendment had 7 members in favour of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, no one opposed and 4 abstentions. With the second amendment, the Commission will specify the time of entry into force of the draft act. Date of entry into force proposed by the originator, i.e. a 1 November did not prove realistic, as there would not have been enough time left for the draft to be processed and for the law to be declared and published. The amendment shall provide for 1 January of the following year at the time of entry into force. This amendment was supported by the Commission in a consensual manner. The Commission also took a procedural decision to close the second reading of the draft. On the debate in the Commission, I can add a few things. This focused on the justification and necessity of these additional exemptions. It was clarified that this was equal treatment on the basis of similar cases. It also addressed how many people are affected by the law, the effects of the exemption and a number of more detailed issues. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U347	There are questions for the waitress. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U348	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, would you please clarify to the large Chamber how many people specifically this amendment, which was last dealt with in the Commission, concerns?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U349	Thank you, Andres Ammas! First of all, there are two sides to this amendment. There are currently 24 people seconded as experts to the institutions of the European Union. It is likely that there will be four additional people next year. This figure is higher because Estonia is the Presidency of the European Union in 2018, i.e. we normally have 10 to 15 people a year. With regard to defence forces, veterans and their training and retraining costs, we are talking about the needs of between six and nine people an year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U350	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U351	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Did you also discuss with the representatives of the Ministry of Finance how they bring their mistakes before the Riigikogu? This bill itself began, as I understand it, with a failure of one date. This was accompanied by changes which were first sought by the Accounting Act to send to the Economic Commission and which have finally landed in this draft law as an amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U352	Thank you, Andres Herkel! Indeed, the explanatory memorandum describes such a course of action. It may be recalled here that this bill was, in fact, already on the agenda in the last weeks of the previous Riigikogu, but was not dealt with in the short term. I'm not the person who calls all these intermediate moves a failure. At the moment, there has been a path of understanding or principles in order for our experts to be on an equal footing with experts from other countries, because they all compete there for these positions and it would be financially more beneficial for the country if such tax relief were granted. As far as military personnel and veterans are concerned, it is important that these people receive retraining to move to civilian specialties. It's necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U353	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U354	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I actually meant, by mistake, the essence of this draft, which concerns the date on which excise increases are postponed. If this were to be raised as a question, did the Commission also consider that these increases in excise duty would take effect from 1 April?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U355	Dear Andres Herkel! This matter was not considered at second reading in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U356	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Two amendments to bill 99 have been tabled. Let's go through them: the first and the second. The second reading of bill 99 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U357	The second reading of the draft Act 101 amending the Law on the Organisation of the Fisheries Market, initiated by the Government of the Republic, will begin when the five-minute break of the President is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U358	Let's get back to the hearing. I'm happy to inform you that the waitress has been found. Please, Einar Vallbaum, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U359	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Protocol 29 to the meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs of the Riigikogu: Draft Act 101 amending the Law on the Organisation of the Fisheries Market, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the draft amendments was 4 November 2015. By this time the members of the Riigikogu, the political groups and other committees did not propose amendments. The Commission approved one technical and two linguistic corrections. Commission decisions: propose the end of the second reading of the draft and send it to third reading when the second is closed by 25 November 2015 and propose the final vote on the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U360	Are there any questions for the Commission's rapporteur? There are no questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Second reading of bill 101 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U361	The first reading of Draft Act 119 on the amendment of the Guarantee Fund Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. The initiating waitress, Secretary of Finance Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U362	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will give you an overview of the draft law amending the Guarantee Fund Act and related amendments to other laws, which is numbered 119. The overall objective of the draft is to increase the confidence of depositors in order to better protect them from the consequences of the potential insolvency of banks. Perhaps if the bank went bankrupt, the depositor would receive compensation for the money deposited with the bank as soon as possible. In the European Union, deposits can only be accepted from the public by a bank that has joined the deposit guarantee system operating in that country. In Estonia, a legal person governed by public law, i.e. the Guarantee Fund, has been offering protection to depositors since 1998. In addition to depositors, the Guarantee Fund shall ensure the protection of the funds of clients of investment institutions, unit-holders of pension funds and clients of insurance undertakings. However, this draft amends, in particular, the provisions on deposit guarantee. I will also bring out here the most important changes that accompany this draft. Firstly, the draft states more clearly and specifically which deposits the Guarantee Fund guarantees. The deposit will continue to be secured with interest of up to EUR 100000 for each depositor in one bank, this principle will not change. As an update, the draft stipulates that, if a person has recently sold residential property, in addition to the proceeds of the sale, up to EUR 50000 is guaranteed, within six months of the receipt of the purchase-sale money. According to the draft, it will therefore be possible to receive compensation of up to EUR 150000 instead of the current EUR 100000. Secondly, the Guarantee Fund is currently compensating for any so-called financial product called a deposit by the bank. In practice, however, a person may not always recover in full the amount initially invested in a deposit-like product, such as an investment deposit with a risk premium. Perhaps this is not a 'classical deposit'. The draft provides that the Guarantee Fund only guarantees deposits for which the bank is obliged under the contract to repay the principal amount of the deposit. It also provides that deposits from other banks and financial institutions are not guaranteed. Among other things, the deposits of companies issuing consumer loans, i.e. land languages, are not guaranteed. Only deposits from private individuals and ordinary companies are guaranteed. Thirdly, the draft reduces the time limit for payment of benefits to depositors in the event of bank bankruptcy. If a bank were to go bankrupt today, the benefits should be paid to depositors within 20 working days, which will have to be done within seven working days. This should be a sufficiently short period of time during which most depositors will receive their money from the Guarantee Fund. Fourthly, a more precise obligation is laid down for banks to provide depositors with information on their deposit guarantee. The depositor must be provided with personal information on which of his deposits are covered and which are not. Perhaps it should contain information that a fixed-term deposit is secured and can be reimbursed but is not a deposit-like product with an investment risk that is not repayable at the nominal value of the principal. This obligation for banks will apply on 31 May 2016. Fifthly, the draft also makes it possible for banks to finance the Guarantee Fund. Banks make "prepayments' to the Guarantee Fund and funds received from banks have been collected from the Guarantee Fund up to EUR 209 million today. In the future, banks will continue to make payments in the same way, but this will be partly dependent on the level of risk of the banks. Perhaps, in a simplistic way, the contributions of banks taking more risks in their activities may increase somewhat. For example, for banks that invest their funds in risky instruments or whose capital levels are not sufficiently high. It also provides for the possibility of exceptional payments to be made in the event that the funds already collected by the Deposit Insurance Fund are not sufficient in the event of a compensation event. This will allow banks to ask for additional resources in a crisis situation. Sixthly, the draft governs the cooperation of the Guarantee Fund with deposit guarantee systems in other countries. Among other things, it regulates how the Guarantee Fund can borrow funds from other similar systems or vice versa. However, all of this is voluntary, i.e. no obligation to lend money to anyone. This is purely the responsibility of the Board of the Guarantee Fund, i.e. to decide whether and how much money to lend to the deposit guarantee system in some countries. In addition, it is important to note that the Guarantee Fund currently only guarantees deposits of banks authorised in Estonia, i.e. deposits of banks established in Estonia as a public limited company. The deposits of a bank acting as a branch in Estonia are secured by the guarantee scheme of the Member State in which the bank's head office is situated. This approach will continue to apply. The law enters into force in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U363	Questions to the originator's waitress. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U364	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, The directive that we are transposing also gives choices. The question is, if the IGS now includes, as a new element, the amounts received from the transaction for residential real estate, then why did you decide that this amount must be EUR 50000? This is actually the median price of the dwelling, the median price of the dwelling is much higher. Why couldn't this amount have been higher in the bill? Why did you stick to that 50,000?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U365	Thank you. In itself, the transposition of this European Union directive started already in 2008 when we learned the first lessons of the financial crisis. The effect of this is to sum up the entire system of guarantee funds in the countries, also in Estonia, and the idea of the directive is included. Today's agreement is EUR 50000, but if you think a larger amount could be foreseen, it is parliamentary logic that we are dealing with a bill that has several readings, and we can come back to it. To date, the government has come to the conclusion that it could be EUR 50000.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U366	Thank you. No further questions. The rapporteur of the Monetary Commission is Aivar Sõerd. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U367	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Guarantee Fund Act and related amendments to other laws at its meeting on 9 November. Thomas Honourable and Chief Specialist Kadri Siibak, Head of the Financial Markets Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, were also invited to the meeting. The initiator's representative, Thomas Honourable, presented the draft and, as the Minister said, the initiator's representative in the Commission stressed that the changes would increase the confidence of depositors in order to better protect them from the consequences of a possible bankruptcy of banks. The draft act is based on the relevant directive of the European Union, and it has also been stressed that only the deposits of private individuals and ordinary companies are guaranteed for the account of the Guarantee Fund's savings sub-fund. From a risk premium investment deposit where the amount initially invested may not be fully recovered, the GmbH will no longer ensure. The amount of deposit guaranteed, up to and including interest of EUR 100000 for each depositor in one bank, remains unchanged. In addition, the bill provides the person who sold the residential property with up to EUR 50000 of the money from the sale, which I asked the originator about a moment ago. This money shall be secured within six months of the receipt of the money from the purchase/purchase transaction. Members of the Commission also asked questions. There was an interest in the remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund. According to the representative of the Ministry, the Estonian Banking Association has proposed that no remuneration be paid to the members of the Supervisory Board. At the same time, the representative of the initiator of the draft said that it was not specifically the subject of this draft. Members of the Commission were also interested in whether the Guarantee Fund was linked to a firm bank and whether the citizen would always get his money back. The answer was that the Guarantee Fund was not linked to a particular bank and that citizens would receive a refund, but no more than EUR 100000 per depositor in a single credit institution. It was also asked whether the law to be created would increase the amount of the guarantee and whether Latvia had the same level of security. According to a representative of the Ministry, the amount of the guarantee in respect of real estate is increasing and Latvia also has a general ceiling of EUR 100000. This was briefly the course of the debate in the Commission. Here is what the Commission decided. Firstly, it was decided to appoint a rapporteur for the draft and, secondly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 18 November. The Commission also decided to propose the completion of the first reading of the draft and finally to propose the deadline for amendments to be set at 2 December 2015. All these proposals were consensual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U368	Are there any questions for the Commission's rapporteur? No, it's not. Thank you, Aivar Sõerd! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is to finish the first reading of bill 119, and there are no other proposals. I will set the deadline for submitting the draft amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 2 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U369	The first reading of the draft Act amending the Packaging Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The initiator's waitress is Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U370	Good evening, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I say, as Minister Rein Lang once said on the draft here, that this is a very good bill. And I also have this kind of offer this time, perhaps not every time there is a draft law amending the Packaging Act. It is prepared by the Ministry of the Environment and the draft law amends the requirements for carrying out an audit of the data submitted to the packaging register. First, all packaging companies that place on the market less than five tonnes of packaging per year will be exempted from auditing. There are approximately 2000 such companies in Estonia. The second amendment concerns undertakings which place on the market more than five tonnes of packaging per year and have not transferred their obligations to the recycling organisation. There are four re-use organisations: Estonian Re-use Organisation MTÜ, Producer Liability Organisation OÜ, NGO Eesti Pandipakend OÜ and Eesti Pandipakend OÜ. As of 1 January 2016, these companies will be required to carry out an audit on the basis of a limited degree of assurance. Less procedures must be carried out in the case of limited insuranceing employment than in the case of justified insuranceing employment provided for in the amending Act. This reduces the administrative burden on packaging companies and is expected to reduce the cost of the packaging audit. It is estimated that the time taken to carry out the audit may be reduced by up to 10 hours, as the subsequent mandatory packaging control weighing, for example, will be omitted for the preparation of which the packaging company is involved. Given the average cost of an auditor's working hour of EUR 50, the cost of the packaging audit may be reduced by an estimated EUR 500. The purpose of the draft law is to exempt small and medium-sized packaging companies from the obligation to audit packaging and to reduce the administrative burden on other packaging companies and recycling organisations and the costs of carrying out packaging audits. Once the Act enters into force, the Packaging Register Regulation will also be amended and the deadline for submission of audited data will be extended from 30 June to 1 September. The draft law affects all packaging companies and recycling organisations, making their packaging audit activities easier and less costly. Therefore, I note that this is a bill that takes into account small and medium-sized packaging companies and makes it easier for other packaging companies and recycling organisations to carry out their packaging audit activities. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U371	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U372	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Looks like you've really brought a nice bill to this hall. It is a pleasure to take part in its proceedings! But I'd like to make sure five grand is still the most accurate and accurate threshold. Would you once again explain in more detail how it was precisely on such a threshold that this five ton was justified? Is this really the threshold now?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U373	I daresay this is the right threshold. This is due to this logic that if all Estonian packaging companies are taken, the packaging companies above this five-tonne requirement will market 98% of the packaging in Estonia. And on the basis of a 5% error rate for packaging audits, we will stay in it very nicely and achieve a good result when 2,000 packaging companies, for example, I know a small shoe shop in Rakvere, who had this obligation so far, do not have to carry out a packaging audit anymore, but most of the packages are still audited and the calculation is correct. That's why I don't think there's anything more to explain about this threshold.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U374	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U375	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. I had an educational opportunity to discuss this draft law with a company that is directly affected. He pointed out such a fact, or indeed the question, whether the possibility of distinguishing between types of packaging was not considered when drawing up the draft. Re-use organisations do know the difference and ask for a very different price depending on whether it is a sales or a transport package. Is it not considered here, or is it wise to consider such an opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U376	There is only one difference in the current law: 100 kg per year applies to plastic packaging and 200 kg for other types of packaging. So there is no other distinction in the current law and this has not been discussed in this draft, at least not in the premises where I have been discussing the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U377	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U378	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Small businesses are said to have heard such a promise that they will also be able to escape the audit of the results of the 2004 year. Has there been any talk about it or allowed it to happen to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U379	Thanks! We can talk about 2014 instead of 2004. There was just a little slip. But no, I can't afford that. If 60% of the packaging companies that have had audit obligations have fulfilled this task by today, I, as Minister, will certainly expect the rest of the 40%.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U380	Thank you to Mr Pomerants, Minister for the Environment, representative of the initiator of the draft. The rapporteur for the Environment Committee is Rein Ratas, Vice-President of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U381	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! The Committee on the Environment discussed the draft law amending the Packaging Act at its two meetings on 13 October and 12 November. a. Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants, Head of the Waste Department of the Ministry of the Environment Peeter Eek and Chief Specialist Marika Siht, Inspector General Rene Rajasalu, Head of Department of the Tax and Customs Board Jaanus Värk and leading persons from the Auditor Collection, Chamber of Commerce and Industry, A-Tolliagentuur Association, Estonian Re-use Organisation, Estonian Pandipakend and Estonian Packaging Circular took part in the discussion. The Commission's meetings addressed the problem of auditing and supervision of packaging. Including explaining why we are raising the mandatory threshold for auditing, which under the current regime is 100 kg for plastic packaging and 200 kg for packaging of other materials, to five tonnes. How can this affect environmental conditions? If we bring the threshold to five tonnes by law, not by ministerial order, it will involve 2 000 packaging companies and only 2% of the total quantity of packaging that is placed on the market. As explained by the Ministry of the Environment, the margin of error allowed for the packaging audit is 5% and the margin of error allowed for this five-tonne threshold is also 2% of the quantity of packaging placed on the market. Thus, the Commission's meetings found that the environmental impact resulting from this change in the threshold rate is irrelevant. The question also arose as to whether the audit obligation was necessary at all. The discussions found that there is still one. It is in the interests of monitoring the recycling of packaging, obtaining excise duties on packaging and avoiding VAT fraud that an audit is still necessary. The discussions also found that packaging companies, especially small businesses, would benefit quite significantly from the proposed amendment to the threshold. Aivo Kangus, Chairman of the Management Board of NGO Eesti Pakkergu, proposed several times that the reduced requirements that will apply next year according to the draft should be applied retroactively to the auditing of packaging data. This is also the case for the previous year, 2014. The Minister of the Environment explained that such an unequal situation would be put in the hands of packaging companies who behaved in a law-abiding manner and therefore, in his view, this proposal could not be supported. Following the discussion of the question, the Commission also did not consider retrospective implementation to be appropriate. Indeed, the question arose as to whether those law-abiding persons who have carried out an audit should be compensated by the State for being law-abiding, since others would be able to escape without the corresponding cost. At the meeting of the Commission on 12 November, it decided unanimously to propose the inclusion of a draft 125 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 18 November. a, propose that the first reading of this draft be stopped, propose that the deadline for amendments to the draft be fixed at 12 noon on 20 November 2015 and appoint the speaker to act as rapporteur. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U382	Are there any questions for the Commission's rapporteur? No, it's not. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading of draft law 125. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 12 noon on 20 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U383	The first reading of the draft 131 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the NATO reaction forces', submitted by the Government of the Republic, begins. The initiator's waitress is Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U384	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! With this draft, we wish to use up to 210 Defence Forces active forces, if necessary, from 1 January of the following year until 31 December of the following year, in a military operation to preserve or restore peace and security within the NRF, and in another military mission or operation in accordance with generally accepted practices and principles of international law. NRF is a high command unit capable of carrying out military operations at any point in the world. It is also worth noting that the NRF is not intended for long-term operations, but for NATO's rapid response capability. He has a key role to play in launching NATO collective defence operations with very short notice. In this context, it is also worth noting that the 210 defence forces who are "reserved" are generally located in Estonia during this period, with the exception of the NRF exercises. They are also prepared, if necessary, to participate in operations assigned to the NRF without asking for an additional mandate. The NRF will be directed to the operation as a result of NATO's consensual political decision-making process, of which Estonia will of course participate. And these 210 active troops are an infantry company with a logistics element, special forces, a mine hunter's crew and staff officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U385	Any questions for the waitress? It is. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U386	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! It is clear from the explanatory memorandum that the aim is to increase NRF personnel to 40000. Are we going "synchronously" now, and that 40,000 can be achieved?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U387	Thank you, good questioner! All the right targets are ambitious. If we take into account the size of the Estonian Defence Forces, our contribution to this specific framework is commensurate with the size of our forces. And I think we're going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U388	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U389	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! All kinds of decisions must be seen in the temporal context, and now is the moment when the greatest focus is on the terrorist acts that have taken place here and there. This decision is completely imputable to it and looks like a response to the corresponding acts of terrorism. What would have happened if this decision had been taken, for example, two weeks ago? Or what would happen if it were adopted two months later? Maybe it'll be better and calmer. What do we gain by adopting this decision today?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U390	The decision will enter into force as of 1 January next year and France has decided to use Article 42 (7) of the Treaty of Lisbon, i.e. the point of mutual assistance, to request assistance. There's no connection between these things. We have a commitment to the allies to keep the unit in service, and this is exactly the same every year. And with day politics, the events that took place last Friday, 13 November in France, there is no specific connection.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U391	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U392	Good President! Good minister! Let me get this straight. This is the bill called the "blank bill"?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U393	The answer is short: no.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U394	No further questions. Thank you. The rapporteur for the National Defence Committee is Madis Milling. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U395	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft decision with number 131 before submitting it to the first reading, including at its meeting on 11 November. Mr Hanso, Minister of Defence, and officials of the Ministry of Defence, took part in this meeting as a representative of the Government. The draft is also directly affected by the meeting of the National Defence Commission, including 10 November, where the members of the committee received an overview from Brigadier General Artur Tiganik, Deputy Commander of the Defence Forces, and other Defence Forces officers of our preparations for participating in the international mission areas of the Estonian Defence Forces and participating in the NATO response forces NRF mentioned in the draft decision. At its meeting on 11 November, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to appoint a speaker to act as rapporteur for the Commission. The National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft under discussion be included on the agenda for the first reading of today's sitting of the Riigikogu. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft under discussion and set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 2 December. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U396	Questions for the Commission's rapporteur. There aren't any. Thank you, Madis Milling!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U397	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U398	I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading of draft decision 131. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 2 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U399	And now the first reading of Bill 132 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on the peace-building mission in Kosovo', submitted by the Government of the Republic, begins. The initiator's waitress is Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U400	Dear Riigikogu! Draft decision of the Riigikogu to participate in the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U401	Mr. Minister! We're at 132 on the draft decision right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U402	I'm sorry, I had a little bit of a mix-up here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U403	It's okay, the Riigikogu always helps.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U404	The draft is about extending the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in Kosovo. This is a very long-term peace-building mission, where Estonia has participated since 1999. This is not a major mission for our Defence Forces, and in 2016 we wish to continue the mission KFOR on the same scale as last year, i.e. we are applying for a mandate for up to three active troops. We are now actually participating in the field with two active troops and the Estonian active troops are serving as staff officers and staff officers at the KFOR headquarters in Priština. What is happening in the Balkans remains important and it is also important that the region is as stable and calm as possible. It is therefore important that we also make a modest contribution to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U405	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U406	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister, please explain to me whether foreign missions are conducted by order of the armed forces and officers sent there, or only by volunteers. And how voluntary is this volunteering? What are their material incentives and social guarantees?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U407	Thank you for your question. In general, our direction is that about 10% of the peacetime active force be deployed on missions. There is a consensus on this in the other countries with which we participate in the operations. As far as salaries are concerned, the mission does indeed have its own levels of pay and so-called mission allowances. Social guarantees are, of course, guaranteed to the Defence Forces. As far as volunteering is concerned, of course, people cannot be forced to go on missions. On the contrary, I think that among the members of the Defence Forces, participation in such missions is very popular, both in terms of experience and material aspects, and of the desire to contribute in this format. So we don't have that concern.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U408	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U409	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states one sentence that the aim of international forces and Estonia is to support the government of Kosovo in ensuring security and stability in the country. Please state, in the public interest, the most important incidents in the last few years that have occurred there in order to guarantee security and stability.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U410	Thank you. The aim is that there are no incidents in this country so that it can develop and function peacefully. It is in everyone's interest that Western Balkans, let's say, the southern corner of Europe, be stable and peaceful. There's no way I can name any specific incidents here right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U411	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur for the National Defence Committee is Ain Lutsepp. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U412	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Colleagues! The Minister has already discussed more specifically the participation of the Estonian Defence Forces in the mission of Kosovo. I will be attending the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 10 November, where Brigadier General Artur Tiganik, Deputy Commander of the Defence Forces, and other Defence Forces officers, who gave an overview of the Defence Forces units in the mission areas and of the preparations for the continuation of the Kosovo mission. So this question was also touched upon. At the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 11 November this year, Defence Minister Hannes Hanso and representatives of the Ministry of Defence presented a draft mission for Kosovo. At its meeting on 11 November, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft under discussion be included for the first reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu including the meeting on 18 November. The rapporteur for the Commission was appointed here. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft decision be terminated and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 2 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U413	Are there any questions for the Commission's rapporteur? No, it's not. Thank you, Ain Lutsepp! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The first reading of draft decision 132 has been completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 2 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U414	And only now will we be discussing the decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union's military mission EUNAVFOR Med' draft 133. First reading begins. Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U415	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This draft Riigikogu decision allows up to two active troops to be used in the next year as part of a European Union military mission called EUNAVFOR Med (European Union naval forces in the Mediterranean). We all know that what is happening in the Mediterranean is a concern for the European continent and for the Member States of the European Union and for other countries in quite a number of respects. Therefore, the European Union has decided to address the causes of the crisis in the next phase and in cooperation with the countries of origin and transit of human trafficking, and to prevent the spread of trafficking in human beings and the development of a related criminal network in the Mediterranean Sea. The participation of military actives in this process will also allow for new experience in this field. We have a staff officer in Rome right now. We're asking for a mandate to send another Defence Forces officer, if necessary, and possibly a rotation procedure, they both have to be there. One extra seat will make our participation in the mission more flexible so that two Defence Forces officers can be present during the rotation period. As I said, the first phase of Operation EUNAVFOR Med is complete. Phase 2a is underway, under which vessels used for trafficking in human beings are detained, searched and confiscated on the high seas, i.e. in international waters. We would, of course, like to move further into the second stage, i.e. to have the right to enter the territorial waters of Libya as well, but for that we need the mandate of the UN Security Council and the agreement of the Libyan Government. At present, however, Libya does not have a government that can control the coastline. The European Union, as a community of law and international law, must take account of the rules in its actions and, as far as possible, we will do so within the framework of the existing mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U416	Questions for the Minister. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U417	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. I would ask you to clarify whether our participation in such a limited number of participants is due to the fact that, in short, we are no longer needed there, or we do not have the capacity to do so. If this operation moves from one phase to the next, could this staff grow? Will you come to the Riigikogu again?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U418	Thank you, good questioner! It's all right. If the need for our participation should increase, we will definitely come to the Riigikogu with a new proposal if we can contribute and we have the means to contribute. So, yes, then we will come back to the Riigikogu with this subject. At the moment, our contribution is in line with what has been asked of us. The operation is important and, if the European Union receives a mandate for extended action, we will certainly consider the possibility of increasing our participation, taking into account our capabilities. In the future, it cannot be excluded that there will be some kind of basis for participation in this mandate, which concerns the central Mediterranean area between Italy and Malta, but is not on the agenda at the moment. So it's too early to make such promises about the future. But as a good and responsible Member State of the European Union, Estonia will certainly agree to discuss increasing its contribution if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U419	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U420	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! This operation has been going on for almost six months. What do you think are the reasons why he has not been successful? The fact that the Mediterranean is unstable and that human trafficking is rampant there has long been known. What are the reasons why this mission has not been successful enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U421	To measure success or failure, we need to know that if we weren't there, what would be. As I have already mentioned, our big problem is that there is no central government in Libya with which binding and binding agreements can be concluded. Only yesterday, when I attended the meeting of the European Union's defence ministers, the High Representative for Foreign Policy of the European Union, Mogherini, spoke of the fact that talks with Libya, which is being tried to reach an agreement, have not been fruitful precisely because the coastline is actually controlled by forces whose wishes may be very different. Apparently, at least some part of them will also benefit from human trafficking. This is why a new approach has been taken to agree to restrict the movement of people to countries also south of Libya. I, too, hope that this operation will be more successful in the future than it has been so far. It's work all the time. But if there is no partner, it will be very difficult for a law-abiding organisation, such as the European Union, to take such steps unilaterally. Rules are rules!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U422	Good manager! Mr. Secretary of Defense! I remember a while ago your predecessor, Secretary of Defense Aavixol, was itching to take our boys, just like Libya. So we also have some responsibility for the hole that yawns at the southern border of the European Union. My question is about these two officers, it's like two hairs in three rows. What do you think that this group could be much, much larger, should be multiplied by ten, bearing in mind that problems should be solved where they arise and not deal with them here on their own borders or in Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U423	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U424	Thank you, good questioner! The Estonian state must first defend itself in its region and then, if possible and if necessary, away from its region. We have been trying to do this in a very balanced way over the years, i.e. by balancing the need to be both on the ground and away, to do the same. The Estonian state is not responsible for what is happening in Libya. Estonia did not participate in this military operation, which was carried out a good number of years ago in Libya. Increasing the number of active troops, extending the scope of our participation, still depends on the specific needs and mandates on which we can act. When I answered the previous questions, I described what these mandates are, and now our contribution is in line with what the requirements are.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U425	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U426	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, One might ask, who, and with what arguments, is holding back the launch of the third stage in the UN Security Council, but I also look at the terminological difference between the second and third stages. The second stage allows vessels to be confiscated on the high seas. I expect it to be somewhat more complicated than destroying them on the coast, which requires either the agreement of Libya or the mandate of the Security Council. What is the range of the difference between these two steps? And how will this confiscation actually take place or take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U427	Thank you. I can answer so much that, on the basis of this mandate, we cannot return these vessels to Libya's territorial waters, and if I remember correctly now, I repeat that, if I remember correctly, more than 40 vessels had been confiscated from human smugglers yesterday. They were not allowed to drift back, they were not left at sea, but they were taken to Italy, where human smugglers and their networks could not naturally go after them. There have also been quite a number of arrests of human traffickers, I think, to the same extent. I, too, would like us to be able to go further, but we are unfortunately not in a position to do so at this point in time. So the next stage would also allow us to go to the territorial waters of Libya and to operate there, but we cannot do that now. But we can take control of the vessels. So this mandate, however, is broader and somewhat more robust than the previous ones.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U428	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U429	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. How many members of the European Union are orientally participating in this action now? And if you go to the next stage, how much do you need to increase this contingent?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U430	Thank you, good questioner! A number of Member States of the European Union are participating in the operation, under the mandate of the European Union, but some are also participating in the operation under bilateral agreements. Ireland, for example, has a bilateral agreement with Italy. I cannot tell the exact number of countries in front of you now, but the number of participating countries, as well as the contribution, is sufficient to fulfil the existing mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U431	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U432	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, From your previous answers, I did not quite understand how initiativeful Estonia has been in this operation at all. Have we tried to take any initiative to ensure that the Council of the European Union is less decisive in its actions and that this second phase is taken more quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U433	Thank you. The European Union is as decisive as international law, which we must respect, at this point in time. We are ready for greater determination than we can agree with Libya, i.e. Libya has a government with which such agreements can be made, and the UN Security Council. If there is one question that is partly answered, there is at least one country in the UN Security Council that is blocking a broader mandate. This country is Russia. I know that the extension of the mandate of 2a, on the basis of which we are operating, has also been a country in Africa, a rotating member of the UN Security Council, Chad. And at the very last minute, an agreement was reached on this. But once again, the number of our people on the mission is now sufficient. If necessary, i.e. if a mandate and opportunity should arise, we will of course also discuss with the Riigikogu the possible increase in our participation in political consultations.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U434	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U435	Head of the good Riigikogu and Minister of Defence! I'll pick up where I left off. Estonia has been on the initiative in many parts of the world, and would it not be possible for Estonia to take the initiative here to increase our participation? I think we would have ambassadors in the Riigikogu who would be happy to accept it, because it is such an important hole that should be plugged in. And if we're talking here about the need for two men and no more mandates, then actually the hole is a hole, and the sticking of it stretches without knowing how long.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U436	Thank you, good questioner! Estonia's contribution to dealing with these issues is certainly not limited to the participation of defence forces. We all know that, for example, 25 police officers have been sent to Slovenia from the Ministry of the Interior to deal with the same problems that have reached us across the Mediterranean (at least partially). And the Ministry of the Interior, the Police and Border Guard Board, will contribute significantly with greater resources to the regions where refugees come from. But we're talking specifically about the Defence Forces here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U437	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U438	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! In your previous answers, you mentioned that not all traffickers will be caught because there are legal obstacles. Please mention these legal obstacles. And what is the action plan to overcome legal obstacles?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U439	Thank you. The key here is that we have a valid legal space on the other side of the Mediterranean. This is not the case for Libya at present. Most of the activities and the coordination of these activities, as far as I know, are taking place precisely on that side of the sea. And the prosecution of someone in this region is very complicated, perhaps even impossible. That is the content of the problem. If human traffickers have managed to catch up in international waters, as I have already mentioned, it has been done dozens of times, and they are being convicted here, i.e. on the European Union side (usually in Italy, perhaps in Malta or in another country), they will also get their sentence.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U440	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U441	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, We are not likely to be able to influence or rear Russia in the UN Security Council. But if you said here that about 40 vessels have been confiscated at sea outside Libyan water, are you ready to say how many of them are estimated to drift and operate,'smuggling'? And if we cannot legally solve these problems, would it not be the right way to increase capacity in international waters? I am thinking about the contribution of European countries as a whole, including Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U442	Thank you very much. No one can really say today how many of these vessels are drifting, I think. The territory is extensive. The Libyan coastline itself is, in my opinion, at least 1,000 kilometres long, perhaps even longer. It's impossible for anyone to control it all at once. And, of course, we also know cases where the bases have drowned on the road. I think that these statistics do not have to be smuggled or able to hold one hundred percent of the countries participating in this operation, that is impossible. So I owe you the exact answer, we can only speculate on numbers here. However, more or less the number of people who have reached the sea over the years is known, although these figures are also highly speculative. This year, we are certainly talking about more than 100,000 people who have come across the Mediterranean. So the problem continues to be very acute, even though during the winter period this tendency generally falls quite sharply, i.e. fewer people will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U443	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. The rapporteur for the National Defence Committee is Johannes Kert. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U444	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! This year, the European Union has responded with a fleet operation to the surge of refugees from Africa to Europe and across the Mediterranean and to the deaths of many refugees in the Mediterranean. Mr. Secretary of Defense has stopped at this in more detail. The draft decision 133 was discussed at the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 11 November, where EUNAVFOR Medi presented the EU military mission in the Mediterranean, Mr Hanso, Minister for Defence, and officials of the Ministry of Defence answered the questions. The Estonian Defence Forces will participate in this military mission in 2016 with two staff officers at the operational headquarters in Rome. This year, an officer has been involved. At its meeting on 11 November, the National Defence Committee decided to consensually propose that the Riigikogu include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu sitting by 18 November, i.e. today. I was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. The National Defence Committee also decided to propose that the Riigikogu stop reading the draft under discussion and set the deadline for submitting the draft amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 2 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U445	Questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Johannes Kert! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The first reading of draft decision 133 has been completed and I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 2 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U446	Extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali, first reading of the draft 134. The initiator's waitress is Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U447	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, Estonia's contribution to the European Union Training Mission in Mali is important. One of our priorities as a country is certainly to participate in the implementation of the European Union's common security and defence policy and also to develop cooperation with strategic allies, France, the Nordic and Baltic countries, which are among the leading countries of the European Union. Mali's mission, which we have been talking about here for quite a few years, has become one of the most important military operations in the European Union. Together with Estonia, 25 countries contribute to this, including 23 EU Member States. To do that, we have asked for a mandate for ten active troops. Another operation called MINUSMA under the leadership of the UN in Mali will help strengthen Estonia's contribution to the UN's efforts to ensure peace. We all remember the problems that have arisen very quickly in Mali, where the central government was no longer able to contain the tribes and religious extremists operating in the northern territories, and the impact of these problems on our continent and beyond. They create instability in the wider North African region. To keep the situation under control, this contribution from the UN is also important. In recent years, we have taken a course in Estonia to gradually increase participation in UN missions, taking into account, of course, Estonia's possibilities. This approach is in line with our foreign and security policy decision to increase Estonia's activity within the UN framework. One of our major foreign policy goals is to apply for UN Security Council non-permanent membership for the years 2020 and 2021. We therefore believe that such activities and keeping the Estonian flag high in this format are important. In the case of MINUSMA, we are also talking about ten mandates. In principle, it is an observation and consultation team serving in a multi-country target unit under the Dutch leadership of MINUSMA, which, in plain language, means analysis and intelligence of information. I am now finishing my comments and answering questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U448	Any questions for the Minister? No, it's not. The Commission's rapporteur is Johannes Kert, Member of the National Defence Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U449	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! We are currently discussing the extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali. This is a continuation of activity of the same magnitude. The Minister gave a more detailed overview of the nature of the mission. The National Defence Committee dealt with this draft at the meeting of 11 November, where the draft was presented by the Minister of Defence, Hannes Hanso, and the officials of the Ministry of Defence. Prior to this, the Commission had also presented a presentation at its meeting on 10 November by the Defence Forces' leadership and staff officers, who gave the National Defence Commission a comprehensive overview of the security situation in the Republic of Mali and of the nature and plans of this mission. At its meeting on 11 November, the National Defence Committee decided to consensually propose that the Riigikogu include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu sitting today, 18 November. I was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. The National Defence Committee decided to propose that the Riigikogu stop reading the draft and set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 2 December. I'm ready to answer questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U450	There are no questions. Thank you, Johannes Kert! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. First reading of Bill 134 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 2 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U451	First reading of Bill 135 of the Riigikogu decision "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the implementation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or other international military operation led by the United Nations" initiated by the Government of the Republic. The initiator's waitress is Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U452	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We apply for a mandate, if necessary, to use up to 50 members of the Defence Forces for the first contribution to an international operation during the next year. I think this mandate could be called a 'preparedness mandate'. The possibility to apply for such a mandate is provided by the recently adopted National Defence Act, which will enter into force on 1 January. Given the size and possibilities of our Defence Forces, Estonia does not usually have the ability to contribute to operations with a large number of people, active troops or with serious heavy equipment or air force, for example. We don't have our own tank divisions. So our strength can be speed, flexibility and responsiveness. Over the last few years, rather turbulence in international life, we have been taught that problems can occur in different parts of the world, even in our own region, relatively suddenly and quickly. Therefore, speed and flexibility are key words. When discussing this mandate, we looked at the experiences of our country over the past few years. We have one example when France asked Estonia to help support the operation of the Central African Republic. Although our internal procedures went relatively quickly, their length could still be measured in months. In order to avoid such a situation, should there be a need to react quickly, we would like to be prepared more quickly than through all normal procedures. This contribution of up to 50 active troops has also been thoroughly considered with our Defence Forces, but of course Estonia's exact contribution depends on the need for a specific operation and our possibilities. I will also answer in advance the questions that I believe might arise in the context of this mandate. At present, we do not have any such operations on the horizon; we have not been requested to participate in such an operation. However, times have shown that we must be ready for change and respond to them at the right time. That is why I am before you and I am asking for this ready mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U453	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U454	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! The former US Foreign Minister Colin Powell has apologized for Iraq's war, and the British Prime Minister, Tony Blair, has also apologized. They've claimed they went there with false intelligence. Are there any top politicians in Estonia who should join these statements? That's one side of the question. The other side is that with this bill, we are giving like a bill of lading. Do you consider it theoretically possible that we will also go to Syria within the framework of this bill, and, if so, to which region in particular?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U455	Thank you. Syria cannot be excluded. Is there a plan on the table, or has anyone asked us for help? The answer is very straight and specific: not. From time to time, it has also been asked whether Estonia should contribute in any way to the army. I am saying here that no one has made such a proposal to us, and we have not discussed it ourselves either. Estonia certainly cannot take the lead in such missions, hypothetical missions. We are not just this weight category country. As far as Iraq is concerned, yes, it has become clear over time that what led to it was not right. I took office as Minister of Defence a few days more than two months ago, which is why I am in no position to take responsibility for these activities. However, I am sure that the cornerstone of Estonia's security is above all all allies, we must trust our allies, and on the basis of this information, these decisions were taken in good faith in their time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U456	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U457	Good President! Good minister! In my view, this point, which is mentioned in the National Defence Act, the so-called reduction of civil control in favour of the armed forces, is such a callous provision. Now it's decided to put 50 militias on alert. Where exactly does this number 50 come from, and are up to 50 armed forces being held in some kind of special-arms alert at number one?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U458	Thank you. Politicians, not military, make decisions in Estonia. Therefore, I must say that this concern, as if the military could somehow start to control the country, is certainly not justified. Acting under this mandate will naturally be decided by the Minister of Defence through a normal political discussion, we will also consult the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. So that fear is not justified. Since we're talking about a mission that doesn't exist yet, it's very hard to say anything. We can't get anyone ready for this, we don't know what capabilities are needed, we don't know where it's going, and we don't know what technology it's going to take. Therefore, by definition, these active troops cannot sit in a separate barracks somewhere. We can talk here about Special Forces, we can talk about some staff officer or deminers, and so on, maybe we can talk about naval divers. So there's no way these operatives are gonna sit in isolation somewhere. This figure takes into account that the need for active troops to be present in Estonia and our possible international contribution must be balanced. Fifty is not a known figure, but, as I said, sometimes it is necessary to react quickly, and for that, I believe, that number is sufficient. Surely we will learn from this experience in the future. We don't know if we're gonna need any of those militias right now. And if it does, it is important to stress that this potential mission must be managed either by NATO, a NATO Member State, the European Union or the UN. So this is a rather broad-based mandate that gives us, like, extra flexibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U459	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U460	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I don't have exactly the text of the National Defence Act right in front of me. However, your explanatory statement states that according to § 34 (5) of the Act, the Minister of Defence asks the opinion of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu before deciding to participate in a specific international military operation under this provision. There's a point here. That's not gonna go on. However, I assume that the mechanism is such that the National Defence Commission must also support the mission with its votes. Confirm my understanding or disprove it! But if the Commission were to have a very narrow majority of votes, or if the votes were to be tied, would it still not be more appropriate for this House to come together quickly and make its decision? How do you feel as a Minister of Defence if you remain very close to the national defence committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U461	Thank you. We are asking for the opinion of the National Defence Committee, exactly as the draft states. As far as the Riigikogu is concerned, this is the place that we want to change with this law. We do not think that this is necessary because we want to speed up the process. The experience of participating in the Central African Republic operation has just shown that we are not fast enough. How do I feel? Of course, the responsibility is very high. Such decisions are still made by consensus of the government. The political will must certainly be expressed here and, of course, I am not going to take any such decisions in private.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U462	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U463	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue to develop the pre-questioner's point and ask how fast it is to make such a decision. How much faster is the association with the National Defence Committee compared to the association of the Riigikogu with the large hall? After all, the Riigikogu has been sometimes, if necessary, in a very quick decision-making process, for example, in June. Is that reasonable? It makes my heart hurt a little.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U464	Thank you. I think that discussing matters in the National Defence Committee is much more flexible and faster than dealing with the subject in the Riigikogu Chamber. I don't know exactly how often the National Defence Committee gets together or extraordinaryly can go together, but I think he does it three times a week. I'm sure it's not a question where someone's trying to do something behind someone's back. As I said, the proposal to participate in some of the operations organised at the heart of the crisis must be made whether NATO's response time in NATO is still sufficient to allow matters to be discussed in the Member States, i.e. here in Estonia too, some of the NATO Member States, the UN or the European Union. When it's urgent, it's very difficult to answer. We have to be as fast as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U465	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U466	Good manager! Dear Minister of Defence! As a good knowledge of foreign policy, tell me what the likely region we are going to with this bill of lading is. Is fighting Syria and ISIS a priority, or is there something else we do not know?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U467	Thank you. The international situation, as well as the conflicts, is at times full of surprises and unpredictableness, which is why we need to be ready to react quickly. Now, as I have already said, there is no geographical area to which we could go under this mandate. We must be ready to react with our allies from NATO or the European Union, or to go where we have the capacity to go under the UN and where we are needed. So this is a rather broad-based mandate. We cannot, of course, exclude this region as well. If we look at what missions Estonia has participated in, the geographical range is already relatively wide.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U468	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U469	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! First of all, thank you for being prepared to acknowledge the mistakes made in Iraq. But right now, we are struggling with this Mediterranean crisis, with this migration crisis and with ever-increasing extremism. One reason is that the Syrian state has ceased to function, Libya has ceased to function, Iraq as a country has ceased to function. Has something gone wrong in policy planning? What should our allies do better so that the problems do not get worse, but can still be solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U470	Thank you. The situation is very difficult in many countries, and I agree that interventions and perhaps premature departures from some countries could make the situation worse. It would be pointless to say otherwise. From a philosophical point of view, it may be that if you don't intervene, it's bad if you do, it's bad. However, sometimes situations have arisen where it is impossible not to intervene. There is room for improvement on these issues, and I believe that the lessons learned from missions and operations will also be taken into account. As far as Syria is concerned, Syria is indeed completely divided between organisations that control different parts of the country. The country we see on the map is no longer the country that we once knew. I believe that there might have been stronger intervention in Syria in the past, but, in the light of the examples of Iraq and Afghanistan, this obviously has not been political capital. So there are no light solutions or no working formula or model, unfortunately. Each situation must be addressed according to the best available knowledge. And I also believe that both Estonia and all our allies will always do their best to ensure that the operations are successful.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U471	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U472	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! To support or contradict my claim, I will give an example of the situation that may arise. As we know, yesterday, the French President, Hollande, opened Article 42 (7) of the Lisbon Treaty, which means that a joint military operation may take place in the European Union. If the European Union now decides, for example, to go to Syria with ground forces and do so with Russia, do you not feel that in this case the decision of the Minister of Defence and the association with the National Defence Committee, as you said, is not enough? Shouldn't such complex questions still come before the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U473	Thank you, good questioner! The question is entirely legitimate, but I must say here before you that the European Union is not a military organisation. What France has asked for is assistance based on bilateral agreement from Member States that want to provide it. Therefore, no participation in the activities led by the European Union is possible, even theoretically, on the basis of the article we are talking about today. If we were talking about NATO Article 5 here, then it says that an attack on one means an attack on everyone, and it also means an obligation to help. However, in the context of the decision we are debating today, we cannot put together any Syrian operation under the leadership of the European Union. There is France, which has asked for help, and the countries that have told France that they are willing to help if necessary. Then we have to agree on what kind of aid France needs and what kind of aid countries can provide. This is certainly not an obligation of any kind. As far as Russia's involvement is concerned, it would be extremely difficult for me to imagine a situation in which we, as allies, would go to participate in some kind of operation with Russia as our eastern neighbour.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U474	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U475	Thank you. Good minister! Europe, our nearest neighbour, is in the 'on-call' situation since 2008. NATO has recognised that it is only since the annexation of Crimea that they perceive the real situation. A group of Members took part in a training seminar on security, where it turned out that there was a conflict between the military and politicians. The military say they are ready to form and go into battle in two days, but it will take at least five days for politicians to propose or declare a crisis situation. The draft under discussion indicates that the military are trying to prevent such a situation in good time. Are you saying that politicians are giving in to the military at this point in time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U476	Thank you. No, politicians certainly don't give up. Politicians are the ones who make decisions over the army in the Republic of Estonia. That is how it has always been here, and I hope that it will continue to be so. The military must be ready, it's up to politicians to decide what the military is doing. A simplified example: politicians and the political process are like the head and the army are like hands and feet that do what the head tells them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U477	Thank you, good Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Is it not the case that this draft is a technical issue? The Riigikogu has already expressed its political will in the National Defence Act, which will enter into force on 1 January 2016 and where the Riigikogu has committed itself to setting such a limit for each year, so that the Minister of Defence, in cooperation with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the National Defence Committee, can decide these matters quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U478	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U479	Thank you. You're right. However, I must ask the Riigikogu for a mandate to do so, and that is why I am standing before you right now. I would like to emphasise once again that the strength of the Estonian state must be at our rate of reaction. Since we have limitations on the technical capacity and human resources to respond to situations, we should be as quick as possible. That makes perfect sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U480	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U481	Thank you. A rather similar decision is still valid today, though with minor differences. Hence my question: when we took this decision here in our time, one of the cornerstones was precisely the willingness to contribute more quickly to new operations. This principle has now been extended to all operations in the world where Estonia is not participating. Can you explain in a word the background from which this change is due?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U482	Thank you. The key word here is 'first bet'. We are not talking, in the context of this mandate, about extending some kind of operation or mission that we will be participating in anyway. This is a very important point. And if, for example, we use this mandate in the next year and we want to extend it in the future, in general, we have been on long-term operations, then we should naturally come before the Riigikogu to extend it. I hope you have the answer to your question. The bet is a first, but I would not say that the whole world and the entire world's military operations are involved. However, there is a very clear definition in the draft of those organisations, or also of the countries that can make us such a proposal, such as NATO, some NATO member, the European Union and the United Nations. I think all regions or territories of the world and all possible alliances will not be covered by the Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U483	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U484	Good Secretary of Defense! We are giving here a bill of lading for the use of Estonian Defence Forces is unknown where. And if, at one point, they go to fight, for example, the Islamic State, which therefore recognises the existence of Estonia, and the bomb is planted at the Nordea Concert Hall or somewhere else in the city centre of Tallinn, are we going to become co-responsible next to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U485	Thank you. Our interest is peace and stability; our interest as a country is certainly not only to prevent extremism, extremism and the spread of terrorism, but also to eliminate them. Therefore, to think in such categories, to turn the other cheek forward, certainly should not. I think it is the terrorist organisations who have committed very serious crimes under their name that expect us to be afraid of dealing with them. In this key, I don't think we should be afraid of a possible theoretical contribution. On the contrary, I think that when we talk about the Islamic State, we would like to see that this organisation does not exist, so that it is simply eliminated. And if it is necessary that, within our capabilities, we can contribute to this, then it would only be welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U486	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U487	Mr President! Mr. Minister! First of all, I am worried about the Iraq war apology that has been demanded here. And somehow the minister apologized. As far as I know, Estonia has not taken the view that we should apologise for the war in Iraq. Rather, we should apologise for coming out of Iraq too early, because only then did these big shits start. But I have this inspiring question and then a hypothetical question. The encouraging question is whether 50 men are not too few. Once, when there was an emergency situation in Afghanistan, we were out with two companies, and now we are probably talking here about serious security crises, where Estonia should be involved. Maybe 50 men are really fit for us and no more, but also purely tactically, to operate ourselves, there could be more. The other half of the question is such a bit of a doubt.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U488	... Russia's taking part in the army, it's pretty serious. Are we really going to get into an operation where the Russians, the French and the Estonians are doing something together?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U489	Now maybe the question is, time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U490	We are most likely to be discussing some sort of participation in or in connection with a French-led operation in Syria, and the prospect that...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U491	And now the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U492	Thank you. For the first part of the question, I would answer so that I don't want anyone putting words in my mouth. You didn't hear an apology from me. On the contrary, I said that allies are extremely important to us, we contributed to our best knowledge, and I have not apologized here for that. That mistakes were made, I believe, no one doubts. Is 50 men too few or too many? This is the first time we have asked for this mandate. I think 50 is optimal now, considering the number of active troops. If it is necessary to come before the Riigikogu to extend the scope of any mandate, we will certainly do so. But I think that, in view of the operational nature of this mandate, which is the key word, the current need is certainly satisfied. Once again, in the framework of the NATO Action Force, the NRF, which was first discussed today, we have actually reserved a very significant number of Estonian professional Defence Forces, ready to respond to situations in the short term under NATO leadership. We must not allow a situation where too many of our defence forces are allowed to go to different places. Everything is ultimately based on mathematics. We want to increase the number of active troops in the defence field and we are moving quite strongly in this direction. This year's figures are pretty good. By 2022, we'd like to reach 3,600 active troops. As of this year, there are about 3320 of them, and I may be wrong by a few numbers. So in the future, these figures may also vary to a certain extent, but towards an increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U493	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U494	Thank you. I'm asking about the operation of the will coalition. Operations led by international organisations are clear and very well described. One simple question occurred to me: Can a coalition of will be run by several countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U495	When we talk about NATO or NATO allies, NATO is a multi-state organisation. But when an ally is asking for help, such as the United States or another country, it is natural that someone, as a country, has to lead a coalition of will. Is it possible that there are several drivers? I think it would make sense that whoever calls together will lead.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U496	Eerik-Niles Kross! Intrusive request, ask me in one minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U497	Mr President! Mr. Minister! I'll ask you a question I'm waiting for a "no" or a "yes" answer. Does the mandate currently applied for prevent the Estonian Defence Forces from entering into a joint operation with the forces of the Russian Federation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U498	As I have already said, I do not see the possibility of Estonia going along with some kind of operation in which Russia participates. We are talking about a completely hypothetical situation. At this point, my answer to that question is no. However, we must bear in mind that the world is very complicated, which is why we are discussing each situation separately and then making the right decisions for ourselves. But once again, I do not see this situation coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U499	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U500	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Lifelong learning must also take place in this Chamber. I'm sorry about the lack of education, but what's a coalition of will?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U501	Thank you. In English coalition of the willing. For example, when going to Iraq, the organisational roof was not used, but the mission was convened by the United States, and others, according to their own will, participated in it. Several NATO members, I dare mention at least Germany and France here, for example, did not participate because they did not want to.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U502	Lifelong learning is now also a part of it. Thank you, Minister. The Commission's rapporteur is Ants Laaneots, Member of the National Defence Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U503	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Conflicts and crises in different regions of the world have escalated unexpectedly and quickly in recent years. Europe is currently facing two new major security challenges in Ukraine after a lasting war. These are first the illegal and uncontrolled immigration of war and economic refugees from Asia and Africa and, secondly, the terrorism exported by the Islamic State to Europe. Therefore, the international community, including Estonia, must act as quickly and flexibly as possible to restore peace and stability on the continent and thus protect Estonia's security interests. France has addressed the allies in the framework of the Lisbon Treaty with a request for military assistance. I want to reassure you immediately that the French have also come up with such a proposal that they want to replace their units, located in secondary locations, I mean, on the sidelines of military action to concentrate their efforts on the ISIS in particular, and ask the allies, if possible, to replace these units. Of course, this is primarily about Africa. The EU and the US are currently looking for ways and means to better deal with these crises, and these instruments probably also include military measures. As Estonia is a partner, it also participates in decisions to start new operations led by NATO and the European Union. The National Defence Committee considers that contributing to the possible new military operations of NATO, the European Union and the UN remains a priority for Estonia, as we depend very much on them in security matters. This is directly due to Estonia's membership in these international organisations. So, if necessary, Estonia must be ready to rapidly support their efforts to restore peace and security to the important international organisations as ours, once again, and, if necessary, to deploy subordinate units of the Defence Forces, as well as individual members of the Defence Forces, in the desired crisis or conflict area. On the basis of § 34 (4) of the National Defence Act, the Riigikogu, by decision, sets the limit for the number of active troops who may participate in any other international military operation under the direction of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or the United Nations, for the first time, I stress. And, as the Minister has already said, this draft decision provides for a limit of up to 50 active troops. I would also like to say that keeping the Defence Forces on a mission is an extremely expensive pleasure for the state and for the state budget, if you could call it fun. We do not yet know the possible place of secondment and the necessary number, but we had a meeting today on this issue, with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of the Interior and other members of the Government. The questions will probably be addressed to France to find out what they need specifically. Once again, we are not interested in participating directly in the war against ISIS. Maybe with this, I'll sort of ground your concern. Pursuant to § 34 (5) of the National Defence Act, before deciding to participate in a particular international military operation, the Minister of Defence hears the opinion of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu, which was taken. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading at its meeting on 11 November. As has already been said here, this session was attended by Mr Hanso, Minister of Defence, and officials of the Ministry of Defence, as representatives of the draft. We were talking about budgeting. The Minister of Defence replied to the question of the members of the Commission as to how the costs of participating in a possible new operation would be covered by the budget of the Ministry of Defence for the following year. The draft also involved the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 10 November, where the Commission received an overview from Brigadier General Artur Tiganik, Deputy Commander of the Defence Forces, and other representatives of the Defence Forces of the possibilities of increasing this participation in the international missions of the Estonian Defence Forces. We were talking about the same 50 actives. At its meeting on 11 November, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to appoint a speaker to act as rapporteur for the Commission. At the same time, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft under discussion be included on the agenda for the first reading of today's sitting. The National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu stop reading the draft under discussion and set the deadline for submitting amendments. a 2 December at 5.15 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U504	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U505	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You noted that there was an interesting meeting today, attended by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister, and decided to turn to France. Was it with the National Defence Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U506	This took place today in a narrower circle, in the group where we discussed what to do next. We asked each other for advice. I said the basics here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U507	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U508	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! You mentioned that the Ministry of Defence has a reserve fund or a fund to cover the costs of a possible operation. How big is this fund? Is it really there, or is there a risk that officials will be laid off to set up this fund? Do you know if this fund exists and how big it is?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U509	I'm gonna cry. Thank you for your question. I would like to stress once again that we asked a question and the Secretary of Defense answered us. In any case, the Ministry of Defence will try to find the money from its budget for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U510	Mr. General, it's late, but keep your optimism, don't cry! Let's move on to the agenda. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U511	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Laaneots! I have no doubt that, in the current security situation, we need to react very quickly if necessary. Does the Commission have such information, or has it in any way been touched in the Commission, on how the question of Parliament's role has been resolved in other allied countries on analogous occasions? What are the analogues of § 34 of our National Defence Act? Will the role of parliaments be limited to setting the limit, or what practice is there in other allied countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U512	Thank you very much. I would like to stress that today's review is an exceptional case. We haven't practiced before. The only exception was, if I remember correctly, 2010 when we sent another company to Afghanistan during the elections. As far as the practice of other countries is concerned, as far as I know, it is completely different from country to country, but Parliament will certainly say its decisive word in this. It must also be acknowledged that our decision today is based on the Riigikogu, because the Riigikogu itself decided that such a mandate was necessary by the adoption of the National Defence Act. It's written on white in black.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U513	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 135. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 135 amendments. a 2 December at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U514	We will proceed to the 14th item: The extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Government of the Republic in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the training and counselling mission in Afghanistan, the first reading of Bill 136. Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U515	Thank you. This draft decision allows us to continue with up to six active troops from 1 January of next year until the end of the year what we are already doing in Afghanistan on the NATO Training and Advice Mission Resolute Support Mission, or RSM. The situation in Afghanistan remains where the state and national institutions are not fully operational, the security challenges remain high and the security situation in the operational area remains unstable. So continuing to contribute to Afghanistan is self-evident. As has already been said in previous answers and in questions, countries cannot be left alone in these difficult times. Our own contribution is far from as extensive today as it was in the ISAF when we were in Afghanistan from 2003 to 2014. Today, we are asking you for a mandate to participate in up to six deminers. At present, we have four deminers on the ground in Afghanistan, and we would like to continue to do the same in the composition of the German contingent in northern Afghanistan. The reason why we are asking for a mandate for six active troops is that we want to maintain flexibility in rotation of the active troops in the mission area. Speaking more broadly of Afghanistan, the current government and President Ghani are significantly more cooperative than his predecessor, Karzay. So the United States, which is still the most widely represented in Afghanistan, will continue to be present in Afghanistan after the end of 2016. As has been said, the country is still in a very difficult situation, and I believe that if I ask you here today for a mandate to extend this mission, it is unlikely that we will not want to extend our mission in the coming years. There are no quick solutions there, and we must all contribute equally so that the situation in the country does not get worse than it is today, but, on the contrary, improves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U516	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. To waitress for the National Defence Committee, please speak at Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U517	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft decision of the Riigikogu under discussion allows, as the Minister of Defence has already said, up to six of the active troops of the Estonian Defence Forces to continue to contribute to the NATO Training and Counselling Mission RSM or Resolute Support Mission in 2016. It should be stressed once again that this is a training and counselling mission. The Deminator's task is to train Afghan national security forces in Afghan National Security Forces. Estonia is now contributing, as we have heard, to a four-member demining unit in the North Afghanistan region led by the German framework state. The draft also involves the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 10 November, where the Deputy Commander of the Defence Forces, Brigadier General Artur Tiganik, and other representatives of the Defence Forces appeared before us. They gave an overview of what is happening there, in particular, both in Afghanistan and in other missions that are under way. The following day, on 11 November, Hannes Hanso and the accompanying officials were present at the National Defence Commission meeting. They talked about the draft mission to Afghanistan and also presented other draft decisions that will give a mandate next year for the participation of the Defence Forces in international missions. The continuation of the Resolute Support mission and the need to support Afghanistan are obvious in order to maintain the progress achieved since 2001. As the Minister of Defence said, we must keep to these advances so that there is no going backwards. At its meeting on 11 November, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to invite the Board of the Riigikogu to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu on 18 November, or today's session. The rapporteur for the Commission was appointed here. By consensus, the National Defence Committee also decided to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. The deadline for submitting amendments is 10 working days according to Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, which means that it will be at 5.15 p.m. on 2 December. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U518	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 136. Reading complete. I will set the deadline for tabling 136 amendments. a 2 December at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U519	We go to agenda item 15: Extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria, first reading of Bill 138. Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U520	Good members of the Riigikogu who have been able to survive in this hall! The topics are extremely important. The draft, which I will now present to you, will allow Estonia to continue to contribute next year to the United Nations Peace Mission UNTSO, which is a post-conflict peace-building mission. We're asking for a mandate to use up to six active troops. As a member of the UN, Estonia, of course, contributes to peace in crisis regions. We have been fairly modestly represented on this mission for many years. As has already been said in the presentation of the Mali mission, in recent years the UN has become our priority. The reason is very simple: since we want to become a rotating member of the UN Security Council in 2020-2021, we must not only be visible but also increase this visible status. We have carried out the duties of both the Staff Officer and the Senior Staff Officer on this mission and, on the basis of the mandate currently requested, we want to continue in the same way. The greater objective is, of course, to avoid the escalation of conflicts in the region. Even though we're asking for a mandate for six people, we're taking part in it with three active troops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U521	Thank you, dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U522	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. My question, of course, is incompetent, but I am still asking. The draft refers to the implementation of commitments in the post-conflict peace-building mission, and Syria has also been mentioned among the countries. It's not like there's a post-conflict situation there right now, is there?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U523	Thank you. Indeed, there is no post-conflict situation in Syria, and neither are our defence forces in Syria's territory. In general, their activities take place on the Lebanese-Israel border at the Golan Highlands and in the area where there is a 'patrol control area'. The United Nations mandate has been given to operate in a wider area than that area and, accordingly, our people can, of course, be used in other of these countries during their presence there. But there really is no way to go to Syria now, even though a few years ago, Syria was part of this process.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U524	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no more questions for you. Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, will act as co-rapporteur at the decision of the National Defence Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U525	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 11 November the National Defence Committee discussed the preparation of the draft for the first reading. We were briefed by Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso and the DOD officials. I have to say that the National Defence Committee has regularly received reviews of both this mission and other international missions over the years, which is why the members of the Commission did not have any questions regarding the continuation of the mission in the context of this draft. At the meeting of 11 November, the National Defence Committee decided to propose that the Bureau include the draft on the agenda of this working week in the Riigikogu for the first reading. The Commission also decided to propose the completion of the first reading of the draft and to set a deadline of 10 working days for the submission of amendments. The rapporteur was appointed here. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U526	Good waitress, no questions for you. Thank you very much. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 138. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 138 amendments. a 2 December at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U527	We now go to today's last item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft 137 of the Riigikogu's decision to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the UN peacekeeping mission in Lebanon. Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U528	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We are talking about the same region as the previous mandate. The draft decision of the Riigikogu before you allows the Defence Forces to continue to contribute to the UN peacekeeping mission UNIFIL with up to 50 active troops. Today, we have 37 or 38 participants in this mission, and we are taking part in it with Finland and Ireland. As the rotation of the Estonian Defence Forces participating in the operation takes place twice a year, it may happen that in one month, as stated in the draft, we have more than 50 Defence Forces in Lebanon at once, or up to 100 Defence Forces. This situation may not last for more than one month. We all know how tense the situation in Lebanon is at this point in time. The peace that is there must in any case be preserved. Our current task force is mainly patrolling and camp surveillance. The majority of Estonia's contingent is made up of a mechanised infantry group with a support element and staff officers. Patroling and camp surveillance will be accompanied by the manning of control stations. Among other things, cooperation with the Lebanese armed forces is also taking place. This mission is also very important for us to show our active commitment to the UN. This is actually the biggest mission that we are currently out with the Defence Forces in Estonia. I think that the service experience in this area is extremely important and necessary for our defence forces, and I have realised that participation in this mission has been required and quite popular. So we would like to continue with what we have already done, and obviously we want to participate in this mission in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U529	Thank you. Dear waitress, There are no questions for you. I would like to ask Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, to act as rapporteur for the National Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U530	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed this draft at its meeting on 11 November, where our Defence Minister Hannes Hanso and other representatives of the Ministry of Defence gave an overview of the mission and the draft. Here, too, I have to say that the debate was rather short, because the National Defence Committee is quite well informed of what is happening on the UNIFIL mission through regular briefings. At its meeting on 11 November, the National Defence Committee decided to invite the Riigikogu to conclude the first reading of the draft and to set a deadline of 10 working days for the submission of amendments. Of course, it was also decided unanimously to place the draft on the agenda for this working week and to appoint a rapporteur here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-18_U531	Thank you. There are no questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? No call request. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 137. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 137 amendments in s. a 2 December at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting with a military end is closed. Good night. I'll see you tomorrow morning. Closure of the sitting at 21.26 p.m.
