ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. Let's start Tuesday's trial. Who has to hand over drafts or inquiries? Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U2	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of 38 initiators, I am pleased to pass on the draft law implementing the Cohabitation Act. The Cohabitation Act was adopted by the previous Riigikogu, but before it enters into force at the beginning of the year, the Riigikogu will also have to adopt implementing acts, i.e. provisions to implement the Cohabitation Act in everyday practical situations. It is a draft implementing law which, according to the regulation under the Cohabitation Act, specifies the procedure for the exercise of rights. As we recall, disputes about the content of the Cohabitation Act were held in the previous Riigikogu. The conclusion of a partnership agreement, the resulting rights and obligations are provided by the Cohabitation Act. The implementing law is largely a technical text that regulates property relations, succession, matters relating to registers, etc. Honourable fellows! Initiators support compliance with the rule of law and therefore the adoption of implementing acts in a timely manner. That is also the position of the Chancellor of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U3	No more wishes. I've adopted a bill. The Bureau shall decide on this procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. Let's do a presence check, please! 83 members of the Riigikogu are present, 18 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U4	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. First of all, the Government of the Republic has initiated the first reading of the 2016 draft State Budget Act 103. The rapporteur is Minister of Finance Sven Sester. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! You will have the 2016 state budget before you. This budget supports the growth of the Estonian economy. This budget increases the economic security of families with children, pensioners and people receiving lower wages and increases Estonia's defence capacity. With this budget, the government wants to implement the coalition agreement. As a preliminary point, I would like to highlight the observations that lay down the framework and principles for the budget for next year. Firstly, Estonia's security is a government priority. The increase in defence costs is linked to the growth of the Estonian economy. After all, it has been agreed that defence costs will be at least 2% of GDP, but we will allocate more to this area. It is not possible to support a country that has not collected taxes, nor can it be possible to reduce all taxes at all times. Estonia's tax burden is among the smallest in Europe. Next year we will reduce taxes on labour and receive additional income from taxation on consumption, pollution and unhealthy lifestyles. Let us do this in such a way that the tax burden as a whole does not change much. Our tax system will continue to be simple and uniform in the future. We are making an effort to make it easy to pay taxes, but not paying them difficult and deplorable. Our tax administration is one of the most effective in Europe, so we can keep the tax rates lower. However, the tax burden on people on lower wages is still higher than in other countries. With next year's budget, we will increase tax-free income for all and apply an additional tax refund to those who receive lower wages. This tax policy supports economic growth. It is supported by both right-wing and left-wing parties, as it facilitates working and coping. The maximum win per year is nearly 700 euros per person employed. Thanks to a reduction in the tax burden on labour, people's income will grow faster in the coming years. Tax-free income will increase to EUR 2040 per year as early as next year, and as a result, two working parents will win up to EUR 77 a year. We do not make any new major commitments to the country; we do new spending mainly to increase the economic security of families with children and those with lower incomes. In the social sector, in addition to pensions and medical costs, children's benefits and livelihoods are increasing for the weaker. This budget has been drawn up as a result of long negotiations, based on the possibilities of our country. The draft state budget has been drawn up in such a way that the state's fiscal position for 2016 is in structural surplus, as required by § 6 of the basic state budget law. This is also in line with our country's monetary and economic policy objectives. The planned costs are affordable for our country and will also be covered by revenue in the future. Dear Riigikogu! I will now give you more details on the substance of the budget. The revenue from the state budget comes mainly from business and taxes. In the latest ranking of the World Bank 'Doing Business 2015', which compares business environments, Estonia ranks 17th among 189 countries in the world. The Nordic countries are ahead of us, Latvia and Lithuania are behind us. This ranking compares things that are important for the development of entrepreneurship, such as how low the level of corruption is. If you do not have to bribe to obtain a building permit or to win a procurement, this is a big step towards the top of the ranking. These steps have recently been taken by Estonia and the new state budget will ensure that the fight against corruption will continue next year. Reducing tax fraud ensures fair competition. The IRS will also receive additional resources for this. With euro money, we support the development of the business environment. We build better roads and connections, support exporting companies and research institutions and make the country more effective. Our e-governance and ease of administration are one of the advantages of the Estonian business environment. The purpose of the new e-residents project is to link people who wish to use our e-state without living in Estonia. We hope that this will give our entrepreneurs the opportunity to offer new services to those who come, and that some of them will actually bring their companies and investments to the surface of Estonia. We have planned the money to build, market and manage these IT systems in the budget. This is the right way to go to the economic forecast. According to the summer forecast by the Ministry of Finance, the real growth of the Estonian economy, or GDP, will accelerate to 2.6% next year (this year it will be 1.7%). The most important indicator for tax revenue is GDP growth in current prices, which also takes into account inflation. Thus, together with price increases, GDP growth will reach 3.1% in 2015 and increase to 5.5% in 2016. The acceleration of economic growth in Estonia is a prerequisite for the return to growth in foreign demand for our export goods. The weighted average economic growth of Estonia's main trading partners is expected to increase from 0.8% this year to 1.6% in 2016. The basis for this is a halt to the 4.5% economic downturn in Russia this year, a gradual recovery of economic growth in Finland and an acceleration of economic growth in Germany and Latvia and Lithuania. This means that the products and services of Estonian companies will be sold abroad more and the current consumption-based economic growth will increasingly be supported by growth in exports. The macroeconomic projections of the Ministry of Finance are conservative and balanced. Estonia has not had to make a negative supplementary budget since 2009. Larger international institutions and analysts from our commercial banks predict that the Estonian economy will grow by around 2.9% next year. The government has based the preparation of the state budget on the latest forecast by independent analysts of the Ministry of Finance that real GDP growth will reach 2.6% in 2016. Conservativeity is particularly evident in the increase in wage income and private consumption linked to the greatest sources of budgetary revenue, i.e. social tax and VAT receipts, where the expectations of the Ministry of Finance for 2016 are lower than those of the IMF, the OECD or the European Commission, for example. As an independent supervisory body, according to the Board of Budgets at Eesti Pank, the summer economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance adequately describes the prospects of the Estonian economy and the possibilities for preparing the state budget for next year. The Board has considered that, taking into account the different risks, budgets for the coming years should be drawn up in such a way that the government budget is in a small surplus. In view of the risks, this time the government has prepared a budget with the aim of keeping the general government budget in structural surplus, which amounts to 0.6% of GDP. This is what we set ourselves in the spring, and we will stick to it. The basic law on the state budget requires at least budgetary balance and the 2016 objective is therefore significantly more ambitious than the law requirement. The planned nominal government deficit is very small in 2016, reaching only 0.1% of GDP. In addition, temporary factors, such as additional contributions to compulsory funded pensions, have an impact on the budget, without which the budget would remain in nominal surplus in 2016. In 2016, fiscal revenue is forecast to be 5.3% more than a year earlier. The basis for forecasting social tax is primarily an increase in wage costs, which depends on both employment and average wages. The VAT forecast is largely based on developments in private consumption, government investment, government intermediate consumption and household investment. The country receives more VAT as the number of tax frauds has decreased. The declaration of invoices of at least EUR 1000 has been a great help in this regard. The increase in tax receipts is also affected by increases in excise duties. The revenue of the state budget amounts to EUR 8.9 billion, of which EUR 6.3 billion, or approximately 71%, is tax revenue, 15% is so-called non-tax revenue and 14% is transferable revenue. The biggest revenue of the budget is social tax, which is €2.5 billion, followed by value added tax (in the order of 2 billion), excise duties (0.98 billion), income tax on legal persons (0.39 billion) and income tax on natural persons (0.33 billion). Of the non-tax revenues of EUR 1.34 billion, EU subsidies (about 0.8 billion) are the largest, but state fees, CO2 quota sales revenues, dividends, environmental charges and fines are also going down here. Among the revenue to be transferred, the total amount of which is EUR 1.24 billion is the income tax of a natural person (in the order of 0.88 billion) to be passed on to municipalities, as well as land tax to be passed on to municipalities, funded pension payments and unemployment insurance contributions to be transferred to the unemployment fund. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! So where does the state budget money go? The Ministry of Social Affairs is responsible for pensions and health insurance. The total amount of social security benefits is nearly EUR 2 billion, of which public pensions amount to EUR 1.66 billion. Growth is EUR 89 million. The state's contribution to compulsory funded pension funds is EUR 304 million, with an increase of EUR 34 million next year compared to this year. This ensures an increase of 5.7% from 1 April, with an average pension of EUR 395 in the following year. The average pension is still exempt. EUR 304 million in compulsory funded pension funds is a long-term decision that helps people to raise and increase pension money for the future and prepare the state for times when the number of pension beneficiaries is growing faster than the number of taxpayers. In the coming year, there will be 124 million additional euros in pension lines, i.e. in the first and second pillars, compared to this year. The state budget transfers EUR 997 million from social tax to health insurance, an increase of 51.8 million, or 5.5%. The increase in medical personnel's wages, which had previously been agreed, has also been ensured. Education is a key issue for Estonia's future. Cheap hands are enough in the world, but smart investments go where smart and entrepreneurial people are. We'll be wealthier only by learning and developing ourselves. In the coming years, the state of Estonia will work more and more to ensure that everyone who studies in our vocational schools and higher education gets the knowledge and skills needed to compete on the world market. One example is expanding apprenticeship training, where theory is studied at school and practical skills are acquired in the workplace. Thousands of young people will undergo such modern learning in the coming years. In the same direction, more internships are also being moved by our universities. The money is planned for this in the state budget, but a change of thinking is equally important. In 2016, we will contribute EUR 779 million to better education. This money will grow significantly in the coming years when new euro projects start to work. Similarly, as I said, we will see that labour taxes decrease. In family policy, it is important that child benefits rise to EUR 50 per month next year. To remind you that a few years ago, child allowances were EUR 19 and 80 cents, it is clear that a long step forward has been taken. In the context of the budget, this means that while in 2014 there was EUR 101 million in child benefits, in 2016 there has been a total increase of EUR 195 million in two years. The home support programme for children's rich families will increase by 3.2 million euros. In addition, we support the creation of new kindergartens and childcare facilities so that parents can better reconcile work and family life. Traditional support for rural and fisheries will amount to a total of EUR 310 million next year. In order to alleviate the crisis situation of our farmers, we receive EUR 7.6 million from the European Union, the exact same amount of EUR 7.6 million decided to add the Estonian Government. Thus, a total of EUR 15,2 million of emergency aid is granted to milk producers and pig farmers. In the 2016 budget, the contribution of the Estonian Government is 4.6 million euros, 3 million euros we have planned to allocate from the 2015 budget to act faster, but most of the money will still reach farmers in 2016. In addition, the government has already decided to pay exceptional EUR 8.2 million from the 2015 budget to alleviate the swine plague crisis. Some of this money will also reach farmers in 2016. Together, we have also decided to help those who have lost their jobs or are in need for other reasons. By raising the income limit to 130 euros, we will ensure that every family will have up to 130 euros per family member per month to live after the cost of living. The daily unemployment allowance increases by 10%, with a new daily rate of EUR 4 and 41 cents. This amount is not large, but over the years there has been a principle in Estonia that a healthy and able-to-work person's better livelihood is based on work, not subsidies. As I said above, more than 2% of GDP has been allocated to defence expenditure, namely 2.07%. We contribute 2% of GDP to the development of the Defence Forces, and then we allocate money to the allies' presence. In 2016, we will spend nearly EUR 14.5 million, of which 10.1 million for investments, mainly to develop Tapa campus and improve training opportunities on the Central Polygon of the Defence Forces. We also invest in internal security. In order to ensure internal security and improve border security, the work to build the Eastern border will continue in 2016 for EUR 20 million. In addition, rapid response capacity will be strengthened and police and rescue equipment will continue to be upgraded. Finally, I will talk about reforms. In addition to administrative reform, the government plans reforms at national level next year. You can't resist the demography. If the number of people of working age decreases across the country, then the number of people paid by the state must also decrease, otherwise all state officials will end up. A smart country hires good specialists, and good professionals aren't cheap. Reforms give us the opportunity to better keep up with the raise. We give more pay to teachers, social workers, cultural workers and the police and other workers in the field of internal security, and we have accounted for an increase of 4% in the salary fund in the order of magnitude. Dear Riigikogu! This budget supports the growth of Estonia's economy and prosperity. This budget will improve the economic security of families with children, pensioners and people receiving lower wages and increase Estonia's defence capacity. We are doing all of this in a fiscally responsible manner. The state budget is also in structural surplus in 2016. Public debt will not increase due to current expenditure and public finances will also be in good order at the end of 2016. Conservative fiscal policy is Estonia's strength, not its weakness. I would like to thank all those who have worked hard to put together this budget, and I would like you to have meaningful discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U6	Nevertheless, members of the Riigikogu have questions. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Looking at the table on page 9 of the explanatory memorandum, we can see that not only is the forecast for the coming year optimistic, but also from there the growth will be very optimistic. This is about GDP and the growth of exports of goods and services from the current minus level. The increase in tax revenues in the coming year has, in our opinion, been very optimistic. However, you admit that employment will decrease by 3,700 people according to the bill. Ardo Hansson has stated that the reduction is 30,000 people in five years, or 6,000 people a year, and this is a long-term trend. My question is on what basis your optimism is. In our view, this budget is not conservative enough. Is Hansson wrong in his prognosis? That's one. Secondly, do you also predict the growth of the Finnish economy? Finland is our outstanding export partner, but no optimism notes can be seen from this side. Does the government also expect Russian sanctions to be abolished because it is an important neighbouring country that affects our economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U8	Thank you. That is a good question, since the different analytical results that macroanalysts provide must be the basis for us to make a forecast for the future. A good member of the Riigikogu, on your question, there were false claims. What do I mean? If you look at today's forecasts of the Ministry of Finance's macro-analysts for the near future, mainly by 2016, as we are talking about the state budget for next year, and compare them with the forecasts of independent analysts (IMF, commercial banks, OECD), you will note that the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance are the most conservative. As I said in the introductory speech, the IMF worked hard in Estonia for a week and a half and came to the conclusion that next year's economic growth will be 2.9%. The Ministry of Finance has rather conservatively foreseen that this would be 2.6%. The Board has also made its assessment (he is clearly an independent organisation) and has said that the summer economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance adequately reflects the prospects and opportunities of the Estonian economy in the preparation of the next state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U9	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U10	Thank you. Dear waitress, I do not believe your words that the confidence of ordinary people with this budget is growing. I'm not counting it out of here. It is precisely because this budget is growing mainly because of new tax revenues. Here's my question. You praised Estonian entrepreneurship. This same IMF, however, has said that the efficiency of Estonian entrepreneurship, especially the industry, is low. Give some examples of the fact that the budget has grown as a result of the increase in the efficiency of our industry and business at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U11	Thank you. I will start with the question of the first phase of faith. You know, in the case of the state budget, there is no point in talking about faith; in the case of the state budget, it makes sense to talk about facts and look at analyses. Faith is secondary here. If you look at the changes that have been made to the law, you will see that in the near future, this government will aim at a clear reduction in labour taxes and, as early as next year, we will see an increase in the tax-free minimum; in the coming years, the reduction of social tax will also be legalised. We see that the Estonian state contributes to the development of entrepreneurship and stimulates it. So faith has nothing to do with it, it's purely facts. As regards the IMF's observations, I agree with you in this context that there is a problem in Estonia that wages have increased too quickly compared to potential productivity. This means that wage growth has come at the expense of productivity. This is certainly an issue that needs to be addressed both by the legislator and by the private sector. Increasing productivity and increasing investment as a basis must certainly be a priority for the coming years. Businesses want to make additional investments when they have confidence that the market for goods they sell will be larger. According to analysts, export capacity will increase in the coming years. At present, domestic consumption has been the main driver of economic growth. It can be seen that in the near future, the ability of neighbouring markets and our export partners to buy Estonian goods will certainly increase. It is clear that when looking at wages, we always have to look at the opportunities. It has to be said that over the years the Estonian state has been, to some extent, the leader of the pay race. This is not likely to be the case next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U12	Whatever the effort, Siret Eagle can't have the floor. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, In the area of the Ministry of Culture, investment grants include EUR 5 million for the expansion of the Lilleküla football stadium. Until 2006, the state had a participation in Lilleküla Stadium. I remember this because I myself, as minister, was the manager of this participation. At the time, the State transferred the share of EEK 70 million, i.e. in today's currency EUR 4.5 million. Does the allocation of the investment aid result in the State receiving a participation in the football stadium and, if so, in what amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U14	Thank you. I think that all investments in sport, which are made through various measures, are then direct investment or various subsidies, are welcome, as are better televised opportunities. I think that if there is money, all investments related to sport are very welcome. With regard specifically to support for the Lilleküla stadium with EUR 5 million, the conditions specific to the authorisation of State aid are very clear. I'm going to list them here. If this money comes, this sport infrastructure must not be used by professionals in just one field of professional sport. Those involved in other professional and recreational activities must be able to use the infrastructure at least 20% of the annual time. It is certainly important that access to sport and various leisure facilities on this particular infrastructure should be open to several users, transparent and non-discriminatory. Those conditions must be accepted in the future by whoever receives the money. So access must certainly be open to many users, not just to those who specifically receive this money.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U15	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U16	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. I would argue that this sizable material of the draft state budget and the explanatory memorandum were much clearer and clearer at the turn of the century, not to mention the 1990s, both for members of the Riigikogu and for every Estonian citizen, than it is now. As a result of the efforts of very many of the last governments, it is now quite ill-read and even more confusing by contradictory statements. In the Committee on Finance, one of the slides read that revenue growth in the state budget was 3%. It was a slide of "Serious Macronumbers." If I now compare the 2015 state budget and the 2016 draft, I can see that revenue will rise by 4.62%. Which number is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U17	Thank you. You've confused two things during this question or, let's say, the draft analysis. Both percentages are correct. Revenues increase by 3%, costs increase by 4.2%. Both percentages are correct: revenue of 3% or EUR 260 million and costs of 4.2%, totalling EUR 8.98 billion.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U18	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Estonian agriculture is in a very big and serious crisis. The dairy economy and the pig sector are in a very difficult situation. For them, the government has foreseen 4.6 million euros in the next year's state budget as emergency aid, which is very good. But why does the state budget not provide farmers with a right under their law to receive a transitional payment of EUR 21.5 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U20	Thank you. That's a very good question. Good questioner, I want to make a longer introduction to the topics of this sector. The true story, as you said on your question, is that today, especially in Estonia, matters relating to agriculture are very topical. Various issues related to pig farming and dairying have created a situation where people in this sector find it very difficult to market their products or are forced to shut down their businesses for certain reasons. It is very important to monitor the contribution to a specific sector. It doesn't matter what's next, but what's after the equal sign. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to you that, between 2007 and 2013, in the previous period, direct payments were granted for a total of EUR 741 million. From 2014 to 2020 direct payments will be granted, i am referring to payments ranging from the area payment to the transitional payments, to a total of EUR 909 million. If we add additional support mechanisms related to the rural development plan, we can say that between 2007 and 2013, EUR 1.67 billion was granted to the sector, and EUR 1.9 billion will be granted in 2014 to 2020 - the difference is EUR 226 million. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be more money in this sector! But more than that, since you started your question by praising the government for an additional 4.6 million allocations, I would like to say that this is not just about this 4.6 million euros. Today, the government has taken a decision not only to allocate EUR 4.6 million but also to allocate EUR 3 million this year, although most disbursements are most likely to remain in 2016. Moreover, the State has taken the view that additional investments need to be made in order to acquire the state's food supply. At a size of EUR 1.7 million, this will go to pig farmers in order to eliminate tensions in this sector. A total of 6.3 million euros of Estonian taxpayers' money has already been allocated to cover the costs of classical swine fever. Yes, part of it will come back from the European Union next year, but part of it will definitely remain on the Estonian taxpayer's shoulders. Not to mention that the co-financing will be just under 30 million euros next year. This is the largest co-financing project on all budget lines.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U21	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You said very nicely that the state budget has nothing to do with religion; only facts and specific basic data are important here. My question is based on the question put by Ambassador Herkel. I am asking you specifically for facts. What, however, is the government's very optimistic belief that exports of goods and services will increase by 3.5% in 2016? We all know very well what is happening in the domestic markets of our main export partners. None of them have been able to be so optimistic. Is there, for example, a plan with Russia that sanctions will be lifted? What's going on?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U23	Thank you. Look, I like a good discussion. I think you're enjoying it, and I'm enjoying it. The prerequisite for discussion is always that the underlying arguments are already correct. You started by asking your question, which is the basis of our extremely optimistic conviction. I told Andres Herkel in response, and I will answer you in the same way - I will then reach the content - that it is not optimistic, quite the opposite! The forecast of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Estonia is the most conservative; it is much more optimistic for everyone else. If you ask who all these others are, several independent experts have said that next year's economic growth will be considerably higher than forecast by the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Estonia, who has taken the budget on their shoulders on the basis of this forecast. If you ask what was the basis of the Estonian Ministry of Finance for its forecast, I say that it was based on the basis of the forecast. True, the prerequisite for accelerating economic growth is mainly that foreign demand is beginning to recover. Again, different forecasting devices and analysts base their own analysis on individual export partners. Their competence, especially that of Finnish analysts, is much better than that of Estonian macro-analysts. Consequently, we can build on the analytical experience of several countries. As I said, the forecast of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Estonia is not optimistic for next year, but rather conservative.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U24	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We know that the state will allocate nearly EUR 4 million from the state budget to refugees next year and more than EUR 370000 to asylum seekers' accommodation services. I'm sure there's more of that. I have a simple question: if you put all these budget lines together, with several million, the country will support refugees next year and how much will it go to local authorities to deal with the refugee issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U26	Thank you. I will open this issue further, and then I will get to the specific figures. The issue of refugees has now become more topical as time goes on. If this topic was not so topical in Europe and Estonia a year ago, its topicality is now increasing across Europe and, of course, also in Estonia. This automatically affects our fiscal indicators, of course. Between 2015 and 2019, the impact in Estonia is very likely to be around 24.69 million euros. It's an initial indication. Next year, nearly EUR 7 million has been planned for the state budget to deal with the refugee issue. Of course, these costs are still being specified. They do not automatically relate to the direct costs of the arrival of one refugee or another in Estonia, whether their rental costs, language training or translation services. These costs also include the costs of ministries and other authorities relating to the operations to be carried out as a result of refugees. So this is this magnitude. If you look at how this amount is distributed, I would certainly like to say first of all that a very large part of the money comes from the European Union. I gave you an indication of the total expenditure in terms of the so-called budget, but a large part of this money comes from Europe as well. This money is mainly divided into three ministries: Ministry of Education and Research, Ministry of Social Affairs and Ministry of the Interior. What exactly will the financial resources eventually be allocated to one municipality or another, of course, will be revealed during the budgetary procedure. But the money has already been allocated to the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U27	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U28	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The peculiarity of the Estonian tax system is that most of the tax revenue comes from VAT and excise duties, the lion's share of which is paid by natural persons. 100,000 of these natural persons have left Estonia in 20 years. Now, if 500 or 1,500 other people are brought in, it doesn't make up for these casualties. To what extent and in what way have you considered the emigration of people in the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U29	Thank you. Of course, every analytical process is based on all characteristics, not just wage increases and export capacity. Different indicators are taken as a basis. There is an independent apparatus for this purpose. No politician can say how he would like to see one figure or another in the future. Analysts shall be independent in the preparation of such analysis. So all analytical forms are taken into account to ensure that the final result is correct and adequate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U30	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U31	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I'm surprised you don't ask about immigration. You mentioned an IMF delegation visit. The IMF delegation also visited Parliament's Committee on Monetary Affairs. We had a pleasant and long conversation with them, where they basically repeated what they said in public that the potential for economic growth in Estonia was about 3%. You say we have a 2.6% growth to expect. They praised Estonia, but they said that Estonia is overreacting with conservativeness. Again, I am surprised at you, and I agree that it is also possible to overdo conservativeness. They say we put too much money aside and plan the budget with too much pro. When I asked what damage this so-called overstretching would do, the answer was very simple: this money could develop the Estonian economy, increase wages and employment and bring people back from abroad. How do you comment on our overdoing? Do you agree that the money we put aside and the plus budget are hindering faster economic development?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U32	Thank you. Look how interesting it is. We are more likely to get to the point in today's debate if someone asks that the state budget is nominally in the light minus and how we can live like this. Soon we will certainly come to this question as well. These are conflicting things. Should we then stimulate or should we not stimulate? It is certainly very important where a particular country, Estonia in our example, is located, whether or not it is at the top of its economic potential. It's definitely important whether you're moving towards the boom or not. I agree with the IMF. The IMF has pointed out in its final document that, in fact, not in the short term, but in the long term (long term), we could review our 'conservative' basic principles. He mainly brings it out when he talks about inflexibility. What do I mean by that? We have taken a decision in the basic law a few years ago that the state budget must be in balance or in surplus. We have now planned a state budget with a surplus each year. I think it's the right thing about who it is right now. I would remind you that in 2008, when there was a crisis situation around the world, including Estonia, it was mainly the reserves that helped us survive the harder time. I think that if we can gather reserves today to solve future problems with them, then here is the point. In the longer term, as the IMF said, it is inflexible that it is written in the basic law that if, in any year, there is a situation where the budget is less than it is not prohibited, the budget may go down, then in the coming years this minus must be covered immediately. The IMF says that if you cover the minus right now, for some reason, the potential plus you have coming up is not going to be able to invest back immediately, for example, in the economy, as in the current example. After 2020, the European Union's structural instruments are clearly moving towards a reduction. After all, we are working today to get more and more closer to the European Union average. The closer we get to this, the smaller the subsidies we receive from Europe will be. It is clear that the Estonian state needs to think in advance of how to implement a possible exit policy from the euro project money. I think that at some point we may need to make our very rigid system more flexible. But in the short term, in the coming years, I think this system is very sensible, it has worked very well. It gives us very clear frames. If we look at the current wage growth, it is rather a sign of the economic heat. This is, to some extent, a sign, also looking at the current unemployment rate. These are all such signs, which were in fact also before the 2008 crisis. The question is whether there is a need to give in to this. So I think that, in the near future, I expect and hope that you will share this opinion rather make sense to be conservative. However, in the distant future, you can really think about opening up a specific point in the basic law. However, this should be done in a very responsible manner so that we do not approach the cost rally.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U33	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In response to an earlier question, you began by stating that the underlying statements must be correct. I fully agree with this, and that is why I tried to check whether my underlying arguments were correct. On page 20 of the explanatory memorandum, we read that the increase in social tax revenue in 2016 is planned to be 115 million euros. On page 7 of the explanatory memorandum, it is stated that in 2016 real income growth of employees will slow down significantly as the number of employees is falling. Table 3 on page 10 states that wage growth is planned at 4.5%, and in the same table 3 we also read that employment will fall by 3700 per year. How, then, does the increase in social tax income of 4.8% occur?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U35	Thank you. On the one hand, people on the labour market are falling, linked to demographic trends, but on the other hand, wages are rising. As you said yourself, they are rising 4.5%. Let me give you an example. The income side of the Health Insurance Fund consists of 99% social tax. Next year, the income of the Health Insurance Fund will increase by EUR 50 million due to the additional levy on social tax. On the one hand, for demographic reasons, fewer people will simply remain in work, but on the other hand, wage growth will lead to an increase in social tax revenues.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U36	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U37	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You said in your speech that next year's budget will increase the confidence of families with children. Unfortunately, however, it must be noted that in next year's budget, there is not a cent planned to advise the victims of close-relationship violence, which has been funded for years by the Norwegian State's programme. Was it a deliberate decision of the government, or was it somehow overlooked?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U38	Thank you. I do not think that there is any measure that I am going to miss, I believe, that I can say that. Why would you miss it? You can certainly ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs about this in the Committee on Monetary Affairs; members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs can do so in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is certainly more competent to say about one or the other of the actions that have been priorities. In very specific sectoral policy discussions, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has a much greater competence to say what the order of priorities is. All the decisions that have come to this table are, of course, government decisions. There is no decision that would be taken by the Prime Minister, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Social Affairs or the Minister for the Interior. These are all government decisions here. The budget you are seeing on the table today is the government budget that is being put before you in the context of the budgetary procedure for next year. It's the government's idea of this thing. This document is not an understanding of one Minister for Industry. So the government bears full responsibility, in both good and bad things, we hope, of course, that the bad things here do not have shared responsibility for the whole picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U39	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U40	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Very honourable Minister! I acknowledge that internal security, including police salaries, is one of the priorities of next year's state budget. But there is another very big debt that is more than 20 years old. I mean the situation at the Pärnu police station. The appearance of these premises has not changed a cent since Estonia regained independence. Will this debt finally be redeemed in next year's state budget? Are the EUR 11.2 million planned to build new premises in the Pärnu Police Department on Tammsaare Avenue still there?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U41	Thank you. I'm sorry, good questioner! I always try to answer in substance and can give you an overview of the specific matter later in writing. Believe me, every single line of the budget isn't even in my head as a finance minister. I can certainly give you a more specific answer later. If necessary, the Minister of the Interior can also give you an overview of whether or not there is exactly such an amount in the budget for one or another specific item. I am saving time for all other members of the Riigikogu and I am not going to talk in depth and in detail about each specific budget item. However, I can say that the Minister for the Interior has done a very good job both in the budget negotiations and, of course, in the current one. Investments in several properties both on the property side and on the equipment side will be impressive next year. I'm looking at the money for a lot of things, from the design and construction of the Ruhnu and Piusa cordon to the design of the Vändra and Vastseliina commando buildings. Specifically, I will specify the Pärnu precinct's investment later.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U42	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U43	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Why has, so far, not been applied hourly wage and tax accounting to compensate for the decline in employment caused by demographic inevitability and the rise in the minimum wage, nor has it been abandoned to prevent the creation of part-time places by means of a minimum mandatory social tax package, which enables labour market flexibility to work successfully in the world to be compensated for?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U44	Thank you. There are different concepts of how to keep records in Estonia and elsewhere in the world. Estonia has considered it necessary to build on this logic and understanding, which is the basis of today's analysis. We can certainly do an analysis and debate on what makes 'hours' accounting a better principle than any other. It's always a debate question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U45	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U46	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. It's an interesting fat book. You said it was a government budget. Agreed. But already several years have the negotiations between the government and the local governments run into a deadlock, and no agreement has been signed this year. The government has deprived municipalities of both a large part of local road funding and other subsidies, not to mention the salaries of municipal school teachers. Is it a good practice that local governments and municipalities and cities should see for themselves how they can do so that the state wipes their hands out of their worries?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U47	Thank you. I will try to comment on your question and to respond to the comments that were before the question. You started by failing to pay attention to local authorities, and you pointed out that local government roads have been deprived of money. I am already saying on the ground that, unfortunately, this is not the case, or rather, it is a good thing that this is not the case. Rather, the situation is exactly the opposite: next year, the state will allocate almost EUR 30 million to local roads, which is EUR 5 million more than this year. It is certainly important that we are used to making comparisons with the best year, 2008 - the year. It was a crazy year in a good way, when just before the crisis everything was very rosy. It was essentially the only year when more money was allocated to local roads. Nearly EUR 30 million to be allocated next year - 29.7 million if I am not mistaken - is probably the largest amount allocated to local roads during the period of independence. So this is the background. In general, when it comes to the income base of local governments, how much the state will contribute to the income base, I will again give the same example of 2008 in order to be objective. This was the best year that local governments have had. Next year, in 2016, local authorities will receive EUR 144 million more than they received in 2008, which was the peak at that time. The revenue base is 878 million in 2016 and 734 million in 2008. It's a reality. Our income base has constantly increased in absolute numbers. The best examples of this are the additional budgets of local governments, including Tallinn. I may be wrong, but didn't there be an extra budget twice in Tallinn? This shows that the income of local governments is increasing, as more money is collected, income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U48	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U49	Thank you, manager. Minister of Finance! I am asking more generally about a matter such as the competitiveness of companies. For farmers, you read the figures here for a very long time, and the sums grew. I don't know how many billions you got together. But you forgot to say that with our neighbours in Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Finland, farmers will get significantly more. The question is how to keep our farmers competitive and how the country will support them. Let me give you a concrete example. Next year we will have a 14% increase in diesel excise duty, in Latvia 2% increase. On a thousand litres, the price difference is already over EUR 100. Do you believe that our companies will be refueling in Estonia in the future, and how will this affect the competitiveness of our companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U50	Thank you. I think they're gonna refuel here. I also certainly believe that it is advisable not to play tendingly with figures. Let me give you an example. VAT is 21% in Latvia, 20% in Estonia, or the value added is 1% higher in Latvia, and even 5% higher in Estonia, 20 and 21. Look at the entire tax package as a whole, up to the point that in Latvia, a company is forced to give part of its growth, its added value, through income tax to the state every year. This is not necessary in Estonia; in Estonia, this money can be reinvested in its own company. These are simply examples of one or the other tax policy decision. I believe that Estonia is competitive. This is also demonstrated by our economic indicators. Rather, tax receipts are better, economic growth is clearly positive and, in view of the future, can be even more optimistic compared to 2015 and 2016. Yeah, I think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U51	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have a question about top-up. You answered Siret Eagle's question about agriculture very long and beautifully. It is, of course, a good thing that these subsidies will be higher in the next period than in the previous one, but we are talking specifically about this time. In my opinion, paying the top-up at the moment would not be supporting agriculture, but would be primarily supporting the Estonian budget. These farms, which are now being shut down, are really going to be shut down, meaning taxes and holes in the budget for the years to come. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U53	Thank you. I don't agree with you. You said that the main thing we should pay attention to is supporting the Estonian budget. It's not like that! Honestly, the Estonian budget does not need to be supported. We must support specific sectors and deal with specific places where the problem lies. It is our constant problem that we do not channel taxpayers' money where it is most needed. The truth is, when we talk specifically about agriculture, the biggest problems now lie in pig farming and in the dairy sector, undoubtedly. Nobody says anything else. This is where resources will be channelled. Because, figuratively speaking, money does not come from the ground, we have no limitable resources, we must feel very clearly where the money must be directed. It certainly cannot be used to support the general budget, but should be given to those who need it most.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U54	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U55	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In order to improve the lives of the Estonian people, the government should have a plan to make the Estonian economy and income from companies grow to the state. What measures do you think the country should take here? Do you use credit money, liberalise business laws, bring important companies here? What's your plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U56	Thank you. This is a very good question, based on the fact that if we want the Estonian state to develop, we need to pay more and more attention to entrepreneurship. I have said this before, too, that money does not come from an ATM inside the wall, but comes from the added value of businesses. If entrepreneurship is good in Estonia, if entrepreneurs want to set up and develop their own businesses here, then it is very likely that the added value will also be higher in the coming years and, therefore, the tax revenue will be higher. I think we should act in two directions. Firstly, we should deal with the fiscal policy decisions that the legislator can take in order to stimulate Estonian entrepreneurs to set up businesses here and later develop them. To this end, the current government is taking steps. Our clear vision for the coming years will be a reduction in labour taxes. Yes, it involves increased taxation of consumption, pollution and vices. But the reduction in labour taxes is what this government has focused its energy on. If you ask what is going on next year specifically, the tax-free minimum is on the rise. This is an expensive measure, but the government has taken this decision. In addition to the increase in the general tax-free minimum, attention will be paid to low-wage earners in the following year, in particular on a "need-to-need" basis. People with a salary of 500 euros will receive almost all of the tax paid back. This is clearly a measure that will continue to contribute to economic growth in the future. The money of these people, the income tax they have paid in the past, which they will get back, will not go into deposits, but it will all go back to the Estonian economy. When it comes to next years' budgets, 2017 and 2018, there will be a reduction in social tax. Again, a clear measure in the context of lowering labour taxes. Now the other side. Like I said, the first half is tax laws. In my opinion, the other half is that the Estonian state must do everything in its power to ensure that the competitive environment in Estonia is equal and fair. What do I mean by that? I think that the measures taken by the Estonian state since the creation of the employment register will help to eliminate the competitive advantages of non-payment of taxes. I think this is the right way to go. On the one hand, competition among Estonian entrepreneurs becomes fairer and, on the other hand, it naturally brings additional financial resources to the state budget. These are the measures. Not to mention measures related to exports carried out by EAS and KredEx. So the measures that the state can take to make the Estonian entrepreneur good here are many, ending with how many minutes it takes to start a business and how little or how much there is a specific administrative bureaucracy. This is, in fact, a complex of different activities that the state should and should bear in mind in order for the company to be good here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U57	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U58	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, The refugee crisis we are experiencing has helped us to reach a slightly broader understanding of why humanitarian aid and development cooperation are important. The purpose of these activities is to provide basic living conditions for people fleeing and to ensure that they can continue their lives as close as possible to their home country after fleeing the war. Estonia, for example, has provided some 1.6 million euros of support in recent years to alleviate the humanitarian situation of Syrian refugees in Jordan, Lebanon, Iraq and also Turkey. In addition, we have doubled this year's aid to Ukraine. If I look at the draft budget for next year, we will have EUR 11.9 million for development and humanitarian aid. This is about 0.15% of GDP. What were the discussions during the autumn budgeting process over this amount in the government? If these crises continue, do you think that Estonia can increase its contribution?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U59	Thank you. As you yourself said, EUR 11.9 million is earmarked for development cooperation and humanitarian aid. This level is the 2015 level, there is no reduction here. It is worth mentioning, too, what are Estonia's priorities for development cooperation and humanitarian aid by country and by sector, as this will certainly determine our development cooperation and humanitarian aid package. The development plan itself has been drawn up for the years 2016 to 2020 and this development plan, which starts next year, has essentially the same priorities as the development plan covering the years 2011 to 2015. Here we have identified our priority partner countries. It is certainly good for members of the Riigikogu to know that Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova, Belarus and Afghanistan are our priority countries. When it comes to what are the areas here, we have emphasised them within the Estonian state, but also in the case of our potential partner countries: education, health, strengthening democracy and the rule of law, and, of course, peace and stability. Those are the things. You asked about the debates. All ministers in the sector work with a commitment to shaping their policies within the limits of the budget. As you can see, during the next development plan period, the Minister of Foreign Affairs will operate in exactly these frameworks. There will be money next year, and both measures and countries will receive their share of the Estonian state budget, the Estonian taxpayer's money.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U60	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum to the draft State Budget Act shows that the contribution of the Estonian Development Fund will decrease by 23% or almost a quarter next year. It falls from EUR 1 million to EUR 770000. There's no explanation in the explanatory memorandum. Maybe you can explain it and explain it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U62	Thank you. I think that funds and foundations operate on the basis of their own budget. The Minister will certainly be able and considers it necessary to answer you separately as to why the budget of the Development Fund has fallen next year. Certainly, the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be able to clarify this in the budgetary procedure. We are only at the beginning of the budgetary process. In the next two months, the real process will come, not only in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but also in the Riigikogu's plenary. Then you can respond specifically and specifically on a specific budget item.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U63	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Minister of Finance! The Ministry of Finance reports in the explanatory memorandum that the number of employees has fallen by 154 people. Unfortunately, the main decrease has taken place in the Tax and Customs Board, with a total of 198 people. Is such a reduction reasonable? According to the former Head of the Tax Administration, every euro he receives can be earned tenfold by reducing tax fraud and the shadow economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U65	Thank you. That's a good question. There must always be a sense of how much could be invested and how much should be invested in one sector or another. I fully agree with you that the Tax and Customs Board is an extremely effective agency. In fact, especially compared to similar institutions in other countries. Our potential tax hole is very small. Note the very interesting nuance: we have remained essentially unchanged or rather reduced by 1%, but the VAT receipts have increased. How do you explain the anomaly? How can VAT receipts increase if turnover decreases? This is certainly one example of the fact that the Tax and Customs Board has done a good job. But the general tendency is that not only the Tax and Customs Board, but the whole public sector will be pulling itself together next year. It has a role to play, as I said in the introductory speech, in the fact that, for demographic reasons, our working age population is simply decreasing. The Estonian state must certainly follow this trend, and it cannot be over or over. If we generalise, we will see the fall of 750 people at the level of the general government of Estonia or, more specifically, at the level of the central government, next year. I think this tendency in nature is correct. If you come back to the Tax and Customs Board again, you have to say that they work extremely efficiently. There will be additional financial resources from next year's budget. I am sure you noticed, looking at the budget, that more than EUR 20 million would be earmarked for investments. It is, I dare say, one of the greatest investments ever made to improve the capacity of the Tax and Customs Board. This money is used to procure various x-ray equipment, both mobile and stationary. Why do you have to do that? Basically because you may have noticed that we also have higher excise duties next year and certainly no one can promise that the share of the secret market will not increase or that it will not want to increase. Consequently, the Tax and Customs Board must also improve its capacity. So very clear investments are being made in the equipment of the Tax and Customs Board. In summing up, it has to be said that it is one agency that has worked extremely efficiently and its efficiency dimension is essentially tax revenue. Comparable databases are available for the period. I have just said that despite the fact that turnover remains the same, the increase in VAT revenue has been noticeable.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U66	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance! Was Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Education and Science, also present at the budget debate and did you give him the floor or was he just quiet in the corner? The point is that science is an asset of the country's sustainability. We do not have a priority according to his budget, but are in decline. Around the world, it is clear that even standing in one place requires a very quick run, or the world will turn away. We have the euro money that has come to science, implemented for years to fill budget gaps and reduce our contribution. At present, forecasts show that if the current fiscal policy continues, the catastrophic collapse of Estonian science will only take place in 2022. Are we just considering today's crises, or are we looking forward? You can't see that in the funding of science. Let me draw attention to one more thing. We talk a lot about migrants. If the national sciences remain in crisis, the integration capacity of migrants will be zero.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U68	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U69	Thank you. I, in turn, will try to comment on the comment and also to answer the question myself. You started by asking whether the Minister of Education and Science has been present at all, and if so, whether he has been sitting in the corner and quiet. I am telling you that the Minister of Education has not sat in the corner, the Minister of Education is very competent in his field, he has been well informed about it for six months and he is fighting for education. Believe me, he will do everything in his power to ensure that the education system functions well and that the policies that we have jointly set out in the government for the future are implemented. I'm losing all your suspicions. Although currently the Minister of Education is in Korea, I assure you that, regardless of the country in which he is in, he is certainly constantly thinking about education policy. As regards the funding of research, I would like to tell you that, if this year, in 2015, the state's contribution to the funding of science is 46%, then next year the state's contribution will be 51.1% and foreign resources will be less than 50%. On your question or, let's say, in the commentary, the correct statement was that the volume of funding in 2016 will be smaller than in 2015. There's a reason. In essence, this funding period starting in 2014 is still only beginning and the activities of the previous period have just ended. I'm sure there's a reason. By the way, in the funding of science, I am a little concerned about the fact that I think we should definitely review these different statistical indicators in the future. I think we should clean them up. It seems to me that there is no final clarity as to how much science is still funded. I dare say that quite a number of sums, which have also gone into concrete, have been excluded from the statistics. I think we should pay more attention to this in order to make the statistical side right. I think it should definitely be dealt with next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U70	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U71	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. In Estonia, one in three people is known to belong to a mature age group that receives a pension. They will always look with great interest at what the budget for next year will be. As we know, just under 80,000 people work in parallel among them. Would you compactly summarise what happens to pensions in the next financial year, how much money will be spent on the budget, and perhaps also assess the sustainability of our pension system? Very briefly, if that is possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U72	Thank you. This topic is so wide that I think the entire Riigikogu session could be spent, spent in a good way, dissecting it from different aspects. I am really trying to sum this up briefly. I think that discussions on this and many other issues are ahead of us, but I will bring out some more important indicators. Pensioners certainly want to know that the average pension will rise to EUR 21 next year, from EUR 374 to EUR 395. It's a very important indication. More importantly, the same average pension will be exempt from income tax next year. Why do I stress that? In many countries, pension income tax is taxed from its initial position, but we have agreed that income tax is higher than the average. Average pension is exempt from income tax. This political decision was taken years ago, not long ago, and regardless of the government, it has been respected in recent years. Every time additional money has been found in the state budget, it was also found by 2016 in order to keep the average pension exempt. This is an important message for all pensioners that the Estonian state does not take income tax from the pension, an additional tithe. In previous years, a person has worked for the Estonian state and paid income tax on his salary each month. These are the most important attributes. Of course, the state budget has the highest financial capacity for pensions. Next year, EUR 1.66 billion will be retiring at national level. Answering the other side of your question would take the most time to describe the concepts of the sustainability of the pension system. I think that across Europe there is a question of the sustainability of pension systems in different countries, as there is a clear trend towards an ageing population in other European countries, not only in Estonia, but also in other European countries. Taxpayers will be reduced and there will be more people in retirement. How can we cope with this situation, not only in anno Domini 2016, but also in 20 to 30 years' time? These are the questions that need to be answered. I think with this one budget, we will not resolve these issues. This is definitely a separate issue. In my introduction, I said that there will continue to be a debate on how countries should cope in this demographic situation. But once again, pensions will rise next year, they will rise 5.7%, and the average pension will reach EUR 395, and all of these EUR 395 will be exempt from income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U73	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. When reading the audit of the National Audit Office and listening to ministers on committees, the question arises as to why operating leases are used for the acquisition of the state's numerous car fleet, where, contrary to the financial lease, it is compulsory to pay the insurance scheme. After all, the costs of repairing or scrapping cars that have been completely damaged during the year are small compared to the cost of the car insurance, and it would also be possible to obtain revenue from the sale of depreciation cars, not to mention saving the budget costs by saving the cost of the car insurance.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U75	Where did you read all this beautifully? [[Interjection.]] Good member of the Riigikogu! I think I'm sure there's every possibility. There are capital leases and operating leases, and it is certainly possible for sectoral ministers to decide, in their area of administration, which decisions they will take, in a particular case, then decide the way in which they will use to finance the purchase of a means of transport. We're definitely not going to dissect it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U76	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U77	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! When I listened to your introductory speech, I remembered another historical formation when someone inflammatoryly instilled faith in a bright future and promised pinkmanna, saying that everything was okay, let's do five years in three years. Now let's get to the subject! Mr Ligi has so far failed to explain correctly the financing of education next year. We have received conflicting answers, including completely zero responses and negative responses. In other words, the 4% increase in the allowed teachers' payroll has been replaced by a 'wage increase' of 3%. Your statement that the funding for teachers has increased is not true. Now the question: what is the minimum wage for teachers from 1 January 2016?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U78	Thank you. You started by recalling some earlier speech from a couple of decades ago. I have to say, I don't remember these calls that much. I'm sure you'll remember them more precisely. I can say that the explanatory memorandum will create a real picture of what will happen next year. I wouldn't say it was written in a pink or optimistic view. Rather, looking at the budget, it seems that what we are seeing is very realistic. As regards the education sector in particular, I cannot say whether the Minister of Education has been able to answer your questions or not. I think he has given you a complete overview of the budget process. If you claim that there are no additional resources in the education sector for future wage increases, you are mistaken. We have four priority areas: education, social affairs, culture and internal security. Please note that education is included in this list. It is true that the Minister for Rural Affairs would be right to say that there is no additional wage resources in his area from the state budget. He must rely on internal structural reforms to increase the level of pay possible. The Minister of Education has done a very good job in dealing with the budget. Let us not forget that this is only a first reading. Until the third reading, the Minister of Education will also be able to make changes within the field. At present, we see an increase of 4% in the size of the payroll fund. I do not exclude that the Minister of Education will work in the coming months, before the third reading and before the closure of the budget, to ensure that the actual increase in teachers' salaries next year is even greater. He has started working to channel the investment component into teachers' salaries, and he has a number of other activities under way. We have a clear plan that, if the financial capacity suffers, by the end of this period of governance, by 2019, teachers' wages will be 120% of the average wage in Estonia. That is the goal we want to pursue. Yeah, it's an ambitious plan, but that's what we want. We have said that education is clearly our priority. As I said before, it is a common government budget. It is not the budget of the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Education; it is our common budget. We will do everything we can to ensure that the ambitions that are common to ministers in different areas are realised. True story, I would like to congratulate Jürgen Ligi because he has taken up the Ministry of Education very strongly in a good way. He's really looking for places to work effectively. I believe that during this process, we will see that it comes up with additional resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U79	Procedural question, March Sults, please! A microphone for the March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U80	Mr Minister, you did not answer the question about the level of minimum teacher's salary on 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U81	This is not a procedural remark. Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U82	Minister, thank you very much. I have a question about sport. The investment in Lilleküla Stadium was previously examined here. There are a number of positive things in the budget that will help to move the sport sector forward, such as coach pay, etc. But when we made the coalition agreement, we also focused on issues such as abolishing the special preferential tax on sports activities, switching from judges' scholarships to employment contracts, etc. in the field of sport. We also discussed allocating a percentage of the profits of state-owned enterprises to sport. Is there any way to deal with these issues in this budget? If not, will the Ministry of Finance plan to deal with these matters in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U83	Yes, sports-related issues are relevant in a number of respects, from funding to coach wages. There are many nuances that affect sport to a greater or lesser extent. As far as the remuneration of coaches is concerned, it is foreseen next year that the payroll will increase for coaches with a V or higher level of professional qualification, precisely because of the transition from scholarships to pay. That was already agreed. We will see an additional increase of 0.1 million euros next year. This wage subsidy for coaches consists first of 50% of the state budget and 50% is the contribution of sports schools or sports clubs. However, I think that it is even more important to finance sport in general, where there are currently no 'final solutions'. This process is still under development. Let's look at the sport funding. Where does sports get money? I'll leave the private supporters out of this, we'll talk at national level. Sport receives money directly from the state budget, kulkka, Gambling Tax Council, state companies. There are different ways of getting money from sport. I think it's really good that sport gets money. As I said with reference to one previous response, I support with two hands all the ideas that increase the money that is directed at sport. However, the different measures certainly raise the question of whether the financing scheme is comprehensible, well thought out and correct. I think that this should be discussed by people who are more in contact with sport, including those in the Riigikogu who feel that they could and should discuss how to still bring funding to better foundations. As Minister of Finance, I, too, have raised the question of whether or not this financing scheme is right when it comes to public enterprises. I have been told over time that a state company has the right or almost an obligation to give up 1,5% of its profits for sport. It's already taken as a priori. You're obliged to pay how you don't pay now! In my opinion, the question is whether a private operator would do so. He'd probably think if he was supporting something, why would he do it? I would assume that there could also be an analogous situation with national companies, for example. I think that we should increasingly bring sport funding to the state budget level. That would be clear, transparent and understandable. I think we should involve the Estonian Olympic Committee even more in the future, where there will certainly be more concentration of competence. There have been different arguments, it has also been said the opposite, that this should not be done. It's a discussion place. I would certainly rather see different sources of funding for sport, all of which is public money. Once again, we are talking about public money. I would rather see the concentration of funding in the state budget here. But this is the point of discussion. I'm open to discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U84	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U85	Honourable Chairman! Dear Minister, In line with the decline in the working age population, the number of employees in the public sector should also decrease. This is expected to decrease by 700 employees per year, including at central government level by 350 per year. The very right direction has been taken to reduce the number of employees. The Ministry of Social Affairs makes the biggest contribution to this, with a total of 236 employees there being this individual number. I have not fully understood which jobs are being lost in the Ministry of Social Affairs. My question is whether there is a restructuring of some kind of work. In your area of government, a good example is the tax administration, which has reorganized its work, which has allowed jobs to be reduced. What restructuring is taking place in the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs? One of the major restructurings I know is the implementation of SkyS 2 but it will only take place in 2017. What's going on next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U86	Thank you. Good question. The big picture takes the view that, in the context of reducing the number of employees, more attention is paid to various support services. When we ask whether we see, in this process, an essentially 'first front', such as a drop in the number of doctors, I am rather in the negative view. Rather, it is about supporting services. Of course, every minister in the sector has the right and the resulting obligation to take these decisions within the field. But I'm relying on what's been discussed in the government office and in the government hearing. The Minister of Social Affairs has also stated that the reduction is rather linked to support services, and he will take a look at it. I think that, for example, next spring could be the time when the Riigikogu could also pay attention to this issue. As Minister for Finance, I will certainly start to pay attention to this in order to see whether the proposals and understandings that we are agreeing on in the course of the state budget procedure in the autumn can be realised, or whether it is simply a fine story on paper that the population is ageing, the number of people of working age is decreasing, etc. I think I'm gonna check it myself. In my opinion, Parliament could also ask for a separate overview of what ministers are doing in the spring. Why spring, but not fall next year? In fact, all ministries are already starting this work. We have not fixed 1 January here, but today. All activities that are already taking place are covered by this understanding. I think that since this has been going on for over six months in March-April, there is certainly reason to ask about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U87	George Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U88	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Thank you very much, Minister for Finance, for your serious speech and your substantive answers. I will continue with Aivar Sõerd's first question related to the important investment in Estonian sport. You have justified this necessity and said that this investment by A.Le Coq Arena, EUR 5 million, should be regarded as State aid in the sense that it should not be intended for just one sport that is practiced there. As a minister, do you also see the possibility of building this object in such a way that it is a closed object that can be used by players from different sports, including those who need internal conditions for organising competitions? Could this be a priority for you in the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U89	Thank you. The specific allocation relates to the Ministry of Culture. The Minister for Culture certainly has a very clear idea of how this investment should be implemented and how it should benefit all parties. I also said earlier that, especially given the size of the investment, it is important in my view that this is the context of State aid. This, in turn, means, as I said before, that this object should not only be intended for those involved in this particular professional sport, but, as the State aid rules say, at least 20% of its annual volume should also be open to other interested parties. It must really be open to a number of users and the system must be transparent and non-discriminatory. I think that the Minister of Culture will act on these guidelines.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U90	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U91	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. I regret that, although I have the right to ask two questions, I must actually waste them both on the same question. I have been reading different budgets for 25 years and making an excellent distinction between revenue and expenditure. I asked you about revenue: T like Taavi or Tarmo Tamm. The slides you presented have indicated an increase in revenue of 3% and an increase in tax revenue of 5.3%. If I compare the forecasted figures for 2016 and the 2015 budget figures and calculate them, the percentages will be 4.6 and 7.6. I'm trying to figure out what the difference is. Are you suddenly forecasting a massive over-charge of this year's budget? If that is the case, where can I read these expected recovery forecasts?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U92	Thank you. I'll be more specific. Revenues with an increase of 3% and a total volume of EUR 8.8 billion consist of three segments, if you could say so: tax revenues, non-tax revenues and transferable revenues. You asked me what 5.3% is when the revenue itself grows by 3%. It is these tax revenues that are increasing by 5.3%. I can tell you that the non-tax revenue will decrease by 7.9% and the revenue to be passed on will increase by 5%. This 5.3% applies to tax revenue in the amount of total revenue. If you ask for tax revenues, they are social tax, VAT, excise duties on fuel, income tax on natural persons, income tax on legal persons. In the following year, all these positions are generally on the rise, with the exception of income tax on legal persons, which will decrease in the following year as there were extraordinary receipts this year. The percentage levels are different. While VAT will rise by just over 7% next year, social tax has risen by 4.8% at the same time. All of this represents an increase in tax revenues of EUR 316 million, or 5.3%.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U93	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U94	Dear Minister, It was already the subject of spending on the reception of immigrants and refugees in the state budget for the following year. It was good to at least hear the real numbers. I'm sure you're very familiar with this and much more excited than any other person in this Republic. Can you please state quickly and in detail what kind of ministry money and what amount is planned for receiving refugees, accommodation, integration, hiring supporters for them? I am equally interested in the figures in the field of education. The figures that have passed through the media have been very controversial, while other ministers have rolled this subject like hot potatoes. Surely you are the most educated in this area and you can give us the most accurate and correct answers. What kind of ministry and how much money is planned to be allocated?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U95	Thank you. Don't flatter me! I certainly do not know everything; the ministers of the field are much more competent in the field of their ministry. It is natural, yet the Minister of the Sector knows his budget most precisely. But since the costs of refugees have been allocated between several ministries, I will try to give you a first indication. I would like to point out immediately that these are indicative effects. In the future, if you are using debates or in the press, you will see that the pen was nicely served with quotations and statements, then also note that these are indicative effects, since the final costs, such as the cost of searching for housing on the rental market, will be revealed when specific dwellings exist. However, if you look at which ministries the costs are divided, they are mainly divided so that education grants, language training costs and other such things come from the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of the Interior finances adaptation programmes, covers mission and procedural costs, the Ministry of Social Affairs covers accommodation and all the expenditure on the whole side of it. As I said, next year there will be 7 million specific measures, namely EUR 7.04 million. If you look by government area, by 2016 the budget sets out that the Ministry of Education and Research will receive 0.36 million euros, the Ministry of the Interior 2.6 million euros and the Ministry of Social Affairs 0.26 million euros. This represents a total of EUR 3.22 million. In addition, we have booked EUR 3.9 million in government reserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U96	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U97	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, In the Estonian Film Archives there is a film section with such a proud episode of Konstantin Päts walking over the newly opened Pärnu Suursilla in 1938. Why am I talking about this? A large oak pannoo hangs over the bridge with the Roman numerals XX. In just over two years, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland will have a hundred-year anniversary. Is there any amount in next year's budget that we would try to build some excellent new objects for the anniversary of the Republic's birth, especially in Pärnu, the country's birth town?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U98	Thank you. After all, there are many objects that will be built in Estonia next year. I don't have a regionally well-defined full list of objects being built in one city or another or in a county. I'm sure the Minister for Foreign Affairs will give you a more accurate overview of this. As regards Pärnu, it is recalled that next year it will be allocated to sport, but sport and culture will go hand in hand with half a million euros to Pärnu Stadium. That's one thing about Pärnu that came to my mind right away. As a friend of the heart of the Estonian film industry, I would certainly like to mention what will be attractive for the cultural field next year: we will allocate an additional 0.5 million euros next year for the mechanism for supporting films produced in Estonia. It's definitely a new and interesting thing. We stimulate film producers to come to Estonia in order to do filmmaking, create art and also produce added value. What is this stimulation? If you are here, you will therefore consume the services that are offered in Estonia, pay taxes and other expenses. If you do, half a million euros will be paid for the costs incurred in purchasing goods and services in Estonia, of course, when cost documents are submitted, which are checked, etc. I thought it was necessary to mention it to you because you've always been close to the movie. This is certainly an important incentive to come to Estonia to make a culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U99	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U100	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Agriculture has already been discussed here today. It is, of course, a pleasure to note that certain subsidies have been planned for the budget. This shows that farmers did not go to Toompea without their tractors, and the government has begun to sense that there is no rural land without agriculture. However, unfortunately, the next year's budget still does not include a national supplement, the so-called top-up. I am interested, specifically, in which coalition partners and perhaps also which ministers have so categorically opposed it and what their reasons have been.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U101	Thank you. I'd look at it in the wider picture. As I have also answered a somewhat similar question in the past, all ministers and the whole government are interested in ensuring that the agricultural sector is doing well. This interest also shows the financial allocations that will be made in 2016 and which have actually been agreed for a longer period. If we look at the allocation of funds not only in 2016, but also in the coming years, we will see that, really, in the overall view for the next financing period, as I said earlier, there will be EUR 226 million in additional financing, compared to the previous period 2007 to 2013. This is an important indication, which shows that more money is coming into this sector. But now, when we talk very specifically about the end of 2015 and 2016, I think we need to pay our attention to where the shoe squeezes most in agriculture. Dairy and pig farming are the sectors where the shoe squeezes the most at the moment. If you look at the government's proposals and the government's actions in this direction, you will see that an additional EUR 7.6 million has come from the European Union budget. By the way, given the proportion ratio between Estonia and Europe, it can be said that the EUR 7.6 million granted by Europe is much more helpful than this proportion would have resulted from. I certainly want to congratulate the Minister for Rural Affairs, who has done a very good job of negotiating in Europe, achieving this additional financial support from Europe. When this EUR 7.6 million came, the Government of the Republic of Estonia immediately took a political decision to allocate another EUR 7.6 million. Agricultural issues are topical, both today and in the future, and the government will certainly pay attention to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U102	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U103	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! For the last year of the milk quota, Estonia has to pay the European Commission an excess levy of EUR 2.2 million. There is an absurd situation in which milk producers are reducing production and closing the doors of their businesses, but at the same time the state is paying millions of euros to the European Commission, which in turn is paying us crisis aid. What's with the weird money circulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U104	Thank you. The specifications in the context of the use of EU funds are clearly regulated under the terms of the support projects. Estonia has, in the past, today and in the future, met and met all the conditions that have been imposed on it. So if it's fixed under the circumstances that we're forced to pay back some money, then we will. If we have been told that such and such requests must be made in order to be able to receive additional money from European Union funds, we will naturally submit these requests and we will fight to make this money even greater. So these conditions are always fixed within the framework of existing projects.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U105	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The section of the Ministry of Education and Research of the explanatory memorandum on the state budget is written in a slightly different way, it is based on performance areas and programmes and it describes activities and metrics. The Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Education and Research claimed that this was a leading project. Will the explanatory memorandum to the entire state budget take the same shape in the coming years, meaning that it will be based on programmes and performance areas? Hence the question about the hall of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre. The government only confirms investment in higher education and research in 2016. Can we hope that this hall will find its own place there too?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U107	Thank you. I'm gonna start from a distance talking about this hall. Again, I say that if it goes well with a specific budget, there are hundreds, if not thousands, of km, then it is better to communicate directly with the Minister for Industry, who will certainly give you immediate and quick answers. However, as far as the general future of the state budget is concerned, you had a very correct statement that in 2016 the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research is already slightly different from that of other ministries. This is a flagship project, precisely in the context that we are trying to change this entry. If, in general, the state budget has so far been such that we can see who gets the money, which institution or agency is the one through which the money is spent, then in the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research, we are creating a new paradigm, a new approach. It is not who spends this money that matters, but what projects are being done, what projects are being dealt with and what lights are expected to come. There is an increasing number of activity-based rather than administrative ones. It will be a pilot project in 2016, a vision for the next few years. The negotiations with the ministries are going on to see how it's going to work next year. In the coming years, the budget needs to be made more and more activity-based, which should certainly, I think, be our priority. I think this is the right direction. Outside the Ministry of Education and Research, the budget is, I think, important to note here, just as previous budgets have been, essentially cash-based. However, we are becoming more and more accrual-based; society as a whole is becoming accrual-based. A cashier-based approach is not right. However, in the case of an accruals approach, all commitments that are not seen as a cash-based approach are also included. I hope and expect that by making the 2017 budget, we will be talking about an accruals budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U108	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U109	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Mr. Minister! When you introduced us to the state budget for next year, you mentioned that this budget would ensure an agreed increase in medical staff's salary. Some medical workers are known to receive salaries directly from the state budget (employment aid), part of the local government budgets (part of nursing services), part of the health insurance fund and some private institutions that receive money from people. How do you intend to ensure that all these medical staff receive the same level of wage increases when they are paid from different sources? How will you ensure this level in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U110	Good chairman of the sitting! Minister of Finance! I am happy to continue on the topic of joint buildings raised by my colleague Toomas Kivimägi, the Pärnu Police and Rescue Department. I have a sincere desire to come and ensure that the issue of provisions is clarified in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. According to the 2016 draft State Budget Act, the amount is set at EUR 229000 in 2015, EUR 11,1 million in 2016 and EUR 2,4 million in 2017. In total, therefore, EUR 13,9 million. At the same time, I have received information that the Ministry of Internal Affairs has proposed to Riigi Kinnisvara AS to suspend the project because there is a lack of the circa 5 million euros needed to fully implement the planned project. As a member of the government, do you have any information to comment on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U111	Thank you. Wage increases have been agreed for two consecutive years. This is guaranteed by law and also by the budget. As I know very well, you are one of the members of the Health Insurance Board and you will also see the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. I'm sure these agreements have strained the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, but the agreement is the law, it's for enforcement. The budget makes provision for this. If you look at the budget of the Health Insurance Fund more specifically, I think that, partly on the basis of this wage agreement, the budget for next year is still in deficit. The costs go beyond income, although the absolute value of the social tax will be higher next year, tens of millions of euros will be added to the social tax in addition to the health insurance fund, but these agreements, mainly related to wages, will create a situation where the health insurance fund will be in deficit next year. This is compensated by the fact that the sickness fund has a reserve to cover this deficit, but it would certainly not be sustainable in the long term. But there's a specific deal today. The agreements are for implementation; therefore, the budget also provides for money.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U112	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question is about the unemployment fund. Today, the unemployment fund has a reserve of EUR 610 million. Despite the proposal by employers and trade unions to reduce the payment to 2% and the Free Party has proposed a reduction of the tax to even 1.4%, which would cover the current costs of the unemployment fund, the tax rate remained unchanged and is 2.4% in 2016, which means that the reserve will increase further by EUR 40 million. Consequently, I have two questions. Why, then, is this reserve collected to such an extent? Secondly, does this reserve, which amounts to EUR 650 million, also stand at the fund's expense at the end of 2016, and what will happen next?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U114	Thank you. That's a good question. I'll answer that, of course. First of all, I am talking about changes in the unemployment insurance rate and possible changes in the unemployment insurance rate. I would like to draw Parliament's attention to the fact that only some time ago the unemployment insurance rate was 4.2% and was reduced to 3%. Now, just a year ago, it was lowered to 2.4%. This 2.4% is divided between the employer and the employee. If you look to the future, it's always a question of where this is the right level and what it should be. If you also note the so-called timeline, you will see that the unemployment contribution rate has been reduced, as I have described to you now, but has been raised over time. We are now seeing that there is a work capacity reform in preparation that is planned to be launched by the middle of next year, and it will use the funds of the unemployment fund next year. This creates additional costs for the unemployment fund. We are not sure of the final projections of how the work capacity reform will start. Rather, we think that we should act more conservatively at the moment, on the basis that, once the work capacity reform has started, the initial estimates have been made, we will understand the final costs. Certainly, economic indicators in the near future also give an understanding as to whether or not confidence in the economy is getting worse in society. These are the perceptions that we are now considering that there is no need for a further reduction in the unemployment contribution rate that has already been reduced. I agree with you that if questions are answered and confidence increases, the trend of reducing unemployment insurance contributions should certainly continue. Unemployment insurance is also part of the labour taxes and labour costs that we have talked about. I fully agree with you in this regard. Your second question, I remember, was whether this money would still exist at the end of 2016 and it has not disappeared and who will use it. After all, it has already been decided that the user of this money is still the unemployment fund itself, not anyone else. He's gonna tell me what kind of payouts are made specifically. The money is somewhere on the Treasury accounts, in our general liquidity fund, but it's still specifically the unemployment fund's own money, no one else can decide to use it. The unemployment fund itself, of course, is in the business.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U115	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U116	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I am, in itself, pleased that you have said several times in this Chamber today that the agricultural sector as a whole is not a government priority.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U117	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U118	You have foreseen an increase in excise duties on fuel, 10% on petrol and 14% on diesel. Diesel is also important in the agricultural sector, including forestry, to a certain extent in fisheries. The Latvians are only raising the excise duty on diesel by 2%. Where does this very optimistic fuel excise increase come from? Do you have an analysis of how this should affect the economy in different sectors of the economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U119	Thank you. There's nothing to do, sooner or later it's gonna happen that constructiveity is gonna go away and I'm gonna have words in my mouth that I haven't said. No, I have not said that agriculture is not a priority. Agriculture is clearly a priority for the whole government. I have said that, under limited resources, we should see where the shoe squeezes most. You have to focus your attention on it, not spread out to everyone. That's what I told you. As for the rise in excise duty and its analysis, we had a proper debate on it in the spring, just before the summer vacation. Yes, of course the tests have been carried out. You remember that debate. We have no reason to believe that these analyses are based on incorrect assumptions. There are several risks taken as a basis. If you want to know what these risks are, then, of course, cross-border trade is a clear risk, a possible increase in the black market is clearly a risk. These risks are taken as a basis for the analysis. It is based on a certain degree of elasticity, i.e. a reduction in consumption, because cross-border trade has become an issue or because people consume less fuel because fuel is five cents more expensive, for example. This is the analytical basis. I said earlier about the black market that the tax administration would be provided with additional resources to reduce the black market share. Yes, these measures are taken and the analysts have also taken these measures into account in the future revenue forecast.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U120	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U121	Thank you. I think that this issue has gone well into the letter of the verbatim and we can certainly debate it further with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I don't have any substantive information to add to this. We can certainly ask the Minister for the Interior separately what allocations and what priorities he has in one or another regional policy direction. This is certainly the level of competence of the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U122	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U123	The hardworking and willing members of the Reform Party have proposed to extend today's plenary session of the Riigikogu to 14 o'clock. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put this proposal to the vote. Dear members of the Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Reform Party Group to extend today's plenary session of the Riigikogu to 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. 67 members of the Riigikogu voted against, with 6 abstentions. Today's session will run until 14:00. Let's continue, Minister. Let's get on with the questions. My colleague Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U124	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Last time, I asked why you were keeping the municipalities on the hunger pile, and I pointed out that the association of rural governments and cities did not coordinate the budget negotiations, suggesting that the funds allocated to local authorities were five times lower. But what I am asking is whether you intend to allocate to the National Audit Office the lousy EUR 200,000 they need to control, audit and see the insane use of the funds of the Ministry of Defence, or maybe the crats are not involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U125	Thank you. First of all, thank you for the opportunity to sit down for a minute! That must have been refreshing. You know, that EUR 200000 isn't a lousy amount. Don't say that! I think that every monetary amount of money, especially when it comes to taxpayers' money, is worthwhile. I call on you not to use such words in this Chamber, even if you are a member of the Riigikogu. As far as the National Audit Office is concerned, we have taken the view that in the near future we will not create more jobs. According to our data, the National Audit Office has the financial capacity to perform these tasks. I have reason to believe this in the debate on last year's state budget, which also transferred to Parliament in the context of the National Audit Office. I would like to remind those Members who did not participate in the work of the previous Riigikogu that this is a new composition of the Riigikogu, we are currently dealing with the first state budget of the new Riigikogu, that last year there was a debate on similar amounts and target orientation in the government, as well as in Parliament's Committee on Monetary Affairs. Parliament then found that the tasks currently placed on the shoulders of the National Audit Office can be performed with the available financial resources. All the more reason to believe that this decision was taken last year at Parliament's level. However, if, during the procedure, discussions lead to improvements in capacity, it is certainly a separate issue. It's just now that there's been a presumption that this capacity exists. You brought up the Department of Defense on the matter. I don't think this is about the Department of Defense or some other ministry. The task of the National Audit Office is to control the use of state funds. His competence has been broadened over time, and I think it is very right. The use of the state's financial resources has certainly raised questions on several occasions, so the National Audit Office has done a good job and will certainly continue to do so. The employees of the National Audit Office are highly qualified. They're doing a grateful job.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U126	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Finance! Looking at government budgets, it is striking that the Ministry of Education and Research, including the Government of the Republic's education grants, will decrease by 2.9% compared to this year. How is it still possible, with declining budgetary resources, to ensure that teachers' salaries rise to 20% higher than the average wage? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U128	Thank you. It is certainly worth looking at the reasons why one or the other budgetary position is declining compared to 2015. Let me give you an example. If you look at the Ministry of the Environment, you will see a very high percentage reduction compared to 2015 and 2016. It is certainly worth observing what one or the other decrease is due to. In the Ministry of the Environment, the reason for the decrease is structural funds, in the Ministry of Education and Research the main reason is foreign funds. That's the reason. If we look, as you have also asked, in the event of a decrease in teachers' salaries next year, the state budget itself will show an increase. In the state budget, the amounts are stated; the payroll fund 2015 versus 2016 is increasing. It's black on white and there's no reason to doubt it. I've spoken!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U129	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U130	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Mr. Minister! There was a discussion earlier about whether the budget was in surplus or in deficit. You were afraid someone would ask about the minus. Now, if I haven't missed anything, I haven't been asked, and I'll ask myself. Really, this debate, whether we have a plus or a minus budget, has come from time to time. My complaint was not directly that the budget was positive, nor the one you referred to. The problem is that we have these two points of discussion. We are constantly talking about a positive budget, while in the last seven years we have completed at least half of the state budget in minus. Do you understand what this is about? We talk about different things, mix them up, and give the public a misleading or slightly vulgar signal. It's what annoys people.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U131	Thank you. I don't think there's any whistling signals. You said that in half the years, the budget has been nominally negative. I remember Kadri Simson once said, in the introductory part of his question, that it had been negative for eight years. You've corrected him now. True, some years have had a nominally clear positive budget, such as this one, 2015 and last year, 2014. You see, we are getting to exactly whether we should be stimulating the economy with public money, which is definitely what it means. It is very important to monitor the structural position, eliminate one-off revenues and costs from the positions. If you make longer forecasts on the basis of one-off revenues or costs, it doesn't actually give the whole picture. The whole of Europe and the world are monitoring the structural position. We have indeed set ourselves an ambitious target of 0.6% of the structural surplus. Its equivalent is now 0.1% nominal minus. This is, by the way, better at the time of adoption of the budget than a year ago when the nominal forecast minus was even 0.5%. As we know, we're assuming this year that the nominal minus doesn't occur. The structural position gives a real picture of where we are, and it is very clearly consistent with the economic cycle. The logic of the economic cycle is crucial to understand whether we have achieved our potential or not, whether we need to revive the economy or not. These are important issues. Let me give you an example. If the additional pension payments by the State were to be taken out of one-off costs, the bonuses paid for the interim suspension of payments would automatically be positive in nominal terms. In 2017, as you know, these payments will end. This is a constructive and correct approach to base the structural balance. There's nothing weird about it. It's the foundation everywhere. It is also a basis for the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U132	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U133	You see, in a minute you received four or five questions, all related to cars. I'll try to give you a general answer, if that's all right with you. True, I understood the context of your question, and I would argue that we are clearly on the same page here, regardless of what our political views are in general. I think that, since taxpayers' money is shared with the state budget, it should be in the interest of all of us, and it should be our aim, that taxpayers' money be used efficiently. Different methods and ways of making better use of taxpayers' money should be on our table. We welcome all actions that will help to achieve this objective. I understand that we are in agreement here, whether it is cars or other investments or public budget expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U134	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U135	Thank you, President-in-Office. Thank you, Minister, for all these patiently given answers. Although I did not get an answer to my previous question on the restoration of the top-up, who is against it in particular. But we have heard from your very meaningful answers that the budget for admission of immigrants for the following year is set at EUR 8 million. I would like to point out that this really is taxpayers' money, as you have just said, and the taxpayer certainly has not given the government a mandate to receive immigrants or to spend that money. Do you not think that a much stronger mandate would be if we spent this money on restoring an independent border guard, which, in the context of the ongoing immigration crisis, would perhaps be a prudent step, building a physical border barrier, or giving this money to our agriculture?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U136	The first request is that you do not confront the various costs. It's a very slippery path when you start to say, either teacher's salary or something else. These are not the choice points at this point. Don't do that! All these expenditures are necessary, but we can make investment expenditures within the limits of the existing budget. You asked whether we should invest in independent border guards. Our border guards are independent, they are part of a large European system, but the nature of the border guards is independent, just as the Tax and Customs Board is independent. Surely it cannot be claimed that he is not independent. When you were talking about strengthening the border, as I said in the introductory speech, I think we can be proud. Next year we will see significant investments at the eastern border, EUR 20 million, in order to strengthen, monitor and control the eastern border. These expenditures are made in the context of the 2016 budget and I do not think that this is a place of shame.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U137	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U138	Thank you. I have listened very carefully to the issues of the opposition and I must congratulate you. You have brought here a budget that the opposition at times likes even more than the coalition. It seems to me that this budget is indeed adopted by consensus, which is a historic step. However, when the draft budget was handed over, I had two sentences in my ear, which the opposition referred to as criticism. In my opinion, Mr Ammas, the honourable, said that it was a squealing budget, and the old people's people said that it was a ticking budget. You yourself have stood for the budget to provide maximum support for economic growth. Which, then, is it the maximum growth budget, given what our opportunities are, or the ticking and bending budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U139	Thank you. Good questioner! I'm also of the same opinion as you. The third reading will, of course, be a lesson of truth, but I also think that this budget is a good budget. This has indeed been demonstrated by the speeches of opposition representatives who have been forced on several occasions to state that the tax-free minimum is increasing, labour taxes are falling, subsidies are rising, money is being channelled to take various measures. In this sense, I believe that in December we will see a historic moment when the budget has very strong support. Perhaps with this budget, the consensus policy has also reached this Chamber. As far as the substance of your question is concerned, let us look at this budget. What do we see? It's a long way from ticking, and whatever the other word was, it's a whine. The measures taken to ensure that this budget not only improves the living conditions of the Estonian people but also makes the business environment more attractive can be seen. On the one hand, conservative, but on the other hand sustainable and growth-friendly, these are, I think, the keywords that characterise this budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U140	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U141	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I'll come back to something a little more earthly with my question. In recent weeks, the future of RMK, or the State Forest Management Centre, is responsible for the state forest, as well as for the nature trails (more than 500 kilometres in length). Let it be said that I think RMK is doing a very good and necessary job with our nature trails. This is also confirmed by the fact that about 2 million trips per year are made to nature trails. But my question concerns something else. RMK is a very important dividend payer for the state budget. The explanatory memorandum says that next year its dividend payments will increase by as much as EUR 5 million and exceed EUR 10 million per year. Do you agree that RMK's legal form is in no way an obstacle to the payment of the dividend to the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U142	Of course not. I agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U143	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U144	Thank you. I share that view with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U145	Thomas Vitsu, please! He's not here right now, so let's go to the next question. Second Thomas, Toomas Kivimägi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U146	Thank you. I'm adjusting. I don't have all the bills here so fast, but I'm guessing deflation isn't 0.5%, it's about 0.1%. Deflation is, but it's not that big. On the other hand, I will correct your claim that inflation is 2.8%. I'm guessing it's 2.0% to 2.2%, so I'd bring this level down a little bit, it seemed very high. But now to the substance. So-called recommended inflation in the economy is in the order of 2%. Several experts have said that. In Europe, too, the aim of additional money issuances is to achieve 2% of inflation in billions of euro each month. Next year, for a number of reasons, starting with the rise in excise duty and ending with an increase in the overall cost of living, we will be able to achieve a situation where we are most likely to see this 2% level. It is not the case that inflation is 10% in one month and is not at all in the rest of the months, it is still relatively evenly distributed over the year, all the more so as most tax policy changes come into force at the beginning of the year. Tobacco duty will rise on 1 June, but other fiscal policy changes will enter into force at the beginning of the year. We see a relatively steady rise. So this 2% inflation rate is very reasonable in nature, there is nothing deplorable about it. Rather, work is being done to achieve and maintain about this level of inflation in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U147	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In response to inquiries at the end of September, Minister of Education Jürgen Ligi said that he was disappointed in the budget. However, he could not say anything about the level of the teachers' minimum wage. Perhaps today, when we are discussing the state budget in a large Chamber, the Minister of Finance will be able to answer the question that my colleague Märt Sults has asked earlier, but to which he has not received an answer. Which teachers' minimum wage has been taken into account when preparing the 2016 state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U148	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. The forecast accompanying the budget states that the inflation rate for 2016 is 2.8. Right now, we have deflation at 0.5%. How and at what point do you expect deflation to turn into inflation? If this happens in the middle of the year, does this mean that in the second half of the year we have to expect an inflation of about 5%?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U149	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U150	Thank you, manager. Minister of Finance! In my opinion, the increase in revenue from the budget is not realistic. The Board has also drawn attention to this. For example, I do not believe that there will be an additional EUR 55 million in fuel excise duties next year. The figure for industrial production has become worse and worse for us. Industrial production decreased by 3% in August, with the decline starting in April and increasing. According to Eurostat, our industrial production fell by 5.9% in July, being clearly among the poorest in Europe. For example, the volume of industrial production increased by 5.9% in Lithuania and by 8.3% in Latvia. The economic index that assesses the overall situation is also among the lowest in Europe, and only Finland, Luxembourg and Greece are behind us. In this light, can you say that the budget forecast is realistic?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U151	Thank you, good questioner! The temptation is to answer you that it is, because it was a question of whether or not. But I will add, as I said earlier in answering one question, that the forecast is realistic. Realism is precisely shown by the fact that our forecasting apparatus, which, after all, presented its understanding of 2016, which in turn provided the basis for budgeting, has been rather conservative. If we look at independent experts, as I said earlier, the IMF, the OECD, the European Commission, Eesti Pank and the fiscal council are independent, then they have said that next year's growth will be higher than that proposed by the Ministry of Finance. I dare assure you that, regardless of who is in the government and who is the Minister of Finance, this forecasting apparatus will continue to be independent in the future. I have no reason to doubt that, and neither do you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U152	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In reply to my first question, you rightly mentioned that budget resources are limited and it is necessary to think very well about where to invest and who is worth supporting and who is not. That is why I think it is reasonable to pay farmers the top-up so that this limit does not decrease further next year. It is clear that, for example, if an entrepreneur stops working on a dairy farm and starts growing grain, the labour needs will be reduced at least five times. You might think it's more effective, but it means unpaid taxes and unemployed people. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U154	Thank you. I agree that all sectors need additional financial support, all sectors. I agree that, if we could, we should channel more money into health care and agriculture. Believe me, the ambition of the sectoral ministers in the budget negotiations was very great, of course it was very great. We have taken a position just as I believe that you share this, too, that we cannot make daily expenses, especially fixed expenses, through borrowing. We must be conservative and be guided by what we think the revenue base will be next year, and on the basis of these revenues we can take decisions. Looking also at this particular sector, the agricultural sector, the question arises: if you have financial capacity, how can it be directed? I have said many times, and I repeat that, by the way, the European Commission has also said that the sector itself must look at this whole support mechanism together. If you look at the amounts allocated from the Estonian state budget, they will be allocated specifically to those sectors where the money is most needed at that moment. This is very important and it is being done. As you can see, and as I said before, pig farming and dairying are currently those sectors that are in the most difficult situation. We cannot ignore this and it has not been overlooked in the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U155	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U156	Thank you. Good minister! The transparency of the state budget has decreased from year to year. If the structure of the state budget was ever simple, logical and unambiguous, then today it is like mush and cabbages mixed with cash-based, accrual-based, activity-based and result-based accounting. This makes it impossible to compare the parts of the budget and shows different figures for the same subject and area and, if not desired, raises questions and doubts. Is that the goal of blinding and hiding something? It's been talked about for years, but it's only gotten worse. Do you not think it is time to return to a transparent state budget and good accounting practices?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U157	Thank you. I think that a budget that is understandable and transparent and consistent with good practice is of common interest to all of us. I think that's exactly where the state budget is headed right now. As I said earlier, in the near future, we will see a shift to an accruals budget. This is a step in the direction of understanding the real responsibilities that the Estonian state has in its different positions. You see, there has been another criticism of the budget explanatory statement. It's been said there's a lot of information. Like you said, you don't know where anything is anymore. There has also been a different criticism that there is little information, I would like a little more information to be even more thorough. I think there's a golden midway somewhere. The truth is, when we finally go to the so-called object level, it is possible to specifically ask the Minister for Industry what object and what amount. Part of the object level already exists in the explanatory memorandum. If you find that there is an object level in some places, in some places, I agree with that criticism. I'm sure it's worth keeping a more consistent line here. But I do not agree with you that the budget is becoming increasingly incomprehensible. I think it's the other way around. Work is being done to make the information pack budget much more comprehensive, understandable and systematic. Those years of work have been done for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U158	Minister, you have been answering questions for almost two and a half hours now. I'll give you a little breather.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U159	Don't!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U160	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! You have just answered questions about pensions. In your introductory speech, you also said exactly that pensions would grow, the future would be bright, etc. I can't let it go again. However, some time ago, you opened up a mandatory pension fund to investments and made the pension fund manager responsible, not the ministry or the state. The administrator will be responsible if anything goes wrong. Is the mandatory pension fund insured against bankruptcy? If so, which bank? Or maybe it's still going to be insured, you know?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U161	Thank you. I think, in the interests of the constructive nature of the debate, I would remain in the budgetary context today. I guess I've been broadening these borders myself a little, out of the budgetary framework. I am really asking the questioner for an apology, but I would not like to go into an in-depth analysis of which banks have which depositaries, how to deal with them, etc. After all, we held this debate in part when the draft law on this subject was under discussion. However, I felt that there was skepticism and a slight irony in your question. Maybe it's not true, but that's what I thought. I do not think that the Estonian state should be the investor of Estonian pension money. I hope I understand correctly the context of your question that there are some other pension funds here. I think that the Estonian person has, as we talked during this debate, the possibility of taking a decision on the pension fund he wants, the level of risk he wants and everything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U162	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U163	Thank you. The Minister of Education and Research has considered that this order of magnitude could be EUR 990, namely EUR 993. That's the amount of money that's gone through. I think that during the budgetary procedure, as I stated to Mr Sults, it will certainly be clear that the final amount of resources will be allocated to this sector, which concerns education and, above all, teachers. Certainly, the Minister for Education and Research, looking at the volume of funds to be channelled into the field, will finally be able to say whether this amount is real or whether it will be smaller or even higher. But as an indication, it has been said about this amount. The budgetary procedure is, of course, currently underway. At third reading, when the budget is adopted, the characteristics are already known in detail. But this is the order of magnitude we can talk about today. So the pay of teachers is clearly increasing, as has been said in the past.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U164	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U165	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! The number of ministries is reduced by the number of employees who get paid from there. Are various offices involved in this event, such as the Office of the President of the Republic and the State Chancellery?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U166	I'm sorry, I didn't understand that question. Whether you're raising your salary or... Please repeat what offices are involved in, can I ask you? I'd love to answer, but I didn't understand the question. [[Interjection.]] Was this question about the reduction in the number of employees? If you are asking in the context of a reduction in the number of employees, then, in fact, the first estimate has been made. I would point out that these are indications of the proportions in which one or the other ministry or constitutional institution could reduce its staff. It has taken into account a number of reasons, it is not a pure arithmetic sequence that a certain percentage of the working age population has been transferred to a particular post of staff. It has also taken as a basis the activities of previous years. I would point out, for example, that the Ministry of the Interior has already implemented very large structural reforms. Therefore, the expectation that the number of employees will be reduced next year is much lower, as there has already been a great deal of work done there. Yes, basically, constitutional institutions could also participate in this programme. We believe that local authorities could also participate in this programme, but local authorities have autonomy. I think that from the tendency that the working age population will decrease and age, even local authorities will not be left untouched. But of course, local governments have the right to self-determination.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U167	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. On page 178, of the explanatory memorandum to the State Budget Act, I found a list of institutions entitled to use financial leases. Am I right to understand that, after several years, the police and border guards will finally get what they want, and instead of using a financial lease, they will be able to make substantial savings? Why did it take so long? What was the basis for this list of institutions, or why should the effective use of money be limited to a list? What is the justification for wasting money in other institutions if they are obliged to use only operating leases?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The Committee on Finance met with the Minister for Rural Affairs with such a positive fact that next year the utilised agricultural area is planned to grow by 10000 hectares and that the area of organic and semi-natural land is also grown. In a situation where the global trend is that agricultural land is declining, it is very positive. It was particularly welcome to hear that the area of agricultural land is to be grown to a million hectares. It is now claimed to be 930000 to 940000 hectares. I don't have a question. I just wanted to say that it's a nice thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I actually have a very serious problem or hesitation. Do I stress that the share of investment in the state budget for 2016 is sufficient? I'm not talking about the absolute value, I'm talking about the proportion. It is not the case that we live on tomorrow's account and today use more than that in proportion to current expenditure? Above all, I am thinking of the investments we make on our own revenues, not on external aid. This concern is driven by the fact that we all know how important investments are in improving the safety of people in the coming years, both in Tallinn and in Tallinn. We also know that there are no current sources of cover for these investments. Is the proportion of investments proportionate or should it be significantly higher?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U171	Thank you. That's a good question. If there was money, it would be more for investment. I think there are different objects, the infrastructure to which the money should be directed, yes and yes. Believe me, even during the budget negotiations, the wishes and requests of the ministers in the field were much greater than the budgetary opportunities, much greater, I say frankly. Of course, the government must also make political decisions within the existing budget, given our capacity and our possibilities, and decide where to direct the money specifically. If you ask if anyone is against making some infrastructure objects quickly in one year (I don't know, I would like to say the Tallinn highway, but perhaps you should say the Tallinn highway) I think no one is against it. Firstly, for this example, the roads would be quick to get in order, and secondly, the available funds, which will be channelled to infrastructure objects, will also immediately generate tax revenue, giving additional work to entrepreneurs in Estonia. It's all clearly a positive side. I do not think that we need to be ashamed of the total volume of investment. But if you're asking if it could be bigger, I'm saying that if there were any options, then, yes, of course it could be bigger. We're just keeping a clear balance. Juhan Parts also said, when he was a minister, that money should be channelled more strongly into infrastructure projects. I think Juhan Parts was right. That's what we have to do, put extra money in there. I think his understanding was very correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U172	Thank you. Does Juhan Parts have a line because his name was mentioned? Please hand over the microphone to Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U173	How long can I tell you? A minute? I really want to support Toomas Kivimägi. Perhaps we should discuss in the coalition that we should speed up the pace of the construction of the Tallinn-Pärnu and Tallinn-Tartu highway. It is indirectly linked to this budget. I don't think even the opposition is against it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U174	Thank you. Let's get on with the questions. Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U175	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I come to a specific point in the coalition agreement, which talks about free circles of interest. The coalition was designed to develop a system so that parents could put their children in one free circle of interest. What amount represents this in the budget for the coming year, and what line is that amount on?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U176	Thank you. We are working to ensure that in future circles of interest can be financed separately from the state budget. Let us be honest, however, the coalition agreement has been made for four years, but we are only the first year. We want to do a lot of good in four years. Give us time and give us a chance! Believe me, in four years we will be able to do a great deal and we will be able to answer your question. I hope so.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U177	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U178	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. My question is about Estonian National Broadcasting. Estonian Public Broadcasting is included in the state budget only with ETV+ operating grant, which has an increase of 6.6%. However, there is nothing about the increase in operating support for Estonian National Broadcasting. This slow budget growth in recent years is, I would say, facing the major problems of one of the country's most reliable media channels. Why has the ERR budget received so little attention and support?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U179	Thank you. I wouldn't say that little attention has been paid to the ERR, I would say the opposite. Both the Government of the Republic and the Coalition, which bear the main responsibility in the context of the adoption of this budget, have made and are making efforts to ensure that the ERR budget is sustainable. One example is that the 3% cut, which is mandatory for all bodies and agencies operating in different sectors, does not apply to the ERR. ERR does not need to make a 3% cut in 2016, with 627 employees in the ERR, 45 of which are in real estate management, 326 are not involved in creative activities and there are 25 other people in the administrative unit. No problem! There's no need for a fly. I think that is the first thing that gives a clear signal that nothing will be taken away from it by further cutting management costs. ERR also has its own revenues. In 2014, there were 1.8 million euros, with no own revenue in many other places. If we look at the state support in the next year, 2016, the ERR will have almost EUR 30 million, EUR 29,9 million. It certainly cannot be said that the ERR has not been paid attention. I'd rather be positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U180	Einar Vallbaum, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U181	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! I've been watching and listening to this whole day about what kind of power the budget is going to be, it's going to be okay. But beyond this house, there are such thoughts that entrepreneurs are not doing so well. Many entrepreneurs want to switch to a working week already on Thursday, while exports have decreased for both food and log house producers. Are we still going to come up with this budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U182	Thank you. We're coming out.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U183	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. It's almost two o'clock in the morning. We're running out of time for today's trial. I am sorry, Mr Mailis Reps! Tomorrow is the opportunity to ask a question again, and we will then pick up where we left off today. I would like to thank all my fellow Members for a thorough and constructive debate. Good work in committees! The trial is closed for today. Closure of the sitting at 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U184	All the changes that are being discussed in the government have finally been agreed, and if Urve Palo said so, there is certainly no reason to doubt it. The rental housing program goes on. If you consult with the new minister, I think you will get a full overview of what the time horizon is and how concrete implementation of this programme will be seen in the near future. I think it would make sense to go over this issue with the Minister for Industry and review the entire horizon. Of course, the question arises as to what effect and what thoughts the rental housing program brings, whether it really needs to be done and to what extent it should be done. But I'd put that debate aside right now. I'm sure the Minister of Economic Affairs will tell you about the time and financial horizon, such a cross-use horizon when you address him.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U185	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U186	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. From 1 January, the increase in excise duties on fuel shall take effect. The Defence Forces are known to have an extremely large fleet of machinery, which is, unfortunately, extremely thirsty. Have you calculated how much of our defense budget will eat up the increase in fuel excise duty? The same question applies to the Police and Border Guard Board, the Rescue Board and other such institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U187	Thank you. A well-defined question, well-defined figures. These calculations are all there. To save everyone else's time, I can answer you more specifically after writing. These data have been calculated for all ministries in relation to the increase in fuel excise duty. Of course, the Ministry of the Interior, as you said yourself, is one of the highest cost ministries, because there is just a bigger fleet. But the same question arises as to how this increase in excise duty is passed on to, for example, public transport and subsidies there. Similarly, it is possible to calculate what it means in its nature to public transport when the price of fuel increases. These data are all available and we can pass on to you relatively exactly one or the other Ministry's cost level after the price of a specific fuel. But I want to say that we have not only reviewed labour costs, but we will also review the management costs for next year. We have taken the view that management costs must be reduced next year. So here it is up to ministers to look constructively at their own budget to manage more efficiently with the money available.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U188	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U189	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! How do you explain the increase in the costs of the State Chancellery in the budget from EUR 10.4 million to EUR 18.8 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U190	Thank you. Of course, I will explain if a member of the Riigikogu asks how else! Such an increase in costs over a year may seem surprising and the question arises as to what that means in its nature. But the State Chancellery is a structural unit or a place where certain work and measures are concentrated that will help us prepare for the near future. What do I mean by that? First, preparing for the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia. The State Chancellery is the unit that coordinates it centrally. Of course, it is also his task to plan the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. But for the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, next year the state budget will have a size of 5.4 million euros. This is part of a much larger overall project. Moreover, I will explain that Members have more information. Today it is very clear why EUR 5.4 million has been foreseen in the context of the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia: film projects, documentaries, television projects in the size range of 3.4 million euros; the project "Every child has its own pill" EUR 250,000; the public space project All these projects take place in the context of celebrating the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia. This concept has been accepted and reflected in the understanding that the country's birthday is the birthday of the entire nation. Everyone is welcome to join in. But you noticed that the costs would increase from 10.4 million to 18.8 million, or 8 million and more. What else is there? In addition, the costs of the State Chancellery include those related to the Presidency of the European Union. As we know, in 2018 Estonia will be the Presidency of the European Union and an additional 5.4 million euros will already be allocated to the State Chancellery for preparation. These sums will also increase as the Presidency comes closer. This money goes to working groups, to build a coordination system, etc. Once again, it is possible to get a very precise overview of the resources that will be devoted to preparing the Presidency of the European Union. The total of these two amounts, if you note, is in the order of EUR 10.8 million. That is why the budget of the State Chancellery has grown exponentially in absolute numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U191	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U192	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The budget shows a significant reduction of 22.4% in expenditure for winter navigation, i.e. icebreaking or planned. What weather forecast do I understand is that the government expects a soft winter to come right now? Are these traditional weather forecasting methods, or do you predict from a pig's spleen that there will be a soft winter? How did this come about in the $22.4 budget? It's going down.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U193	Thank you. No, the pig spleen has not, at least so far, received any attention from the government in making future forecasts and maybe in the future. Past forecasts have been taken as a basis, mainly what temperatures have been and what future trends are. There are specialists who make these predictions. We have also booked additional funds of EUR 1 million from the reserve of the Government of the Republic. True, winter can be much colder and there may be problems in buying and offering services. There's extra money in the reserve for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U194	Einar Vallbaum, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U195	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I have a question for you in the field of education. As chairman of the Committee on Culture, I am quite concerned about the scientific budget. The financing of UCITS will fall significantly from next year and the public contribution has not increased since 2008. Oki's report says that in three years, research funding should increase by EUR 30 million. What solution do you see in this situation? What are your thoughts?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U196	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Fuel excise has caused problems. But if we raise excise duties on fuel and that is why the prices are going up, the fares are going up, then we're taking money out of people's pockets with our other hands. There's still little money allocated to the roads, that money should come from fuel excise. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U197	Thank you. You see, I brought this up myself at some point. I was surprised that so far no one had ever addressed this subject. I think that the increase in excise duties on fuel next year will certainly have an impact on the increase in the cost of the service. This effect is, of course, not proportional, since the increase in excise duties on fuel reflected in the price of a particular ticket or service is considerably lower in nature. In short, this impact is not proportionate. But I think that there will be two options in the future that also need to be taken into account in the budget negotiations: whether additional money will be allocated to increase subsidies or whether there will be a specific increase in ticket prices. These are usually the two options.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U198	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U199	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Finance! My question is to you as former Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Now, as Minister of Finance, your work on the budget is starting to come to an end, and questions and answers have been discussed for quite a while in this Chamber. Do you have any suggestions for the Riigikogu? Is there anything left to the heart of the current procedure in the government and you know what we in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and also in the large Chamber could still improve the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U200	Thank you, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. This is our joint budget, isn't it? It is a common budget for all of us, no matter which party one person or another is in. I think that our common goal in the light of this budget should be for the economy to grow in Estonia, the economic environment to be good and the people to feel that they want to be here, and all the positive that already exists in this budget to be transferred to the real economy. Of course, we are dealing with a parliamentary state; it is Parliament that finally adopts the budget and makes that decision. The government has only put forward a primary goal, a basic understanding of what this could look like. As I recall, there has not yet been any budget that, at the end of the Riigikogu procedure, would be exactly the same volume and with the same records as it was at the time of submission. Parliament has always worked to further improve the budget, to make it even more precise, to make more sense. I would certainly like to wish both the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Monetary Affairs and, of course, the whole Parliament every success in making the budget even better.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U201	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U202	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, thank you very much. For three hours, you've answered questions very convincingly and nicely here. But since you stand almost for the last time in dealing with this budget here before us, it is very good to ask you the following questions, both Mr Ammas and Mr Helme. By how many million will our next draft budget for 2016 be positive or negative in nominal and structural terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U203	Thanks! As always, different concepts are confusing. We talked about this earlier in the debate. There is a government budget balance, then there is the state budget itself and social security funds, as well as local governments. The general government balance consists of the accruals and revenues of the state budget, municipalities, social security funds, foundations, public institutions and certain companies in the state, and the difference between them. This is the position of the general government as a whole. The nominal position is 0.1% minus, in the order of 26 million euros, when we talk in monetary terms, and the structural position is 0.6% plus. Anyone can calculate what financial means to keep it structurally positive by 0.6%. Believe me, a lot of politicians may have an interest, if you say so, in this structural position. The easiest way would be to reduce the ambition of structural positions. In the spring, the government decided that such a position should be maintained. We have emphasised that. Really, it's an ambitious plan. When drawing up the budget, I really want to thank all the ministers in the field, everyone understood that the agreements that were signed in spring should be respected, setting out the country's four-year budget strategy, not only looking at 2016 but also 2017, 2018 and 2019. In essence, this ambitious plan was maintained also in the context of the state budget negotiations in the autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U204	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U205	Thank you. Good Minister of Finance! In this Chamber today, the view has repeatedly been expressed that the excise duty on motor fuel is growing very rapidly, but not enough resources are allocated to maintain roads. At the same time, over the years, there has been such an indicator that 75% of the amount of excise duty on motor fuel could be spent on road maintenance. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure has confirmed that this year this percentage will be higher than 75. How do you think that comparison of numbers still feels? Is it so bad that the excise duty on fuel keeps growing, but it's like nothing's going on the roads?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U206	Thank you. I'm going through this block fast. The EFSF is closed today in its nature. The ESM is open, but the EFSF is closed, and no more money will be released. Estonia participates in EFSF through guarantees, just like all other countries. The total amount of the guarantees is 483 million euros, plus interest of EUR 538 million. I'm talking about orders of magnitude. With the help of these guarantees, the EFSF has mobilised funds that have gone to Greece, Portugal and Ireland. Estonia has contributed EUR 48000 to the symbolic capital of the EFSF. Everything else is on the level of guarantees. There is another situation in the ESM, there are real capital contributions. Estonia has made several instalments on the basis of its capital key, which is 0,186% and has a financial value of EUR 148,8 million. This payment has been made in full to the ESM. As you rightly pointed out, it will also give rise to our obligations to raise capital if the ESM needs it in the future in order to state the full capital coverage. But, as I said, our participation in the ESM is 0.186%, which currently amounts to EUR 148.8 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U207	George Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U208	Thank you. I don't know if you listened to my speech. The Committee on Finance has not yet met with the Minister for Education and Science. We'll do it next week. I know the Minister of Education has been to the Committee on Culture, but he has not been to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Before we have been able to speak directly with the Minister for Education and Research about the priorities and possible bottlenecks in the budget for next year, I would not be talking about any positions on this issue. The Committee on Monetary Affairs has clearly not formed any positions here either.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U209	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U210	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! You have certainly already discussed the future Estonian Presidency in the Commission. If you look at the 2016 state budget, there is a programme for the Presidency, which is set at 6.75 million euros. At the same time, it is clear that the Chancellery of the Riigikogu also has costs in this respect. We may begin to plan that certain steps need to be taken. Have you discussed how much money the Chancellery of the Riigikogu should increase in order to prepare for the Presidency? At the moment, no such increase is foreseen.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U211	The Ministry of Finance negotiates the budget with the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, not with the Committee on Finance. The Finance Committee is not known to make the budget of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. I know that, in order to prepare the Presidency, it is planned to be EUR 20 or EUR 30 million each year for three years. The contribution of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu is important and I believe that, given these orders of magnitude, it will not be unfunded. I do not know exactly what you are referring to and what, say, action you will see in charge of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, for which money should be allocated to them. If you specify, we can discuss it in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and I believe it will also be with the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U212	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U213	Thank you. Good waitress! I have heard that the Minister for Education and Science has not yet been to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I wanted to know what your own position was on this matter. However, in the years of the recession, the government aimed to keep research focused and found it very important for the country to remain in international competition. I will specify my question. What is your own position or attitude on the need for research? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U214	Thank you. I think research has a very important role to play. It is probably difficult to find a member of the Riigikogu who would say otherwise. What the state can fund these studies, I am not ready to say here at the moment. I would certainly like to consult with the Minister of Education and Research. If there are proposals that we could reallocate or increase the amount within the programme, we will certainly discuss them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U215	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U216	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You specifically talked about the amount of funds available to bring refugees here. But my question isn't from this neighborhood, it's from another neighborhood. Does the budget also provide funds for the reintegration of Estonians into Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U217	Thank you. Of course. After all, there have been great appeals, and the President has done so too. 'Talents home! ' and all the activities we are doing today are reflected in the budget. We want to make Estonia more attractive and not only in the context of business, but also in the context of everyday living. These are the steps that always call people back. If it is good to live in a country, if wage increases, infrastructure improves, life is secure, all of this will certainly increase people's homelands and their return from abroad as well. I think that this budget will certainly serve this purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U218	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U219	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Finance! You mentioned in your speech that not all taxes can be reduced. I agree with you basically. In answering my previous question, you also found that we needed to make different tax policy decisions. This means that certain taxes must inevitably be increased. I'm asking you what kind of taxes the government plans to raise in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U220	Thank you. We went through this before we went on our summer vacation when we discussed specific drafts. There are real budgetary reflections on this. The government has said that its aim is to reduce labour taxes and tax neutrality by raising taxes related to vices, consumption and pollution. This is the tax-ideological environment. The question is whether you like it or not. Perhaps you want to increase labour taxes and reduce consumption taxes, for example. That's some other political logic. The current logic is that labour taxes are falling, which means that more money is left to the person. If a person is left with more money, he will be able to use that money in the light of his own knowledge. This is current ideology. If he were to be taken away from more money by raising taxes on labour, then it would be wise for the country to tell us where it is right to direct the money. If, because of this ideology, we look at what changes are coming up next year, then, true story, you will see that next year the income tax-free minimum for all working people will increase from EUR 154 to EUR 170. This is a very expensive measure. In addition, we have thought separately about people who receive low wages. They will be able to recover all the income tax paid by means of a tax refund for low-paid persons. And what I said earlier was that we keep the average pension exempt from income tax. These are certainly important directions. In 2017 and 2018 we will also see a reduction in social tax and, of course, a further increase in the tax-free minimum. By 2019, the tax-free minimum is expected to have increased from EUR 154 to EUR 205. This is a very expensive measure! Now you might ask how it's compensated, because it all costs money. The Minister of Finance himself also says that this is an expensive measure if people are left with more money and lower labour taxes. As I said, consumption, vices and the environment. Next year, excise duty on tobacco will rise by 8%, excise duty on fuel will rise, excise duty on alcohol will increase. These increases give us the opportunity to reduce taxes on labour.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U221	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U222	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The National Audit Office wanted EUR 250000 for audit in the field of defence and internal security, but for some reason the government did not consider it necessary to allocate this money from the budget. Is and how the prudent use of public money ensured in these areas, and do you think that the existing measures are sufficient?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U223	Thank you. It's good to see you. I didn't notice you in the hall. You asked about the National Audit Office. I answered one question earlier that we are now assuming that there is a capacity to carry out audits. The competence of the people working at the National Audit Office is extremely high, and I stress once again that it is extremely high. It's very positive. If you ask whether the National Audit Office should be involved in a sector and if it would give an additional effect, if you put more money, then I think that adding money in each sector will give an additional effect. Every sector! In short, if we make the road to Tallinn faster, it will also give us some automatic regional effect, putting money in each sector or measure will give us an effect. If you ask whether the use of funds in one ministry or another is legitimate, verifiable and correct, I certainly have no reason to think otherwise. But different control bodies, mainly the National Audit Office, exist to understand whether the use of money by one ministry or another meets the objectives.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U224	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U225	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I'm gonna ask you about another point in your coalition agreement. What has become of the fine idea of Urve Palo, Minister of Ex-Business, to build a state housing fund? He also came here to talk about this in briefing and claimed that this programme was being developed and that money was due for next year. So what is this sum, and, again, what line can we see it on?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U226	Thank you. I think it's a good question in the final phase of the debate to make this side work too, if you could say so. In the past, when the debate was about financing local roads, I would like to remind you of the fact that I am about to reach the general level, one of the questioners criticised the fact that there is no additional resources from the state budget for local roads. I replied that, on the contrary, an additional EUR 5 million would be allocated, compared to the existing reference year, in 2015, with a total of almost EUR 30 million. This is one of the highest levels at all when it comes to the money allocated to local roads from the state budget over the years. You asked me about that 75% claim. It expired in 2015. During this procedure, this was practiced because it gives the budget greater flexibility to finance roads. The aim was not to reduce the money allocated to the sector, in particular to roads, but rather to maintain flexibility. Some year may require more investment in roads and some year less, depending on projects. What is the current situation? The situation is this: I will be honest with you that the funds that have been allocated to the roads are currently not available. That's where your criticism lies. In 2013, 13,7 million were allocated for the next year; in 2014 21.7 million were allocated for the next year. Today we are in a situation where, in 2016, more than 75% of next year's fuel excise duties are already in the budget. This is the situation in 2016, and I will let you all know.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U227	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U228	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister for Finance, I, too, thank you for your clear messages and your constructive answers. At the same time, we know that the year 2016 will be over quite quickly and that we are facing difficult problems with several investments, we can mention the same much-spoken construction of Rail Baltic. Our 6% debt cannot possibly remain at this level for a very long time. What is your forecast when, in this Chamber, we are very seriously discussing an increase in the debt burden precisely with the aim of actually investing in agreed activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U229	Thank you. I'm gonna stop at debt. Well, the trend is rather different right now. The fact that our GDP is increasing, and if GDP is increasing, certainly also plays a role in this, is simply a reduction in the percentage of the existing debt burden. This is positive and in the interest of all of us, that GDP, or gross domestic product, is increasing. Once we stop at our commitments, we can say that we are clearly the least indebted country in Europe at all, that our debt burden is the lowest percentage of GDP, less than 10%, and that it will decrease further in the coming years. This, in turn, gives almost a quarter of it to participate in the EFSF, which is automatically included in our debt ratio in order to keep the picture correct. If you take it off, we can figure out what our real financial position is. If the point of the question was about when there could be a debate in the future, let's say, about making such big decisions and, consequently, about opening up new paradigms, then this is a place for all of us to have a joint debate. I do not dare say any dates to you, but I think this is our joint discussion place when we are prepared to review the volume of investments and perhaps at some point to start making even stronger investments. In this case, we must consider that this may also mean that our costs in the short term exceed revenues. A large majority of Parliament must be prepared for this. I'm ready to take part in this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U230	Maire Aunaste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U231	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Local newspapers have a habit of asking very simple but very difficult questions. Today is the day when the South Estonian newspaper asks such a question: 'Does the Estonian state really have fingers so far in the bottom of the wallet that taxes need to be raised? " Sven, tell me what would be the correct answer to that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U232	Thank you. As I have said before, we need to look at the structure of taxes. Certainly, this journalist should also be told to look at the tax structure for the coming years. We see an increase in excise duty on alcohol and excise duty on tobacco, really, but labour taxes are falling. Tell this journalist that your understanding is that labour taxes must fall and people must have more money and when a person has more money, he is so smart that he can tell you what he wants to do with it. We are moving in the direction of reducing labour taxes. Looking at the 2016 budget, let alone the next budgets, I believe that we will meet this objective. Tell the journalist that taxes on consumption, vices and pollution will rise in the future, but labour taxes will fall.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U233	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U234	Thank you, Honourable Vice Speaker. Good minister! Not only does tobacco and alcohol cost fuel, but the price of the room is also rising. But speaking of the Estonian debt burden, which is about 6%, I will immediately take the word for the tail. Participation in the EFSF represents a very large part of this burden. Can you quickly explain whether you meant EFSF with the ESM, where we have guaranteed EUR 1.3 billion, and how much of this 6% is the guarantee of other countries' debts in EFSF and ESM?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U235	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, You have now been before the Riigikogu for three hours and 34 minutes, it is admirable and powerful. I looked at next year's budget and background and listened to what international organisations say that Estonia is the most competitive country in the world, and I listened to you say that the budget is balanced, pensions are rising, internal security is improving, and regional development is only showing positive signs. I am rather concerned that, if we are discussing the 2017 budget next year, whether you personally believe there is anything else to be done or whether you think, in principle, that this work will now be done. Are there any other objectives to be achieved in the budget, let us say, in 2017, when looking at a slightly more distant perspective?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U236	Thank you, good questioner! Yes, I remember the city of Tallinn. When it's done, Ülemiste's old man will be here. Sometimes he even went somewhere, I remember, showing himself. I can tell you that in the country we're such a Ülemiste old man, whether he's porolone or not, he can't see. There is still much to do and believe me, not only in 2017 but also in all subsequent years. It is certainly worth taking a look at the country's four-year budget strategy, which was adopted in spring, for a moment during the budgetary procedure. It gives you the direction they want to move to. Of course, this strategy will be updated every spring, next spring we will be talking about the years from 2016 to 2020 already. But there's a lot to do. We hope that the measures and actions that we want to implement next year will contribute to the understanding that the economy is growing. As the economy grows, it produces added value. If added value is to be achieved, it is possible to carry out a wide range of decisions with this growth. This work will continue for the years to come, not just by 2016.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U237	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U238	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm asking about the national broadcasting budget. As is well known, national broadcasting is an independent television pursuant to the law, and none of the broadcasting channels is state television. I've heard several cabinet ministers talk about how they've put labels on the money they give to national broadcasting. EUR 2.5 million has been allocated to ETV+, EUR 110000 has been allocated to enable ETV+ to go to free distribution, etc. Can we really talk about independent television when the cabinet puts a label on every amount that is allocated to broadcasting that can be used for that money? Or could it be, however, as the law states, that it is the National Broadcasting Council who is in charge of and command of the broadcasting budget? How do you see this as a minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U239	Thank you. I am convinced that national broadcasting is independent. I have no reason to think otherwise. I see that the ERR will receive at least EUR 0.8 million in addition to the basic budget next year. I said 'at least' because the budgetary procedure in Parliament is just beginning. An additional EUR 0.1 million will be allocated next year for the dissemination of ETV+ on the free market and EUR 0.3 million will be allocated for the lease payments of ETV+ beyond the basic level and EUR 0.4 million will be allocated for the subtitling of ETV+ programmes. These requests have come from the ERR itself. The management of the ERR has considered it necessary to state that they consider such expenditure and expenditure to be necessary for the ERR. It is certainly neither the Minister of Finance nor the Prime Minister's personal concern here, but the proposals have come from the ERR itself. If the Council finds at its meetings that this money should be directed differently, it has the power to do so. After all, he will finally put together the annual budget and hold discussions on the subject. It has now been found that although the management of the ERR has said that they are in favour of being free-to-air, the discussion place is whether or not this programme should be free-to-air. The Government of the Republic has found that it is very reasonable if it were to be free-to-air and everyone could see it. These are political decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U240	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U241	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I, too, thank you for these long and meaningful answers. But unfortunately, they have not always been quite exhaustive. Indeed, we have repeatedly raised the question of where growth comes from. Your answer is basically that experts say it's coming. We would have liked to hear more reasons, you could have taken on the role of representing political experts and more meaningfully answered these questions. However, I found different opinions on the basis of a statement by the Board of Budgets, in which Raul Eamets expressed doubts about the VAT and corporate tax revenues. I hope these experts have not been selective. However, I will finish by asking this question: what do the forecasts for development in the nearest reference countries, such as Finland, Sweden and Russia, say? What is the environment like?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U242	Thank you. Good question. I say once again that I think we need to pay attention to what is really going to be, as you said, the fate of the reference countries, the neighbouring countries, our neighbours, our main export partners. Estonia is a small and dynamic country; we are an open economy. The changes that are taking place with our neighbours, unfortunately, we want or do not want to, will immediately give some kind of impulse to our economy, whether negative or positive. Let's look at the current situation. As I described in my introduction, the Russian economy has, in essence, suffered a decline of 4.5%. Sweden is, of course, in very good shape. Finland has had clearly negative economic growth in the past. Let's see what's going on. Finland is one of our main partners. We believe that the decisions of the new Finnish government will lead to the Finnish economy starting to grow again. We see decisions that underpin Finland's economic growth. This, in turn, will contribute to increasing our export capacity. Do not question the analysis of other countries; there is no reason to do so. In Estonia, we do not rely solely on analyses. Estonia can contribute to economic growth by increasing its competitiveness through fiscal policy and legislation. This, notice, has also been done by the government, both internally, for example, by losing the competitive advantages that somebody might have had because of some non-payment of taxes, but also by raising export potential.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U243	Thank you, Minister of Finance. No further questions for you. I thank you for your long and thorough answers to the questions of members of the Riigikogu. Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U244	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance started to process the draft state budget for 2016 at the meeting of the Commission on 1 October, when Minister of Finance Sven Sester presented the budget's objectives and priorities and the evolution of revenue and expenditure. I'm going over the basic facts for a little rejuvenation. Although the debate with the Minister for Finance for almost four hours was meaningful, I will talk briefly about the substance of the budget as well. The budget for next year will clearly support economic growth and strengthen national defence and social responsibility. The cost is EUR 8.9 billion, which is almost EUR 360 million more than this year. As the Minister said, the structural surplus is planned at 0.6% and nominal at 0.1% of GDP. Tax policy is based on the principle of shifting the tax burden from labour taxes to consumption more. Estonia will continue with a simple and uniform tax policy. As proof of the success of this course, the assessment of the US Tax Foundation, published last week, that Estonia's tax system is the most competitive in the world for the second year in a row, followed by New Zealand and Switzerland. The share of the overall tax burden in GDP remains at the same level, or 33%. In order to promote growth, government investment will be of key importance next year and will increase to 480 million euros, with an increase of 22,5%. The construction and reconstruction of roads will receive EUR 307 million, which is 21 million more than this year. The state contributes not only to asphalt but also to people. The long-term objective is to increase teachers' salaries to 120% of the Estonian average and the first steps in this direction will be taken in the budget for next year. Growth is supported by a reduction in the tax burden on labour. In the coming years, the social tax rate will fall; next year, the tax-free income will increase from EUR 154 to EUR 170. Work capacity reform is underway, leading in January 2016 to a greater choice of services for people with reduced working capacity and their potential employers. The state contributes more than 2% to the defence budget. To improve the livelihood of families with children and increase the birth rate, family benefits will increase by a total of €16.1 million next year and parental benefits by €10.5 million compared to this year. Support for the first and second children will increase from EUR 45 to EUR 50 from 1 January 2016, with support for the third and each subsequent child increasing to EUR 100. Pensions will rise by 5.7% next year. The average old-age pension rises to 396 euros per month, remaining exempt. It is also one of the important principles of the government that, despite the increase in the average pension, it will remain exempt from income tax in the coming years. Now I am talking about discussions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. On 21 September, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance presented at the meeting of the Commission an overview of the economic situation and the summer fiscal forecast, which in turn will be based on the state budget for the following year. Before today's first reading in the Riigikogu Hall, the Finance Committee has also met with the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Enterprise, the Minister of the Environment, the Minister of Culture, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, the Minister of Rural Affairs and the Minister of Justice, as well as the Minister of Social Protection. Yesterday there was a committee meeting with Margus Tsahkna, and today it is scheduled to meet Minister of Foreign Affairs Marina Kaljuranna. We will meet with the rest of the ministers in the next week, as soon as the first reading in the big hall is over. I will give a brief overview of the debates with the ministers. In many respects, I believe that this debate by the Commission was also carried into this Chamber today, as directed to a minister, but there was a very constructive debate with all ministers in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I must agree with the assertions that the representatives of the various political groups did not make very much criticism of the budget in the Committee on Monetary Affairs as well. Of course, they were talking about nuances, as usual, but in the big picture, I think, they're happy with the budget. But more specifically now. Finance Minister Sven Sester, as I said, met me in early October. Then the topic was wage growth in the public sector, its dynamics, wage growth in the field of internal security, teachers and cultural workers. It discussed how to overcome the so-called interim year of the European Union's financial perspective, where we are now. Agricultural subsidies have been the subject of many debates here today too. The Estonian state will pay farmers, with a budget of 7.6 million euros for this year as well as next year, in addition to the EUR 7.6 million of emergency aid paid by the European Union. The Minister of Finance and I also talked about pensions. The pension fund's deficit next year is EUR 452 million. Just as it was in previous years, so will the cash register in this and in the coming years. The missing money must simply be covered by other revenue. We also talked about road construction for quite a while with the Minister of Finance. Mr Pevkuri, Minister of the Interior, and I discussed the increase in the salaries of police and border guards, the restructuring of the Academy of Home Affairs, the programme of shrines, the investments of churches, the procurement of rescue equipment, the membership of international organisations, but also in quite detail the issue of refugees and the reception of refugees. Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir and I talked about the Estonian tourism sector and how entrepreneurs could better access foreign markets and participate in trade fairs. We talked about the creation of new tourist attractions in Estonia, Tallinn conference centre, but also about home support for families with children's wealth, which is also in the hands of this minister. Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants and I spoke about the quota auction, his ministry's IT procurement, the development of the land tax information system, RMK's dividend income and the future of RMK in general. This question was also under discussion here. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus is leaving the hall now, but first he asked the Minister of Finance about the future of RMK. That was the debate with Mr Pomerants in the Committee on Finance. During the meeting with Minister of Culture Indrek Saare, the questions raised by the members of the Commission mainly concerned additional requests that the government had rejected. The Minister of Culture explained this and the use of the income from the Gambling Tax Board, and he also spoke about the preservation of the temples, manor schools and cultural heritage. These were topics that we discussed with the Minister of Culture. We talked to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure about rail tariffs, freight transport by rail, public transport subsidies and investments in roads. The latter issue has been discussed at a number of meetings in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We also talked about liquid fuel reserves, state-owned companies' dividends and town centre planning. The main issue at the meeting with the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus, was, of course, the current crisis situation and the additional resources that the European Union and the Estonian state are channelling to the dairy and pig sectors and, in fact, the state has already invested money there this year with the government's decision. In addition, we talked about the Ministry's regional programmes, the measures of the Rural Promotion Foundation and also about the sale of Veterinarian and Food Administration cars, such details were discussed in the Commission. Minister of Justice Reinsalu gave an overview of changes in the human resources policy of his administration, the development of county court houses and new real estate investments. You have probably read that the purchase of the construction of the Tallinn prison has been completed and this construction should start next year. Similarly, the design of the Tallinn courthouse will begin next year. At yesterday's meeting with the Minister for Social Protection, Margus Tsahkna, we discussed the deficit of the pension fund, as well as the reduction of the number of employees in the administration of his ministry, as well as the information system of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the financing of women's shelters, the financing of aid for the disabled, the financing of the Office of the Commissioner for Equality, the topic of subsistence allowances and the reception of refugees. On the one hand, the Ministry of the Interior is responsible for the issue of refugees, headed by the Minister of the Interior, and on the other hand, the Ministry of Social Affairs is the first institution to receive refugees and, figuratively speaking, direct them to the right place so that their lives can be set on track as quickly and conveniently as possible. These were discussions with ministers. These discussions will continue in the Committee on Monetary Affairs today and also next week. The Commission proposed to send the draft State Budget Act 2016 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 20 October. Our proposal is to finish the first reading. The decision was consensual. The deadline for submitting amendments is 10 working days, or 5.15 p.m. on 3 November. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-20_U245	Thank you, dear waitress. You have at least one question. Laine Randjärv, please!
