ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the third working week of the IXth plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. It is not recommended to hand over any drafts or requests for information. Please, let's do the presence check! Seventy-seven members of the Riigikogu are currently registered as present. We're going to the agenda today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U2	First of all, the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union is the first reading of the draft 773. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U3	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U4	Wait a minute! Good hall, quiet, please! Please, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U5	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We have an important draft to discuss today, namely draft decision No 773. It is a decision of the Riigikogu that we propose to the Government of the Republic to develop and implement a system of guaranteeing maintenance payments from 1 January 2016, which ensures the timely receipt of child maintenance payments. The system must include the establishment of a national institution that pays the minimum child-raising allowance for the parent who is raising the child at the right time and requires the parent who has the obligation to pay the child. I hope that we will take this decision today. Perhaps this Riigikogu is the last major political decision of its composition in principle, because we have little time left to work. That is why I ask, even though the elections are at the door and you are all meeting with the people of Estonia, to this important topic in this Chamber today, we are going to take this item on the agenda and act on our conscience and help parents raising children alone, especially their children. First of all, this bill. According to the 2011 census, 55665 children, i.e. one in four children in Estonia, live in single-parent households with children under 18 years of age. Of these households, 92% are women who raise children and 8% are men. Knowing that 41% of single parent households live in relative poverty and 23% in absolute poverty is particularly important. Basically, over half of these children live below the poverty line by definition. The Green Paper of the Ministry of Social Affairs, which was presented yesterday at the public hearing of the Social Affairs Committee, provides the latest statistics on older households raising children alone. It turns out that the monthly income of one member of the household of parents raising a child on their own, which they have to cope with, is EUR 314. I make reference to the fact that, in a family where both parents exist, they have to cope with 422 euros. The difference is remarkable. In essence, this means that there is no guarantee of equal development opportunities for children in the families of parents raising children alone in Estonia. When we compare with all other social groups who are in a socially difficult situation, it is precisely the households of parents raising a child alone that are in the most difficult situation. This is confirmed by all kinds of research and statistics. For parents raising a child alone, there is one very big problem. The parent who does not raise children and has left the family for various reasons does not pay a living allowance. Although the maintenance allowance has even been paid out, through proceedings up to court decisions, for any reason, either personal or other, the parent does not fulfil his or her obligations, nor does he or she fulfil his or her legal obligation. This is very often due to the emotional condition of two grown - ups, but children who are not at all guilty of not getting along with each other are suffering. I will say this number again, perhaps some did not notice in this talk: in Estonia, one in four is a single parent's family. There's a total of 55665, that's a lot of kids. One of the effects of this bill is certainly to remove the obligation on the shoulders of a parent who is now raising a child alone to demand a living allowance and to chase and search for another parent who is not fulfilling his obligation. Although most of these requirements go to bailiffs, there are currently 9,000 people who owe children a living allowance. The amount owed is already more than EUR 10 million. It is money that actually belongs to children, precisely to ensure their development. On the website of the bailiffs and the House of Bankruptcy Administrators, there is a long list of people who avoid paying a living allowance. Right now, there's almost 700 names. I, too, have looked at this list, and I suggest you get acquainted with it. The analysis shows, not my analysis, but we have had very many meetings of the Social Committee on this subject, that not all these people are people who do not manage their lives, who do not work or who, for some other reason, do not have an income, but very many of them simply avoid the obligation to provide for their children. In 2007, when I began to deal with this issue, which has also reached this Riigikogu, the attitude of society, and also of some politicians, was, I must admit, maybe too old-fashioned or maybe stuck in the stains. It was thought that the state would not have to intervene in the activities and problems of our families. An ex - parent problem was found to be more a problem for their parents or even for the same parent himself. However, I am pleased that during these years, quite a number of non-profit organisations have been explaining in society. I have a feeling and actually a complete conviction: now Estonian society understands that these children, one child in four, are our own. And if we look at the problems of our population, we have few children, our children are not guaranteed development opportunities, it is precisely our social system and the whole reconstruction system of our country must come to the aid of families and, above all, of children. Our society is built on the principle of solidarity. During these years, there has been a sound, and perhaps there is the view in this Chamber today that why other honest taxpayers have to pay from their pockets a child's livelihood if it is actually paid by their parents, and that is not the honest use of public money. I recall what our country has been called into existence for at all. In this same principle of solidarity, we must help those members of society who are in a more difficult position, especially children. This is not a marginal problem. As I have already emphasised several times, one in four children in Estonia needs this support. One major factor in the creation of a national support fund is that parents and children suffer from domestic violence in a large number of families. Statistics also show that, to a large extent, they are women. Organisations involved in domestic violence in Estonia have pointed out that it is often the manipulation of the livelihood of the violent party that is the reason why women decide to continue to suffer domestic violence. They know that without a living allowance, they will not be able to guarantee normal conditions of development for their children compared to others. A maintenance fund would solve this problem, take the pressure off. Although this person, if he chooses to continue suffering domestic violence, thinks that he is doing the children a favor because he ensures that the so-called material base continues, he is actually harming himself. Moreover, he harms his children for life with psychological and perhaps physical trauma. There has also been much talk in this Chamber in recent years about the pay gap between men and women. There is a pay gap in Estonia. If we look at the population census bill, 92% of the families of parents raising children alone are women, i.e. 33408 are responsible for the household and the children are maintained by women, and 8% of single parents are men. In fact, the same pay gap puts the same older women raising a child on their own, who receive less pay, in an even more difficult situation. Finally, it is their children who are in an even more difficult situation. I will be brief as to how the National Maintenance Fund should work. On the one hand, the fund will provide the child with at least a minimum monthly allowance. On the other hand, the state takes this claim into its own hands and, by applying all means of leverage and coercion, demands that the parent evades the payment of a living allowance. There have been criticisms that why the state should create another institution in order to obtain a living payment, because there are court settlements, court-ordered claims for maintenance, which are handed down to bailiffs. In real life, as we can see from these figures, you don't get that living money. In essence, the parent raising a child alone, usually a woman, is still alone with this concern. In addition to all other problems, he must consider whether or not the allowance will be paid next month and look for his child's other parent and find out what he is doing. Perhaps he knows that the financial situation of the non-paymentee is excellent, but he simply fails to fulfil his obligation to the child. A public maintenance fund would take the burden off a parent raising a child alone and ensure that maintenance aid was paid monthly. At the same time, using the Fund, a person who does not fulfil his or her obligation can be paid a living allowance. Today's decision is not ready for a draft on how the National Maintenance Fund should work in detail. This is the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic that such a fund be set up by 1 January 2016. The issue of the Fund has been discussed for more than ten years. This topic has been analysed in isolation, its effects have been assessed. If we look at the current capacity of the Estonian state to gather information about its citizens, for example, the same Riigikogu has created a labour register, which contains an increasing number of data, where people work and what their incomes are. We still have records like this. I am sure that if the Government of the Republic is set up by the law of the Riigikogu and it will be managed by the Ministry of Finance, for example, who will also keep an eye on the fact that the fund will not work with too much of a disadvantage, then we will be able to actually get the money from the debtors. I will also say a few words about the political background. Before the elections, the tensions are certainly very high, and it is very easy for politicians to put away not the most polite words about other people and politicians. But I really hope that today's debate in this Chamber, after my speech, will not go towards one another to throw political mud at one another, for example, on the topic of why this fund has not been done so far or who and how it feels about the fund being created. Indeed, the Fatherland and Res Publica Union have already signed up for this programme in 2007, but we have coalition governments, and it was not yet mature enough for us to be able to put it into the treaty. Similarly, a draft decision of the Riigikogu of exactly the same content initiated by the Social Democrats has been on the agenda in this Chamber, which was taken back by the Soviets when they formed a coalition with the Reform Party. I don't blame you at all because you took it back. But today, our draft is before you in a situation where we are imposing an obligation on this government that will come to life after the elections. In the case of a draft initiated by the Fatherland and Res Publica Association, it is clear that it is supported by the IRL. For the Socialists, too, this programmed position has said that they support the establishment of a national support fund. The Centre Party has made it very clear that it supports the establishment of a national support fund. The Reform Party has said that they do not support the establishment of a national support fund, and that is their world-view position. I want to say that no matter which government next takes office, with today's decision we will take down the political tensions around this very important subject concerning a very large number of children and we will issue a guideline to the Riigikogu on 1 January 2016 to bring about the implementation of the child support fund. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I call on you to think about this completely sincerely before today's vote. As you have been chosen here, you are free to make your own decisions. Also in this decision, is the fund actually helping children of parents raising the child alone, who are one in four children in Estonia. I think that in the course of the debate you will realise that this is one sensible step that our Riigikogu can take in this composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U6	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U7	Good morning. Good manager! Dear waitress, First of all, thank you very much for bringing up this very painful and serious issue and bringing it to us! There are often long speeches in this hall about how children and young people are our future and how we wish there were more children in Estonian families. Undoubtedly, the ideal situation is that there is a mother and father in the family and that every child can grow up in the family. But unfortunately, every time, the situation is far from ideal. It happens that the father or mother has neglected the child. This is where the country should help. Can you tell us what State aid measures could be?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U8	Thank you. That's a good question. Yesterday, the Social Affairs Committee examined the Green Paper of the Ministry of Social Affairs, which contained a number of measures that could be implemented. One of these was, for example, raising the level of income support. However, there is also a clear recommendation in the Green Paper that the state support fund should be put into effect precisely because it is not a new, separate social support, but rather a measure that is a sustainable and effective state to come to the rescue of the debts owed to their children by those who evade the payment of a living allowance. You see, this is not the creation of some huge new system of additional support, but rather the implementation of the state's possibilities for the purpose of getting the money that has been passed on to them by law. Actually, we're coming to help them. This is therefore a very appropriate measure for a country like us, which has a high administrative capacity to communicate with its citizens. The other side is that in the same way, the fund really pays these kids monthly money, but the other way around, it also collects that money. For example, in our neighbouring Sweden, the effectiveness of such a fund in recovering debts is 90%. If we force the fund and the draft drawn up by the Ministry of Justice, which is currently pending in the Riigikogu, to make the recovery of debts owed to earners even stronger and more effective, we will ensure that, in the combination of these two decisions, the monthly receipt of a livelihood for a large number of children and the recovery of debts on the other hand.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U9	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the next questioner, just a procedural reminder that when dealing with a draft decision containing a proposal to the Government of the Republic, everyone will be able to ask a question to the speaker. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U10	Thank you. Good waitress! Actually, I wanted to ask you about the very subject you just finished with. The explanatory memorandum also states that 90% of payments in Sweden will be refunded to the state, while 65% will be refunded to the fund in Finland, so much less. This is certainly a critical issue from the point of view of the whole bill. In many respects, the objections are based on the fact that the state's participation will not grow very much in the meantime, which is certainly a cause for concern. Can you explain what has been done wrong in Finland? Why are they so much worse than Sweden with the percentage of their repayments?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U11	Thank you. If we look at another country where it has been implemented, then their percentages are also lower than in Sweden. I think the reason is that both sides of the principle have not been dealt with in a complex way. It has been politically decided that we will set up a fund to ensure the monthly payment of child maintenance allowance, and this has been a popular idea, but the other way to actually get that allowance out of the debtors has not been so systematically worked out. This is our chance. We have a draft in the proceedings prepared by the Government of the Republic and the Ministry of Justice, which already provide for additional opportunities to obtain money from the debtors for maintenance. I'm telling you, it's not enough. However, if we make a decision today and propose to the Government of the Republic to put into effect a livelihood fund from 1 January 2016, not only the Ministry of Justice, but also the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and certainly the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Government of the Republic, will be able to develop a mechanism by which we will receive maximum maintenance money from debtors. After all, we are all very proud that we have a well-developed e-state, citizens are communicating with the state, and we know about our citizens that our tax receipts are excellent compared to some other European countries. I also have the courage to have a more distant perspective. Many Estonian people are working in Finland and the question has arisen as to how we can get money from them. Now Estonia and Finland are already communicating with each other on this subject and are discussing how to move information between the two countries about people who work in one country or another, looking at people who work in Finland. I see a long and effective prospect of cooperation on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U12	Please, Aare Heinvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U13	Thank you. Good waitress! For the sake of clarity, we will give them titles when dealing with the topics. Appropriate measures exist, such as security measures, labour market measures, demographic measures, etc. At the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs, you said that a livelihood fund is not a social measure. Can you open up this subject a little bit and give it a simplified title?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U14	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, I do not consider this a social measure in the sense that we are creating some kind of new social support system, because that is not what we are doing. The fact that the Riigikogu board also discussed whether to send this draft to the Social Affairs Committee or to the Legal Affairs Committee gives a philosophical background in itself. It is not about creating new social support, but rather about ensuring that children receive a living allowance each month. Because, as you can see from the figures, these kids don't have time to wait months or years until there's a lawsuit going on and maybe the bailiff's finally gonna get the money. Children develop every day and need monthly allowance to ensure that they have food on the table and clothes on, not to mention that they can also engage in an education of interest, for example. The other way around, we need to create a system that will force people to behave in a legitimate manner. I reject the moral background here at all, although it is completely incomprehensible to me personally that a person is avoiding support for the development of his own child, even at a minimum level. But I am now talking by the state about the fact that it is precisely the jurisdiction of the justice and judicial system with which to run this fund that is absolutely necessary. The third dimension concerns the financial side. I myself see that it would be better if this fund were not managed by the Ministry of Social Affairs, for example, or put under child protection or the Family Department, but held responsible by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance is a ministry with the power to develop and influence the entire Government of the Republic, so that this fund can work effectively. The point is that this is not a purely social measure. But a broad philosophical foundation is still entirely social, in the sense that we must show solidarity in society. That is what we have agreed, and that is the content of our country. We have to help people who are in a more difficult situation. And one in four children is in a very difficult situation right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U15	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U16	Thank you. To make a more informed and better decision in this Chamber, please explain to your colleagues some of the things that have caused confusion so far. First of all, how do you become a single parent at all? Some people think that this is the life goal of irresponsible women. Second, please explain the two meanings of the single parent concept. It has even sounded like people are doing this on purpose, because then EUR 19.18 receives support from a single parent. Please explain these misconceptions and erroneous interpretations of concepts thoroughly here!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U17	Thank you, good questioner! As I said at the beginning of my speech, the reasons why we have single parents or why we have so many households of parents raising children alone are certainly very different. There are reasons that people just don't get along anymore. But I also want to stress during this discussion that most parents who have broken up are still taking care of their children. From the point of view of the current debate, society has given the impression that all those who break up for some reason are 'crown mothers' or 'crown fathers'. No, it's not. Most people take care of their children. But we are talking about this part of the parents who are not fulfilling their obligation. These people's lives must be literally turned into hell. As far asmbiguity is concerned, indeed, we do have the term'single parent', by which parents whose child's other parent has not been registered must be understood. These people also receive support from a single parent. It's very small, but they still get it. Indeed, there is also the notion that this is why these parents do not even register the name of another parent, that they will receive the support of a single parent, but that is certainly not true. Yesterday, the proposal from the Ministry of Social Affairs was that this requirement should actually be abolished, because we are relatively clear who is the household of the parent raising the child alone. It is in households of an elder raising a child alone that we have over 55,000 children, almost 56000. So there are two legal terms that have different content. A single parent is a parent whose other parent of the child is unknown or not registered. But the main problem we are talking about is the household of parents raising a child alone. These terms do not in themselves interfere with the day-to-day work of the child-support fund, as the specific case of that fund is based on an official court-ordered maintenance allowance. So more precise legal nuances should be given to the work of the Government of the Republic when this fund is being prepared, but the principle is clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U18	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U19	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, You rightly said in your speech that the Centre Party Group supports the creation of this fund and it is sad that it has been delayed for so long. But I specifically ask: what is the size of this fund and what is the amount to be taken into account in the 2016 state budget in order to receive the fund's money?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U20	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U21	Thank you. Exactly how big this fund is going to be, it's hard for me to say in the details right now. As we know, the amount of maintenance money that is now officially paid is more than EUR 10 million. This figure is likely to amount to EUR 10 to EUR 15 million, which must be taken from the state budget as a guarantee. But I repeat, this is a two-way system in the sense that, in the same way, we are committing the state to paying out the children's monthly livelihoods, but the other way around, we are going to collect the money. So the state budget has to take into account a certain amount of "guarantees" to be put into the fund, but I hope that it is precisely because the Ministry of Finance is going to deal with this fund and manage it, that the annual minus is as small as possible. In the future, the annual burden on the state budget will depend largely on how much we can actually recover the maintenance money from the fund. So the size of EUR 15 million could be what we could count on when planning the 2016 state budget, but the Government of the Republic will certainly be able to set a more precise amount and forecast for next year's budget procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U22	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, There has now been a lot of talk about money and, as I have understood so far, this fund has not been born because one coalition partner has always considered it too expensive. I understand from the explanatory memorandum that if we behave rationally as our neighbours, the Swedes, this is not a measure that is so expensive as to save our families. But I am asking you about a much more important subject, and it is family violence that you also touched on in your introductory speech. Now that the neighbours have calculated the sums of money, did the Commission mention whether their domestic violence had diminished since then? Theoretically, this should be the case, but does the practice of our neighbours show this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U23	Thank you. Indeed, in Estonia, third sector organisations have also been very active in the subject of domestic violence in recent years. In drafting this draft, I have discussed with them several times and asked for advice on what additional measures are or how to do it, also in the light of the experience of other countries. Indeed, there are a lot of stories where a person suffering from domestic violence, usually a woman, I do not want to offend any man, because domestic violence can be the opposite, and I do not dare to leave the violence with my children. One of the threats that sounds like you won't get another cent from me, you don't have a job, or your salary is small, and you just can't do it if you leave now. Very often, then, a person decides to suffer a little more or hope that maybe it was the last time he was subjected to violence. The organisations involved in this subject have pointed out that at one point a psychological situation could arise that could even be tolerated for years, perhaps self-indictment would also arise, and perhaps it would be my fault that my partner was violent against me. The dramatic thing is that in this case, it is the relationship between two grown-ups. In fact, however, children who live in a psychologically and mentally very unstable situation are still suffering, although perhaps directly against them has not been subjected to violence. Tracks are knocking out, according to a number of studies, even during the planning of these children's own family. The livelihood fund has a major impact because it gives the way out and confidence to those who suffer from domestic violence. They know that for each child, they are guaranteed, even at a minimum, a maintenance allowance if the other parent does not pay it. There is also a draft in our proceedings, as I have already mentioned, with which we will speed up and make a significant contribution to the procedure for calculating the living allowance. This means that the time between leaving home and the final decision on legal proceedings will be shorter in the future than so far. At least at a minimum. Representatives of the Bar Association have also visited our committee. They have spoken about the length of time it takes to deal with a particular amount of maintenance. One side proves how much the other half earns every month and what percentage or how much of it should be paid for maintenance. However, the courts will quickly determine at least the minimum maintenance allowance. That would be precisely the requirement that the fund would immediately receive and that would ensure that the maintenance money was received. By the way, at present, the State pays a maintenance allowance to one parent who is on the applicant's side in the course of a minimum period of three months in the course of legal proceedings. So in that sense, we have a little buffer, but it's not enough, because it won't come back later. That's why you need a living fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U24	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U25	Thank you. I hope that there will be no members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber who will be left out. Certainly, great steps have been taken to better protect children, including those who fail to fulfil their responsibilities. If today, for example, there were 70 million euros on one side on the other to give to the Estonian Air, which will be burned out, and on the other side a living fund, I would immediately raise two hands in favour of transferring money to a livelihood fund. But I didn't want to talk about it, but instead I wanted to ask you, because you've dealt with the subject so thoroughly how much it would cost to manage this fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U26	Thank you, good questioner! I have already answered a similar question, namely that there is currently a debt, i.e. a little over EUR 10 million in claims. If we assume that all these claims will be transferred, given that they have accumulated over the years, this fund will not make the entire disbursement at any time, but will pay the money each month at least at a minimum. It all depends on how we start the fund. The second question is how many people turn directly to this very fund. Very many parents have made such a decision that, alright, we broke up and the other half stays out of maintenance, but we don't go on in court. In many cases, it is either personal pride or dignity, because it requires a thorough debate in court if it has to be proved that it really cannot. Very many people decide that we can do this, and so easily a non-payer can get away with his duty, without any procedure. The analysis shows that the order of magnitude that we could consider that the state would be willing to contribute to this fund is EUR 15 million. If we take this decision today, the Government of the Republic, in particular the Ministry of Finance in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Social Affairs, will certainly be able to calculate the exact cost for the 2016 state budget procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U27	Thank you. Please, Barbi Pilvre!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U28	Thank you, good manager. Thank you to the waitress for the very clear and passionate talk. We're talking about a great patism, the future of a nation, and the protection of families. The topic of living money is a very real and rural issue compared to this, a real life compared to the pre-election political foam. I will ask you a question as an experienced politician. Why is age and children a big public, interesting topic, the most important issue in Estonia, while maintenance money is, in some people's opinion, a matter between two people?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U29	Thank you. That is a very good and also very painful question. Without mentioning the names, but, as I said, since 2007, I have been dealing with this issue, and I know that my colleague, Reet Roos, has been doing so at least since 2003. Maybe it's been easier for me to deal with it because I'm a man. In the sense that stereotypical thinking is still entirely present in Estonian society. Although, as I said in my speech, the situation in 2007 has improved considerably in terms of different forms of family. I think that because of our historical and perhaps cultural background, there has been a special approach to a parent raising a child alone, especially if she is a woman rather than a subject that is not wanted to be dealt with. But I think our society's understanding has changed. In order to preserve our people, every child is important to us. Whether he or she has parents, whether he or she has one or two parents, whether they get along well or not. To this principle of compassion or solidarity and understanding, my joy has been added to economic, financial understanding in recent years. As Minister of Finance of Jürgen Ligi, he certainly saw the calculations that if we do not take care of our children now, if we do not guarantee their development opportunities and if we have enough of them, we will no longer be able to accept a state budget of this size in the Riigikogu in the future, because we simply do not have people who support the country. In this sense, the state support fund, if you look at cost efficiency, is certainly one of the most effective measures to ensure that the children whom I have already mentioned here really are able to develop by guaranteeing the receipt of their money for almost every fourth child. This thinking world has changed a lot, and I really hope that in four years our Riigikogu has ripened to such a level that we are free and understanding enough to exclude the political positions of political parties, and we can make the right decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U30	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U31	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! We are talking about parents who raise their child alone when talking about a living fund. But we can also well imagine that if the parent's problems accumulate and perhaps there is a combination of unpleasant and bad circumstances, he too may be able to slow down and the child will be left without the care of one parent. I know you're familiar with the subject of replacement care and orphanages. Tell me, do you see the solution to the issue of setting up a fund that we are saving some children from a situation where they should go to substitute care and lose their only parent?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U32	Yeah, these things are really tough. I myself have been before I came to the Riigikogu in 2007 at the start of an orphanage and I am still involved in it. It is very harsh to see that people with good education and a good nursery often break down, but they are left alone to raise children, under the burden of where they have come from. Unfortunately, these kids are falling into the substitution system. The pressure on parents raising children alone is very high. We are talking more about the material side, the financial side, today, but it is very difficult to measure the mental burden of coping with ourselves and with the development of our children, the spiritual tension that these parents have. There are not rare cases where some predisposed mental illness or any other disorder occurs under stress. The Fund, which will be set up, will certainly provide one measure on how to take the tension away from parents, whatever it takes, will only be reflected in children's development in the long term when they have grown up. So I ask you not to approach this fund solely on the basis of the size of the national budget allocations and the dispute. The impact of this fund is much wider. Why not, at one point when the fund has gone to work, apply the knowledge and analysis it provides in our social system. Maybe we can learn from it and therefore we can make something else work much better.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U33	Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U34	Thank you very much. After all, this is a very true and beautiful talk; we have always supported such a position with the Centre Party. But I'm asking you, if you've been in power with the Reform Party for seven years, why haven't you done it? The opposition would have come back anyway. Right now, it seems kind of demagogic. You've had real pumps. We've been waiting. This has been discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs, in the Committee on Social Affairs and, on several occasions, all kinds of open sessions have taken place. Why, then, are we turning our views on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U35	Thank you, good Marika! I'll answer your question, but I hope you're still free to make your own decisions and want to support this fund. I'll answer honestly, as I've been. We have not been able to agree on this issue in the coalition. That's how it's been, and I have nothing to hide here. We have further developed this issue by supporting organisations that specifically deal with it. In particular, the aim is to help society to increase awareness so that the problems of parents raising a child alone are more understandable, discussed, copied and calculated. Because really, as you yourself remember, in the early 2000s or even in the 1990s, the attitudes of society were different and the problem of parents raising a child alone was not at all a public and politically conscious subject. I think that's what we've achieved by now. But we have not been able to enter all this into the coalition agreement in a coalition with the Reform Party to such an extent that we could have come here with a concrete bill on behalf of the government. For the same reason, I also understand the social democrats very well. If you think I'm gonna attack the pigs, I'm not gonna do that. After all, in our proceedings a little more than a year ago, the Social Democratic Party initiated the same proposal to the Government of the Republic. We sent this draft from the Committee on Social Affairs to this Chamber, the Social Affairs Committee supported this bill as it is now, the Social Affairs Committee has supported this bill, but then the government coalition and the socialists took back their draft. And I understand why they took it back. Because they failed to put it in coalition negotiations with the Reform Party. They managed to put a lot of other things in there, and in favour of all that else, at least in my memory, the entire Chamber of Riigikogu has voted here later. But it's out of the question. All the more reason, Marika, for asking that question. I was not going to say this in my speech, but I will now speak briefly about the current political logic. Currently, the Riigikogu has a few weeks left to work in this composition. We are proposing to the Government of the Republic that this fund be set up from 1 January 2016. This means that the Soviets, who are currently in the coalition with the Reform Party, will be able to vote freely in this Chamber, as their programme and the election promises for the next four years. The people of the Central Party and the people of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union can do so. It is easier for us to negotiate a coalition after the next elections, no matter who makes up the next coalition, if we already have the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic to set up a support fund that will work from 1 January 2016. I really hope that today we will not go into some sort of inter-party stamp, but we will talk about it. Our pre-election chemistry does not absolutely contribute to the development of the nearly 50,000 children we stand for.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U36	Please, Reet Roos!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U37	Thank you. Good waitress, please explain this draft once again for the sake of clarity and also for the verbatim. Yesterday, the argument in the Commission that we already have another draft which improves, complements and helps to recover money better was that one 'compensate' the other. Please explain again how these laws complement each other and not replace each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U38	Thank you. Indeed, we have a draft prepared by the Ministry of Justice in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, and its content is how to help as effectively as possible to obtain a living allowance from another parent who avoids payment. This concerns a number of measures, starting from a faster and more effective judicial procedure, to the point where the possibility is given to temporarily suspend the driving licence, the hunting permit or all of it. This is only one step, and I am very grateful to the Ministry of Justice that it is done. I see that this is more of a moral, emotional and value step towards recognising how serious the problem we have with the paying agents of living money and that single parents' families cannot cope because they do not pay the living allowance. But this system is not very radical and still does not guarantee the receipt of monthly maintenance payments. If we add a resolution on the draft fund for maintenance to the draft prepared at the Ministry of Justice and we work it out together, we will have a comprehensive system. One way or another, we guarantee the child's monthly allowance, but the other way around, we have to change the laws to give the fund, or the state, more levers to get the money from the debtors. Together, these measures constitute a solution that really works and helps children. Without the support fund, we will not achieve this goal and will most likely have to wait years before we can come up with a comprehensive solution. At this point, I would ask that you do not contradict the two drafts, because they form a whole with each other, not one excluding the other, but the other, one being a tool.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U39	Thank you. Please, Maimu Berg!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U40	Thank you. Good waitress! You have such a positive emotional effect on me. Maybe the question I want to ask has already been asked, because I was a little late. But I ask you, however, how do you feel about the fact that the employer often conceals income and is playing with an employee who is indebted. What do you think of this and is it possible to solve this issue with the help of the Fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U41	Thank you, very good question! Indeed, it is now very common practice that the bailiff has already seized the accounts of a person who owes a specific maintenance allowance, but it is known that the person is actually working and he or she will receive income either from an informal payment or transfer money to someone else's account. The fund that is to be created must certainly have the means to determine whether tax evasion has real benefits and where it is possible to find and capture this person. The fund is certainly not a repressive body, but rather a mediator in order to ensure, even if agreed, the flow of information over a period of time. A debtor who may be in very serious economic difficulties must be helped to recover. After all, we have institutions involved in this, such as the unemployment fund or also social workers. Secondly, the tax administration and our entire employment system are much more able to find out the real picture at the current information base. That is why I see that the fund should be under the Ministry of Finance. On the other hand, I hope that employers will risk less and less and not pay their employees' wages informally, which is being checked by the state anyway. In summary, I think that the country will in any case have much more opportunities to influence the process than this single parent who raises children fights in the labour market, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U42	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You've been the bearer of this idea for a long time. I wonder if, as far as you know, the main opponent of this idea, the Reform Party, has any ideological or other reasons, other than financial, that they do not support it. I just had this discussion in this Chamber and it was said that this was not a right-wing idea. Although I do not know whether raising child support, which the same person supported, is somehow more of a right-wing idea than the draft under discussion. The electoral promise of the Reform Party to a third child of EUR 300 in child support is, in my view, an idea as important as what we are currently discussing. This money talk doesn't seem credible enough. Do you have any other arguments besides money?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U44	Thank you, good questioner! I really don't want to go into political analysis, but I want to state my point of view. If the interests of Estonian children are at stake, then frankly, I do not care much about the definitions of political-technologists and political-logists as to whether we apply left-, right- or centre-strength policies to ensure them. We must always bear in mind that we are actually able to implement this in our family policy. We must not make promises without cover. A livelihood fund is, in fact, one of the most effective measures to ensure that child maintenance is guaranteed. You see, this is not some kind of social support, but it is a delivery of money, which is already theirs, to these children. This is the minimum one country can even do for its children. We've just been watching for years, and we haven't been actively involved. From the statements made by the Reform Party, I have more in mind the principle that this is not only about money, but rather about why all honest taxpayers who fulfil their obligations towards children should pay for failing other parents. Now that's a question. It's a philosophical argument. Perhaps this is where the question of liberalisation is expressed, which concerns Estonian children and Estonian family policy. Getting behind our liberal worldview and not caring about the children we have in general one in four, almost 56000 children who are most likely to be in such a situation, is not really in the interests of the state. IRL is a conservative national party and our worldview and economic policy are clearly on the right side. But perhaps the difference between conservativeness and liberality is that conservativeness has the ability to raise certain priorities to the fore, and for the IRL, it has always been a policy for children and families. Therefore, the least that the Estonian people can do is to show solidarity with children who are in a very difficult situation. On the other hand, in the interests of the same taxpayers that the Reform Party is referring to, it is precisely that we demand, at national level, debts which they owe to their children, rather than turning off any other taps elsewhere. You see, in fact, the best way to use honest taxpayers' money is to put into practice the idea of a living fund. Otherwise, we will be obliged to contribute to raising income support and to take even wider social measures. That is why taxpayers would have a legitimate question as to why we have not implemented the idea of a public maintenance fund. Perhaps the problem is that the Reform Party has not gone into our idea thoroughly. I hope that, before today's vote, the debate here has helped, if not the whole group, at least some of them. In conversations between me, I have spoken with quite a few members of the Riigikogu about Reform Party and it is actually understood that this is one of the best ways of using honest taxpayers' money to ensure that children can cope with their daily lives, even at a minimum.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U45	Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U46	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! As you mentioned, there are currently 56000 children in Estonia who are expecting a living allowance, and a total of 12 million is the amount that is somewhere in the air. How is it even possible that it hasn't been noticed so far? The real sufferers are simple children. Perhaps you will explain again how this situation has arisen. How is it possible that in a hall where there are 101 members of the Riigikogu, no one will feel that so many children have been left in poverty in Estonia because one of the parents does not want to provide financial support for raising a child?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U47	Thank you. We've had this information, all the parties have talked about children and families. I have also highlighted here several times what I have sensed over these years that we are actually moving to the best and indeed, no matter which outlook or party's programmes, there is an increasing capacity to understand problems that may not have been wanted to understand before. The problems of single parents have always been culturally, historically hidden somewhere. But today's debate shows that at least the majority of the Riigikogu has very clearly acknowledged this problem. And not only have three large parties represented in the Riigikogu written in their own programmes. The specific solution is the same national maintenance fund. Over the years, we have moved much further, and our awareness has grown, and we have also found political solutions to this problem. I really hope that today at least 51 Members will vote in favour of this decision, because this decision will require so many votes. I have seen over these years that it is possible to go out of the hall for exactly this moment and then to say to the public: 'In fact, I support this draft. I think the National Maintenance Fund is the best measure to help 56000 children, and I was not opposed, but you see, unfortunately, the Riigikogu did not adopt this draft. " Today, we have the decision to make. I ask at least 51 members to be here and vote in favour!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U48	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U49	Thank you. Good waitress! The topic of living allowance has been mentioned in the corridors of the Riigikogu, in the commission and between political parties for years, although it has not reached anywhere. Today, we are closest to the fact that it will eventually be dealt with and that a law and a maintenance fund will be created. Do you think the fund should also start dealing with maintenance claims years ago, so that people who have not been supported and raised alone so far will also be compensated?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U50	Thank you. I think this is where you really have to think about how to solve it. In any case, I see that the people who are currently supposed to pay the maintenance allowance, for example, as of February 2, 2016 and for whom the claims have been up for a long time, must, in any case, be paid out. With this draft, which is currently the second in the process, we are also extending the limitation periods. If someone has been able to evade payment for years, there should be no justification for simply losing his claim. The possibility of recovery should certainly remain ex post, as the requirements are active and valid. And the fact that the fund will be set up from 1 January 2016 does not mean that people who were in debt before, whose claims are legally in force, can still avoid it. In this sense, there was a very constructive question, and I hope that once we have taken this decision, the Government of the Republic will also look after this idea from the verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U51	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Margus Tsahkna! I would like to ask for the chair of the Social Affairs Committee to be chaired by Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Social Affairs Committee appointed me waitress. I will present to you draft 773 and its discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs. Margus has already answered many of the questions that we had in the Commission today, but perhaps I am going to dwell on a few points. For example, the first question. The absolute and relative poverty figures you have brought in the explanatory memorandum, but what would be the justification for receiving support from the target group? Have you thought about introducing needs-based support for those below the level? And the second question: in view of emigration, how faithful could children now living in poverty be? The fund doesn't concern parents who pay for a decent living. This concerns only those who do not pay and have a judgment. The fund pays a minimum, not a big living, and economic inequality is not taken into account. The question that this measure is, if it is not a social measure, has also been asked here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, and I will not dwell on it. There was also the question of what is the difference between men's and women's thinking. Men say that everything is fine if there are leverage tools, for example, a driver's license or a hunting permit, etc., but it is important for women to get the money and be able to raise children, not to torture a man with sanctions. There was also the idea that anything could be implemented, even in relation to the second pillar pension funds. It was also clarified that the measures are in the Committee on Legal Affairs, where additional measures are still in place, for example by imposing additional obligations on bailiffs and the penalties will come into effect before the maintenance fund is put into effect. It was also expressed the view that it is important for children to be raised, but we do not have a comprehensive solution for those who have not paid a living. It was also found that the state has to take on more, but that requires a lot of information with calculations. Latvia's experience was not encouraging. The draft does not state what effective instruments will be created. The problem of recovery is really on the mother right now, so the state needs to develop measures to get the money. The comment was said to be that is what the bill says. It was also asked whether those countries where such a law exists have come up with ways to obtain money from debtors living in other countries and whether they have entered into transnational agreements. This was already answered in this Chamber, but we also talked about it in the Commission. The answer in the committee was that the information exchange is between Estonia and Finland; NGO Single Parent Good has dealt with this topic. We can apply a sanction to our residents, with many employees in Finland. Let's count on the contracts, there's potential. It was also discussed that the key issue is not to get the money, but to have the child's interests first. The child's mother and father should not be against each other, but they are parents. The mother should not deal with whether the non-payer has or does not have a driver's licence, etc. The greater idea of a state fund is that a child is raised in a positive partnership and the child does not need to see a parent's fight. The opinion was expressed that the topic is sharp and when the draft is ready, the next step is to bring it to the Chamber of the Riigikogu and put it to the vote. It was also found that it seems that we do not want to address the main issue, but that we want to create a compensation mechanism to compensate for our omissions. Let us think together and solve the issue of coercive measures together with the Committee on Legal Affairs. It was proposed to develop coercive measures to better obtain a living. The court listens to two parties in making the decision, the problem is what follows the judgment. This was a brief review of the debate on the draft in the Commission. The questions and answers are taken from the verbatim, which is why I apologise for the fact that they may seem bumpy in this Chamber, but that is the way the bill went. I also want to say that I have left out some questions and answers because they have been asked several times in this very Chamber. The Commission proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 27 January and put to the final vote. The draft requires a majority of its component members for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U53	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U54	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I understand you didn't discuss it exactly that way in the Commission, but I'm asking you whether you, assholes, understand what you're doing or what you're doing. The thing you could support is you're against it now. However, when you yourself were in opposition, you supported it. Why such a change of heart? With the law of gender neutral, you're gonna cross the crowd so it's dusty, and you're against what you can help people with. I don't understand you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U55	Thank you, good questioner! Bastards have always known what they were doing. Unlike you, who have not correctly understood the law you have mentioned here, and you have also made inappropriate remarks in your committee, like your penguin on the Social Committee. We'll see how we vote. Now, if you're saying that we've had a different view from the Centre Party before in this Chamber, that's not the case. Because there hasn't been a bill to vote on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U56	Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U57	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs! The guardian of the bill, Margus Tsahkna, told us that since 2007 the IRL has supported exactly the same draft. You were also chairman of the Social Affairs Committee in 2007-2011 and IRL was in government in 2007/2014. Could you, then, remind those people who were not present in these debates since 2007, which prevented these debates from becoming drafts for eight years and from arriving at the discussion of the grand Chamber of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U58	Thank you. I do not recall having discussed in 2007, 2008 and so on in the Committee on Social Affairs on maintenance. There was certainly no draft IRL in the committee to set up a livelihood fund. If I have also spoken to the IRL ambassadors, many have said that they do not support the creation of a livelihood fund, and that is why the Reform Party has failed to agree on the idea of creating a fund. And there's one more thing I want to do. It is not the case that the confrontation or sympathy of the creation of a maintenance fund goes along political parties. In fact, there are advocates in every political party, and no one can say that there are doubters in one or the other as to whether this fund is necessary. But I can assure you that we have talked to the Social Democrats about a livelihood fund, and it is vital for us that it is created. I would also like to say that it has not been so important to the IRL that they have entered into an agreement to set up a fund with their coalition partner, with whom they were in the government for seven years. Looking back when the Social Democrats and the Reform Party formed the government, we had promised our voters that child support would have to rise. We agreed that child benefit for the first and second children would rise to EUR 45, from the third child to EUR 100 per month. Similarly, the need-based child allowance for the first child of the family increased from EUR 9 to EUR 45 and in a family with two or more children to EUR 90. There was also a rise in the support of a child growing in a substitute home, by a whole third, to 240 euros. The state also gave the upper secondary school the right to have school food and so on. Similarly, income support means that the second member of the family is equated to the first member when receiving income support if he or she is a child. A lot of things we have been able to do in cooperation with the current coalition partner. So it's not like you can't do it. If something's very important, you can do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U59	Kaia Ival is a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U60	Thank you very much for your attention. However, the respondent can answer questions without being vetoed. Please continue! Tarmo Pine! One moment, Peter Võsa has a procedural question. A microphone for Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U61	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to point out that the debate has long gone beyond those frames which would somehow go under discussion in the Commission, far from that. Perhaps Mr President would be so good and watch this too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U62	Thank you. I would also like to thank the President for bringing this to his attention. However, the ambassador is free in his questions and may ask for anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U63	Thank you! Please, Tarmo Pines!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U64	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I admit there is a problem in society. I don't remember ever doing this the way it was today. Here's the question. As we know, the will of 51 members of the Riigikogu is mandatory for the government and will remain valid until the new Riigikogu arrives. It is not impossible to come back to it after the elections. Did you talk about that in the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U65	No, we did not talk about that in the Commission. But if the draft decision under discussion becomes a decision today, it means that it will be mandatory for the next government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U66	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U67	Thank you very much. Dear waitress, Can it be hoped that the creation of a livelihood fund will also reduce violence against women in society, so that a woman who suffers violence can end the relationship if there is a livelihood fund because she has a sense of security?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U68	Thank you, very good question! Yesterday, when we discussed the situation of single parents in the public session of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, a representative of a non-profit association who is just dealing with violence and asylum against women said that many women who are "snatched" at home would be happy to leave their partner or spouse and take their children with them, but they are not doing this because they are afraid. They think they can't handle it if a man still instills every day that you can't handle it when you're leaving with the kids, the kids are in poverty, and so on. The existence of a livelihood fund certainly reduces poverty in families of parents raising children alone and helps them to cope better.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U69	Please, Eldar Efendiev, it's your turn!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U70	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! The subject has been topical for at least eight years, as far as I understand it, particularly as regards the initiative we are discussing today. But I have this question: is the creation of a fund the only way to deal with the issue and reduce the problem in our society or have other options and models been discussed? Can you describe it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U71	In fact, in most countries, we are being organised in one way or another, either through an institution or in some other way, to guarantee maintenance, even every month, a specific amount for all children whose parents do not fulfil their obligations. When it comes to maintenance funds in other countries of the European Union, the livelihood paid to a parent raising a child alone depends either on the age of the child or on the number of children under 16 years of age, for example in Germany, the allowance for a child under 7 years of age is higher, as well as in Norway. In some countries, the livelihood paid to a parent raising a child alone does not differ from that paid to children in families with two parents, for example in Hungary. In some places, single parents raising one child are not paid, for example, in Iceland. In Ireland, it is the responsibility of the second parent to prove the lack of support. In Italy, maintenance payments are imposed on the local government. If we look at the Netherlands, it is the case that a single parent raising at least one child under the age of 5 does not have to go to work or actively seek work for a living in six years, but must participate in educational programmes. When we talk about the sources of cover for the payment of maintenance, money comes from the state budget in part or in whole, and local government participation or social tax is also possible. When the money or part of the money needed to pay a living is collected from a parent, the result has been very ineffective, for example, in Poland. In answer to the other side of your question, there are some measures for single parents, i.e. parents raising a child alone. In that case, there is no distinction between a single parent and a single parent. I'll explain the terms. It is the single parent whose child's birth certificate includes a record of the child's father, whether according to the mother's statements or not, but the parents raising the child alone are those who do not live together and who have a child or who have one of the parents of the child died. So there are a variety of measures, but the support mechanisms of the state should be applicable to them together.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U72	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U73	Thank you. Good waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U74	Peter Laurson has a second question. He's already asked the first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U75	Good waitress, thank you for helping the manager. Good questioner, within this item, the members of the Riigikogu have one oral question. Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U76	Thank you. By setting up this fund, are you not afraid that you will take away the responsibility of those parents who, so far, avoid participating in raising their children?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U77	Thank you for your question. That's a good question. In fact, this step is very important because in this case, a parent who is obliged to pay for a living but does not owe the state. In 99% of cases, it is the mother who raises the child alone, and then the father who does not pay does not owe the mother. Let's say he doesn't pay his mother now and he doesn't owe his country. In this case, if he owes the state The state can impose all kinds of sanctions, and it is therefore very important that if parents cannot agree on the payment of a living, or if a judgment has already been issued and the parent is still not obliged to pay a living, then the money would be paid through a maintenance fund. The fund then deals with the obligation to pursue the parent and receive the money, and the child would be guaranteed a certain amount that would be paid into the account by, for example, the first date of each month. I want to stress that, from a women's point of view, it is very important that every month there is money to raise a child, especially in order to raise a child, not so much as to impose any sanctions on men. But if it goes through the fund, then sanctions are justified. When we look at Latvia's experience, they started off off at the wrong end of the story, they created the fund before they got the money, and then they tightened it up, they imposed stricter sanctions. But Estonia has gone the other way, first we will tighten up the measures, we will squeeze more survivors and make changes to the law, and there will be a maintenance fund to ensure that the state does not suffer so much damage.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U78	I'm asking you to give Peter Laurson a microphone because I want to have a discussion with him. Mr Laurson, I have a question for you: have you asked your question from Heljo Pikhof, who is in the chair of the Riigikogu? Please, then, if you have a wish to speak, turn on the microphone and ask your question, because it is indeed the case with this item that a member of the Riigikogu may ask one oral question to each of the rapporteurs rather than a total question. So you're right to ask if you want to. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U79	Thank you. Dear Heljo Pikhof! After all, the Social Democratic Party Group is opposed to the initiation of this draft in the Chamber today. You speak in the same way in this remote control that it is necessary to set up a support fund, but it sounds a little hypocritical if, after a few minutes of leaving the remote control, you will probably vote against the draft. Why are you acting like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U80	It's a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U81	Thank you, good questioner! Are you part of the Social Democratic Party? I think you're still part of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. How do you know how we vote? I will also say one comment on the question of Aivar Koka, because I had to scratch it especially hard in my ear. He asked Margus Tsahkna why it had not been noticed that the subject was up before and why the maintenance fund had not been created or intended for single parents. And Margus also said they'd go out of the hall for a second if they didn't want to vote. I think he knows that from his own hands. But I have a question for the IRL. If you were in government for seven years, why didn't you notice single parents?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U82	Good fellow Peter Võsa, I'm asking for your help. Since I replaced the previous President of the sitting, I do not know if your first question was Margus Tsahkna, the second was procedural, and now the first question is to Heljo Pikhof. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U83	Got it. Please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U84	Since the respondent discredited me, as well as my benchmate, we need to be clear about this right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U85	Good Peter Võsa, right now you have no right to rejoinder.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U86	I want to respond specifically to the waitress because she mentioned me.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U87	The procedural question provides for a procedural question. If he mentions you during the negotiations...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U88	It's a line.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U89	Yeah, but the line can be said during the negotiations. There is, as far as I know, a question and answer round. Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Good answer! We'll see if the Social Democrats are two-faced or not. But my question is that when you discussed the draft in the Commission, you certainly highlighted the experience of the various countries with the livelihood fund. Which countries have the most effective livelihood fund, and from whom should we imitate? Was there any discussion in the Commission about what else we could do during the procedure on this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U91	Thank you, good questioner! If we look at your draft decision, the title is fine. But I think that before we start creating a living fund, we need to discuss very thoroughly what exactly it should look like and so on. There's a lot of questioning about just starting to work. But that is natural because this is a topic that we in the country generally have not discussed. When it comes to the experiences of other countries, Finland and Sweden are certainly at the forefront. Norway, too, where maintenance funds operate very well, where a parent who raises a child on his own receives a specific amount each month, and a maintenance fund deals with receiving money from a debtor parent who avoids paying a living allowance or who may also have some health reasons that he or she cannot pay. There it is well worked out and it works from the debtor to receive quite a lot of money, not like in Latvia. In Sweden, Finland and Norway, people do not want to owe the state, which is why it works.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U92	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U93	Thank you. During the Commission's debate, you mentioned that there is also a difference in the attitude of women and men in your political party towards this draft. I cannot say that in society in general there is a gender difference, because men and women are on one side and on the other. There were still quite a number of assessments in the Commission that you did not currently address in your report. Can you summarise what the views of the draft supporters are next to the financial arguments and what those who do not support the draft have said? What do those who have become indifferent feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U94	When we look at the meetings of the Commission, we did not have any indifference, because the committee meeting was in favour of 4 and 2 against, with no abstentions. What are the arguments in favour? I think there has been a lot of talk about them, as well as those that have been put forward as counter-arguments. Perhaps the main argument in favour is that a parent who has to raise a child alone certainly knows that every month, a child receives some amount from a maintenance fund that he can operate on, and he knows that he has not been left alone. The child needs money for food, education, etc. on a daily basis. The main argument was that it is not known where the money will be taken from, or maybe the parents who are obliged will not pay, but rely on the fund. These are two basic pros and cons. But what I want to say is that once we have discussed in the group the creation of a livelihood fund, men have always felt that a livelihood fund is needed. Especially now, because when social democrats have been around the counties, people are asking whether or not there will be a living fund, whether or not single parents will receive more protection from the state or not, etc. If we think about how more children would be born in Estonia, every time one or two or three children are born into the family, we will see if I can raise the child and give it a proper education. Studies also show that public support for parents is often found to be insufficient.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U95	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U96	Thank you. Good waitress! Before the elections, people have become increasingly interested in what the Social Democratic Party really is, either the right or the left. It is my question in the area of ideology. Is the support fund a socialist idea by nature?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U97	Yeah, it's a totally social democratic idea. This is very important to the Social Democrats. We have talked about children in general, say, universal child benefits and children's education of interest, but one part of this is definitely a maintenance fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U98	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U99	Thank you. Let it be noted, as a marginal note, that I am amazed at what all fits into the format 'it was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs'. But now my question. Was the Social Affairs Committee meeting discussing the position of the Ministry of Social Affairs on this fund? You said that there have been many meetings and discussions, but I do not think that your position is clear to the public at the moment. What is the position of the ministry, and do they really see any negative aspects of setting up the fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U100	I will answer briefly. If we look at the Green Paper developed by the Ministry of Social Affairs, which deals with the current situation of children and measures to improve it, then one point is that there is also a maintenance fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U101	Reet Roos, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U102	Thank you. Good waitress! Heljo, do you agree that a maintenance fund is also a very IRL idea? I remember myself in 2005-2006. developing a draft for this purpose in 2005.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U103	Reet, I know that you have always been in favour of this, and thanks to you, there is also this idea, rather than the idea, but the law, that, three months before the trial, I think it is possible to get 280 euros out of a living for three months. I know it's planned to extend this period to six months, but it's not enough on its own. If a child's livelihood has been judged in court, the child should be paid until he grows up. Your idea is different.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U104	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U105	Thank you, manager. Dear Commission waitress, We'll soon find out who's really behind it. There has been talk about who did what five or seven years ago, but the Centre Party has always supported the idea of the Foundation. The key question seems to be where the money is found again. The question is 10 to 15 million, while Estonian Air owes 41 million to the Estonian state. Which one is it better to support Estonian Air or the children? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U106	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that you have not been able to support the livelihood fund in this hall, because during this Riigikogu, this issue has not been raised. If we were talking about Estonian Air and a living fund, I wouldn't be confronting them. If so, the money will also be found in the state budget for one purpose or another. I will once again give an example of an increase in child support. Very large sums of money went to an increase in both universal and needs-based child support, as well as to support children growing in substitute homes, to put upper secondary school children on school meals, as well as to increase income support in families with children. If they want to move in any direction, they'll find the money. But this amount is not 10 to 15 million, but higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U107	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Please contact Riigikogu speech chair Representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union Liisa-Ly Pakosta! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U108	Ladies and gentlemen, Continuing with the previous speaker, I would say that this is undoubtedly a very conservative idea. As a historian, I must admit that if we look at different information about traditional cultures and the little information that we can use, for example, from the soil of Estonian family history, it must be acknowledged that when one parent left the other, it was the landlord, the village elder or the minister, depending on the circumstances and the time, who, figuratively speaking, carried the semi-marriage back to the parent's child and still ordered him to deliver the bread slice to the child. So as a social animal, man has always tried to keep his future generation alive so that, even if forced, he has both parents raising a child. I recall here the time when Elo Odres wrote an article many years ago for which he had invited Res Publica of the Reet Roos and Fatherland Party to my opinion that we would have a huge debate or debate on this issue. That was the first time Reed and I met. It turned out that both parties agreed exactly on the need for a living fund. It was very difficult for a journalist to find any conflict in this story. So, from a human and conservative point of view, let it also be a social democracy idea that we urgently need a livelihood fund, and by now more and more people have certainly understood this need. On history, a slight correction of the errors was made, namely, the third child's contribution to EUR 96 was raised by the Coalition of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association and the Reform Party, not by the Social Democrats, but it is simply said to be a minor historical statement. The most important thing. If a woman does not have the confidence that she has elementary opportunities to raise a child until she is at least 18 years old, she will not have these children. It is very gratifying that several political parties support much larger subsidies from the third child of the family, but looking at the facts, it is clear that Estonia's biggest fall is the failure of the first children. Researchers have found that the main reason for women is that they do not have sufficient security, that they do not have confidence that elementary opportunities to raise their child will be guaranteed if another parent leaves. The impact of a living fund is, in fact, much greater than that of helping specific children. We give confidence to men and women who want to have children and raise children. We give them the assurance that they do not have to fight alone with another parent for obtaining an elementary minimum amount, but that the country is a good and effective mediator for them. If you look at all this from a child's point of view, there is another very important thing. I dare assure you that no child likes to watch his mother and father in the flesh argue or fight among themselves, especially for money. One of the indirect effects of a living fund is not limited to money, but also means that in fact there will be fewer disputes between parents on monetary matters, because the state will become a mediator and there will be more opportunities for the two, mostly very nice, grown-up people who simply have not been able to agree with each other, to talk things out for themselves. The world is changing, we already have several hundred children a year for whom it is not possible to record another parent because they were born by artificial insemination. But if both parents are known, it's a moral question to get them to support their child's upbringing. The long and comprehensive programme of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, which I am going to show you from a distance and which I would recommend everyone to look at, is not limited to a livelihood fund. On pages 32 to 39 of our programme, there are many points about how to prevent the payment of maintenance money. It is very important to stress here that not the payment of maintenance money is an end in itself, but that families must be spared from making it possible to pay maintenance money in the first place. I would like to remind you once again what Mr Tsahkna said that most of the divided parents can do by agreeing with each other how they raise the child and take care of the economic side, i.e. they have not reached the payment of the maintenance allowance through a court decision. That is why we consider it extremely important to extend both communication and family education in the school programme. The Nordic countries, for example, have set a good example in this regard. However, a mandatory conciliation procedure between parents is also important if they have not voluntarily agreed upon supportive parenthood. This, too, has been an example that one party has considered to be a private matter for two people, but we see that this is a much broader issue precisely because the child cannot defend himself in this situation and has no opportunity to reconcile his or her parents. This is just as much as a country can provide greater support in the form of a mandatory conciliation procedure in the interests of that child, except in cases where one parent is separated from another because of violence against the other. A livelihood fund is also the most effective in raising children in economic terms, as it directs money to the child, which otherwise would have to be paid by a solidarity-based social benefit system. On behalf of the Fatherland and the Res Publica Alliance, on behalf of us as drafters, I call on all MPs to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U109	Thank you. A procedural question, please, Peter Võsa! A microphone for Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U110	Thank you. I was told before I couldn't tell my line that I had the floor. It turns out that I am not getting the floor, because I am not a group representative. But I understand I'm still entitled to a reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U111	If your name is called or referred to in this speech chair or on the spot during the negotiations, then of course you are entitled to a reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U112	Heljo Pikhof did it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U113	No, I said during the negotiations. Only one member of the Riigikogu, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, has negotiated the current status. I listened to him quite carefully, I think he was talking about Reet Roos, but not Peter Võsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U114	No, no, no! Not now, but before I couldn't get the word for reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U115	That is exactly what the President said to you then, that the moment is about ten minutes behind it, that if a member of the Riigikogu is appointed during the negotiations, he has the right to reply. What is done in the round of questions and answers will not pass over the round of negotiations. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party Laine Randjärve! Would Reet Roos like to submit a reply? No, I don't. Please, Laine Randjärv! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu, MPs, Companions! Firstly, I would like to emphasise once again that we are going to vote not on the decision to set up a fund, but on the proposal for the Government of the Republic to develop a system guaranteeing the payment of maintenance money. The subject is highly sensitive, unfortunately affecting thousands and thousands of single parents and children, so it is not fair to implement this election campaign in front of the cart. As a advocate of a liberal world view, I do not consider it right that the law punish those who, as taxpayers, fulfil their obligations and pay for their livelihoods. I consider it important, in particular, that maintenance creditors be forced to pay, not so much that obligations are left to all honest taxpayers. I would like to remind you that there is also a proposal for a bill No 803 that could be adopted by the court to impose a ban on taxpayers who receive public benefits or, for example, to withdraw a driving licence. However, social policy is an exceptional phenomenon in the context of the functioning of the country. This is not a result of receiving benefits, but of supporting and helping those in need. A good country comes to the aid of the weaker. Therefore, we must make social policy decisions in particular on the basis of the principle of necessity. Today's vote in the Reform Party Group has been left free. Personally, I believe that it is justified to propose to the Government of the Republic for analysis and development of the system. I am voting in favour of this because no view of the world prohibits humanity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U117	Thank you. I ask Heljo Pikhof, representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu! Sure, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U118	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In Estonia, a parent raising a child alone, who in 91% of cases is a mother, is left on his own when he or she has to initiate the recovery of child maintenance allowance from another parent who fails to fulfil his or her obligations. In theory, the process is simple and logical between parents should be a notarised settlement for the payment of maintenance allowance, and in the event of withdrawal or withdrawal from the agreement, the application for urgent proceedings must be submitted to the court for maintenance allowance under certain conditions. If you still can't get your child's money, you're gonna have to go to the bailiff. If this step doesn't work, then you have to go to the police and start a criminal case. Often, then, the bailiff is turned again to guide him on the way to an elder who is not in charge of his duties. I must have skipped a lot more because in practice, it can become a real holster road and often without redemption, for the result is still a round zero. Throughout this saga, the child, his or her well-being and the climate of growth suffers first and foremost. Our current regime cannot guarantee the protection of very many children's rights, which is the duty of the state. Since the child's livelihood does not run smoothly in other countries, almost all European countries have institutions that collect and pay for child support. In some individual cases, there are also other effective mechanisms within the scope of powers that guarantee child maintenance and, as an advance, the so-called maintenance allowance at the beginning of the calendar month in the event of non-compliance with the agreements. In order to recover the debt, all kinds of instruments are used against the debtor parent, such as the monthly payment of wages, the seizure and pawning of assets, the withdrawal of driving licences, the prohibition of departure from the country, etc. There are several templates to receive the child's money, but nowhere in our immediate vicinity is the parent raising the child alone left alone to carry his burden of worry. In Belgium, for example, the corresponding collecting office, a similar office in the Netherlands, is involved in the recovery of maintenance in the event of failure to comply with the maintenance obligation imposed by the court. In Norway and Sweden, maintenance is collected and transmitted through institutions and is paid in advance at the beginning of each calendar month. In most countries, the system includes a so-called guaranteed maintenance allowance paid in the event of non-compliance with an agreement and which may be recovered from a defaulting parent by a national institution. In Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Norway and Sweden, there are opportunities to provide maintenance in case a parent living in isolation cannot pay, cannot pay the full amount or refuses to pay. Such institutions may belong to national administrations or be set up separately. At the same time, Estonia has a number of single parents at the top of the OECD countries, we have 42000 single parent families, and one in four children, or about 56000 underage children, grows with one parent. This is the kind of households that live the narrowest of all. The severity of the situation is illustrated by the fact that a third of them live below the limit of absolute poverty. There are currently around 9,000 demands for maintenance in enforcement proceedings, but this is far from giving a full picture, because a large number of single parents do nothing to recover child money, who do nothing about ignorance, who suffers from exhaustion, who, because of self-respect, who fear the former spouse of violence. There are other reasons, and those couples who break up in a human way and continue to communicate with each other, we are not talking right now. The fact is, thousands of children grow without the support of another parent. There are all sorts of clever tricks not to pay your child's money. Even for ten years, people are able to file unpunishedly, but in that time, the debt may grow very high. Until one day, the debtor himself will turn to the court to state: he has not been able to pay, but the financial situation has not improved. In that case, the debt shall be extinguished as the claims lapse. More and more often, all the ends disappear abroad. The Social Democrats are of the opinion that the maintenance requirement is not just a matter for parents. It's one thing to show an ex-husband his/her place when he/she misses his/her child. The other thing is to be in debt to the state. It is the duty of the state to ensure the protection of children's rights, recognising international agreements. Almost all European countries have institutions for collecting and paying up maintenance, as I have already said. Of course, we need a mechanism suitable for Estonia's circumstances. At the moment, the country does not even have a solid overview of the situation. Of course, the creation of the fund requires a proper analysis and money, as the previous speaker Laine Randjärv said. However, money is still spent on the endless work of the court, the police, and the bailiffs who deal with maintenance matters and often gets to the wind. Estonian children must not be less protected by virtue of their rights than children from other European Union countries. It is therefore necessary to establish a system of guaranteeing maintenance payments in Estonia, which would ensure that the money allocated to the child is received on time. The Social Democrats believe that the system should include the creation of an institution that would pay the parent raising the child on time and would require it from the parent who has the obligation to pay the child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U119	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Marika Tuus-Lauli!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U120	Ladies and gentlemen, The Centre Party Group will certainly be pleased that such a draft is in this Chamber today and perhaps we will also have a real opportunity to take this decision and move on with it. In addition to the Social Affairs Committee, the same issues have been discussed and even discussed more widely in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I have been a member of this committee and I can say that, unlike some other political parties, the Centre Party Group has always supported the creation of a fund and also the idea that the state should address this issue more broadly. Why did I ask my colleague, Margus Tsahkna, how could they not do this in seven years? Still, to clarify, this is also a matter of demagoguery. They didn't do it when they were in power for seven years, nor did they do it between 2003 and 2005. If this had been a very important issue for them, a priority, it would of course have been agreed with its partner. The answer that we could not agree with the Reform Party is not justified. And colleagues here on my left hand, Social Democrats! I understand that you have been in power for a little while, but still, it is also in your history that you have withdrawn your bill, although, yes, you have been quite active in this matter. So it cannot be justified that partners disagree. Let's just say there's no point in going to the coalition as a little brother if there's nothing we can do about it. The Reform Party has clearly stated that the debt of maintenance funds is a problem between two people; it is a reduced problem between private individuals. This has been said several times by the ministers of the Reform Party, and the voter will make his decision accordingly. This has been their clear position for years and they have not changed it, at least it is known that they do not support the creation of the Fund. But the Central Party Group will certainly support both the creation of a livelihood fund and the wider resolution of this issue. We know that the judicial system is currently unable to recover maintenance claims. About 500 procedures per year are out of the question, but 12,000 people are in line. It is very clear that the state needs to come to the aid now and deal with these issues. The state must first pay the allowance to a single parent, either a mother or a father, after which there is time to recover it. This is very logical and, as has already been said several times, such a system applies in a large number of countries. By the way, Latvia, for example, has gotten ahead of us again. In Latvia, these parents are paid 45 euros each month. It's a little money, but it's still something, and the person feels like the country's behind it. But we haven't done anything in 15 years. Of course, everywhere in Finland, Norway, Austria, Belgium, France, Denmark, Germany, Australia, there is a corresponding system. For example, in Finland, 118 euros are paid each month. So let's look at the world and I invite you all to vote in favour of this bill so that we can finally do it. The Centre Party supports the creation of a livelihood fund and, more broadly, the development of the whole system and the resolution of the problem of how to deal with court claims, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U121	Kaia Iva, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U122	I ask for the right of reply because the previous speaker made a direct reference to the activities of our party. I would like to say that...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U123	Kaia Iva, a good co-worker! The right of reply is when a member of the Riigikogu is appointed. Currently, Kaia Iva was not mentioned. I'm closing the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 773. Let us now go to the preparation of the final vote. Dear colleagues, since the draft decision 773 requires a majority of the members of the Riigikogu, before the final vote we will do a verification of the presence. 73 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 28. I will put the draft decision to the final vote 773. Please take a stand and vote. There are 61 members of the Riigikogu in favour, 9 against and no abstentions. Draft 773 of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union has been adopted as a decision. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U124	Let us move on to the next item on the agenda. The second point is the draft law amending the Commercial Code and the Law of Property Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 785. I ask Igor Gräzini, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U125	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about amending the Commercial Code and I will briefly remind you of the content of the draft. The idea is that the economic background and financial opportunities of very small start-ups have been extremely limited. Most of them probably do not manage any other capital than just an idea and any help is very welcome. We talked about the substance of the bill the last time. On Monday, 19 January, we prepared for a second reading in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, Salumäe and a number of other people were present, including Reet Silm, Managing Director of the Estonian Association of Liising Associations, Katrin Talihärm, Managing Director of the Estonian Banking Association, Annemari Õunpuu from Swedbank, Chairman of the Board of Directors Janek Pool, President of the Board of Directors of the Chamber and Member of the Board of Directors Arvi Pink. Two proposals were made, which I would like to draw attention to. The first suggestion is that...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U126	One moment, waitress! Let's try to keep it down in the hall, please. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U127	It doesn't sound like it. Thanks anyway! Thus, the first proposal is as follows: 'When presenting documents which do not comply with the requirements of subsection 2 of this section in whole or in part in a foreign language, the registrar shall be guided only by the documents or parts of the text submitted to him in the Estonian language. Businesses and third parties cannot rely on foreign language documents and parts of the text. ' The reason is perfectly understandable because the documents move into different registers, different places and different officials and we have a national language, i.e. we cannot expect to know the whole legal background in a foreign language. This consensual proposal has been fully taken into account. The second amendment made by consensus concerns the provisions of § 1 (2). The main point is that, as we know, the pledgeer and the pledgeer are jointly and severally liable in civil law; both parties have economic interests; where necessary, there may be a regress action. It has therefore been said that the person entitled to take the decision of the body is usually a pawn, but we also added a pawnier who also has an economic interest. This would, if possible, avoid recourse, based on the principle of economics. That's it. A second reading of the draft was proposed on the plenary agenda 27.01.2015, i.e. today. The Commission's unanimous proposal is to conclude the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U128	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thanks again! Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. The commission has proposed three amendments to the draft, and we will review them. All amendments 1, 2 and 3 from the Committee on Legal Affairs have been fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The proposal was to conclude the second reading of draft 785. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U129	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the chair to Vice-Chairman Marko Pomerants of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U130	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As you will remember, for four years, every possible amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure has been proposed. The draft of the Mailis Reps, or Centre Party, has been one of the driving forces to reach consensual changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure. However, since the work is very substantial, the government has brought before us the part of the draft that concerns, above all, arrest and citizens' fundamental rights in the event of arrest, as well as amendments relating to the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure. The first reading was already in November of the last calendar year, and this year in the Committee on Legal Affairs we have prepared a second reading of the draft. First of all, on 13 January, we had guests on the Commission, Heili Sepp, Head of the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice, and Lavly Perling, State Attorney General and Tristan Ploom, State Attorney. In particular, the concerns of prosecutors concerned how changes affect daily work and the burden and ability of workers to cope with them, especially arrests. We also had a discussion on case-findings, or indeed whether such a legislative amendment is necessary at all, because the question of the admissibility of evidence obtained as a result can be resolved through case-law. We also discussed changing the definition of the victim, namely whether it was procedurally justified to extend the definition. Predictably, I can say that the definition of the term 'bearer' we are dealing with in further proceedings on the draft. The talk I was talking about was, above all, at the meeting on 13 January. At its meeting on 20 January, the Committee on Legal Affairs dealt with a number of amendments and I will tell you some of them. I think the explanatory statement is thorough, and you'll get a good look at it yourself. I will not dwell on the first amendments, which are particularly specific to the text. Attention should be paid, in other words, to the fifth amendment which clarifies the subordinate nature of the investigation or proceedings, namely Tax and Customs Met and, in the case of the Defence Police Department, the law makes a clearer line between it, so far regulated by the Government of the Republic regulation. There are also amendments relating to the application of European law, and there are a number of them here, from Amendment 10 to Amendment 14. Perhaps another significant change in this draft, or let us say, the change in practice so far is proposal 17 concerning the misdemeanour procedure and the principle of its compulsory nature. In fact, according to the amendment, the principle is as follows: 'In the event of any manifestation of merit, an extra-judicial practitioner is obliged to initiate and carry out a misdemeanour procedure where, according to the conviction of the extra-judicial practitioner, the conduct is not of minor importance or there are no circumstances which preclude the misdemeanour proceedings provided for in § 29 of this Code. In the case of minor misconduct, there is no need to initiate misdemeanour proceedings and may be limited to the oral warning of the person who committed the act. " As can be seen in the explanatory memorandum, there are a series of such examples of real life. A simple example may be when a police officer notices that someone throws paper away next to a garbage can, making a record or a written procedure is not proportionate, because it is enough to call a person to order. Such examples can also be found in traffic, such as the lack of documents proving the right to drive. If a policeman can make it clear, using databases, that a man with gray head and glasses is Rein Lang, even though he doesn't have any documents, because everyone knows him that way, then they'll tell him that a good citizen, next time, try to keep the documents close to you, and not necessarily start drafting the protocol. When it comes to whether there is anything else involved, there is such a procedure in the current Code of Misdemeanour Procedure that, even in the case of an oral warning, the person subject to proceedings must explain his rights and be entitled to testify, since the Code does not provide for special arrangements. Even in the current oral procedure, in which certain circumstances were recorded, the written part will be abolished for this simple reason, in order to reasonably save resources. One important change is the number 20, and it concerns an increase in the rate of fines in urgent proceedings from 1300 daily base points to 13000 daily base points for legal persons and from 100 daily base points for natural persons to 200 daily base points. A single unit of fines is known to be EUR 4 and therefore, in the case of infringements where a higher sanction is provided for, an urgent procedure can be carried out. What is its impact in terms of financial or number of procedures, which must be demonstrated by practice? There are still some points for discussion in this draft, but since there were many changes, the Committee on Legal Affairs is proposing to the large Chamber today that the second reading of this draft be interrupted, that is what we all unanimously thought, and set the deadline for amendments as early as 30 January at 16 o'clock, in order to look again at the revised text and make the last changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U131	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. 22 amendments to this draft have been tabled, and we will review them. All the proposals have been made by the lead committee, the Committee on Legal Affairs, and they have been fully taken into account. Let's see one at a time: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22. The amendments have been examined. The commission's proposal was to interrupt the second reading of draft 770. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 770 amendments. 1 p.m. on January 30, 2004
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U132	Next is the second reading of Bill 757 of the Law on the procurement, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a speech from Reet Roosi, member of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U133	Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the preparation of draft law 757 on the procurement, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs for second reading on 12 January and 20 January. In addition to the members of the Social Affairs Committee, Ingrid Ots-Vaik, Head Specialist of the Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, was also invited. The Commission discussed the specific amendments to the draft 757, which amounted to a total of 16 amendments. The Head Specialist of the Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained the details. These were technical or linguistic clarifications. As a substantive explanation, I can mention that since s. a On 1 January, a new state fee law entered into force, then the state fee had to be applied to the new law. Among other things, national fees were rounded up to EUR 1 000 to the nearest EUR 5 and beyond to the nearest EUR 10. The Commission decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, which was a consensual decision; to propose the termination of the second reading, as well as a consensual decision; to send it to third reading when the second reading is completed, by 29 January 2015 and that decision was also consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U134	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. There have been 16 amendments to the draft, and we will review them. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Social Affairs, to be fully taken into account. Number 2 from the Social Affairs Committee, count fully; No 3 from the Social Affairs Committee, count fully; No 4 from the Social Affairs Committee, count fully; No 5 from the Social Affairs Committee, count fully; No 6 from the Social Affairs Committee, count fully; No 7 from the Social Affairs Committee, count fully; No 8 from the Social Affairs Committee, take full account; No 9 from the Social Affairs Committee, take full account; No 10 from the Social Affairs Committee, take full account; No 11 from the Social Affairs Committee, take full account; No 12 from the Social Affairs Committee, take full account; No 13 from the Social Affairs Committee, taken fully into account; No 14 from the Social Affairs Committee, taken fully into account; No 15 from the Social Affairs Committee, taken fully into account; No 16 from the Social Affairs Committee. We have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 757. Second reading is complete. The manager takes a one-minute break until 12.36 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U135	We will continue the debate on the items on the agenda. The next item is the second reading of Bill 731 of the Social Affairs Committee's Act on the Amendment of the Abortion and Sterilization Act. I would like to present the Chair of the Social Affairs Committee to Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U136	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I was entrusted with the draft law amending the Abortion and Sterilization Act and reporting to the Commission. The first reading of draft Act 731 amending the Abortion and Sterilization Act was completed on 4 December 2014 and the deadline for amendments was set at 18 December 2014. The Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and Priit Sibul, a member of the Riigikogu, made their proposals by the deadline for submitting amendments. The opinion on the draft was sent by the Estonian Society of Women's Doctors, the Estonian Sexual Health Association, the Estonian Student Association and the Estonian Council of Churches. A few days ago, we received another opinion from the Estonian Society of Medical Students. A large number of written submissions and comments were also submitted by private individuals on the draft. The Social Affairs Committee discussed draft Act 731 on the amendment of the Abortion and Sterilization Act before sending to second reading in two sessions: on 13 January and 20 January. On 13 January, we discussed the draft with stakeholders and a number of procedural decisions were taken and amendments were discussed. Representatives of the following organisations participated in the meeting: Family and Tradition Protection Foundation and Varro Vooglaid; Estonian Women's Doctors' Society and Doctor Kai Haldre; Estonian Sexual Health Association and Mairi Kaha; Child Interest Protection Koda and Ena Soodla; Estonian Parents' Association and Ivar Tröner; Child Protection Association and Martin Medar. Representatives of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu Katre Tubro and the Ministry of Social Affairs were also present. On 20 January, we reviewed the amendments once again and specified some of them that were previously undecided. Let me start with the decisions. The Committee on Social Affairs decided to send the draft to second reading by 27 January 2015 with a proposal to conclude the second reading. The Social Affairs Committee also decided that if the second reading of the draft was completed, the draft would be sent to the third reading by 29 January, i.e. this week. I will say once again a few words: what is the purpose of the proposed amendment and why we are dealing with such a change at all now? The aim is to bring the current law governing the termination of pregnancy into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. In June 2014, the Chancellor of Justice presented a very thorough analysis showing how the existing law conflicts with fundamental rights, such as the right of the woman to self-determination and the right to privacy and health protection. Cases where young people and parents have disagreed have also come to court, but there cannot be a solution, as it is not possible to force someone to interrupt pregnancy or force someone to give birth against their will in Europe of the 21st century. Anyone can imagine the emotions that can be created in a youth of courts and what a resource it requires of society. I can tell you that I've read the descriptions of the young people I've been through, and it's depressing. I would also like to remind you of some of the figures that we have discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs. Thanks to sexual education and suitable sexual health services for young people, the number of teen abortions in Estonia has fallen several times in the last 20 years. In 1996, 7000 girls aged 15 to 17 discontinued their pregnancy, compared to 191 in 2013. In 1992 588 young people under the age of 18 became mothers and in 2013 141 became mothers. Research and the daily practice of doctors are known that the more tools used to avoid unwanted pregnancy and the more exceptional the unwanted pregnancy of teenagers becomes in society, the more undesirable the pregnancy of young people who suffer from serious domestic conditions, who suffer from neglect and violence, and who do not really have parents or have any contact with their parents. Who, for example, should be asked for permission from a girl in a substitute home whose parents are alcoholics, but their parental rights have not been deprived of? Risky sexual behaviour, as well as other health-destructive behaviour, is most related to the level of education and social conditions of people. In very young people, unwanted pregnancy is more often associated with sexual violence. The purpose of the law is not to make it difficult for young people and their parents to communicate with each other; it cannot be done by a rule of law. The purpose of the draft law is to protect the health of young women. Any restrictions on medical treatment increase the risk of complications. Women's doctors and youth counsellors who attended our committee meeting stressed and talked about their experience that when there are trusting relationships in the home, young people come to the doctor with their parents and have no problem in informing the parent. At the same time, unfortunately, some parents are unable to cope with their obligations for various reasons, but the time of pregnancy of a young woman is not the moment when mistakes made over the years could quickly be corrected. The state also needs to think about minors whose parents are not so well equipped with the task of parenting. It is these pregnant minors who are at risk of being subjected to domestic violence. Let it be said from the outset that if a doctor suspects the violence committed, the adopted Child Protection Act obliges him or her to involve police, social workers and other specialists when necessary. As the women's doctors spoke in our committee, this is a common practice. As far as the Commission's discussions are concerned, I took some of the extracts from what Mr Vooglais said. Not everything can be read out because the committee meeting lasted for hours, but I have 20 minutes. Varro Vooglaid said: "We pointed out in our opinions that the current law is undoubtedly incomplete and should be amended, so we are not fundamentally opposed to amending the law. In our opinion, the law on abortion and sterilization involves a number of very fundamental problems, until it is contrary to the constitutional right to life and the equality of all people before the law, which has also been pointed out by Chancellor of Justice Allar Jõks. One of the main problems when we talk about parental consent is that, in our view, parental consent should not under any circumstances be interpreted as the right of parents to ask their underage daughters to have abortions. " Throughout this discussion, it seemed that this nonprofit organization was anti-abortion. Varro Vooglaid also said: 'If the current law allows such an interpretation that parents can, for example, ask their 16-year-old daughter to have an abortion, it is completely scandalous and should be changed as a matter of urgency. This is what we drew attention to as early as 2009 and these same principles are reflected in our proposal to improve the law, which is at the end of our position. We highlighted the principle that the voluntary requirement for abortion should mean that consent to it is from both the minor himself and at least one of his parents. ' But what we really have is that if the wishes of parents and young girls are different or the opinions are different, and today we have to go to court, then... yes. Then Varro Vooglaid said: 'Pregnancy is a natural anatomical process, it is not a disease, no matter how it has started, desired or unwillingly, and no one can be forced into abortion, precisely because it does not cure any disease'. In fact, the question was whether someone could be forced to give birth against their will. The Vooglais then repeated his view that this is something that you do not have to force anyone to do, because it is a natural anatomical process that goes on its own and asks what we are forcing a person who has become pregnant because of his actions. Mr Vooglaid stressed several times at our committee meeting that we still have to rely on a normal family and on the interest of normal families. But what's a normal family? It was supposed to be a traditional family. So the rest are different families. The volcanoes also said that if, for example, there is clearly a parent of drug addicts who are unable to express or understand any position at all, there must be some way to resolve this issue in order to reach a rational position. To this end, it is possible to imagine a variety of ways of doing so, even in an accelerated manner, of court proceedings involving different parties. The question arises as to who are the parties or what is my solution. The maggots felt that it was certainly not right for him to leave it up to a ladies' doctor to decide who does not know the minor girl at all and who does not know her parents, who does not know her fears, who does not know her problems. He also said that a ladies' doctor would not be responsible for the consequences at all. The fact that a gynecologist is more incompetent than everyone else around, the lady doctor's representative didn't agree in any way. In the course of his discussion, the Vooglais admitted that there are exceptional situations, but they should be resolved differently. At the same time, the question arises as to how to solve them. It's not like a ladies' doctor can ignore the law when he makes his decisions. He still has to follow the law. In the Commission, it was said several times that some provisions were still in exceptional circumstances, not the way the common principle is that in certain cases there might be another adult involved in the abortion process. The Vooglais in the Commission also said this: 'I think that clearly, if a 14-year-old girl, for example, is pregnant, it is a mistake. That girl's made a mistake. It would now be very regrettable if, because he does not involve his parents at all in resolving the matter, he would make another mistake that must be bitterly regretted. " The whole story was as if only a girl had made a mistake, but everyone else just watched. In the committee, Dr Kai Haldre said that if the law had to be based on a normal family and if Varro Vooglais was a normal family, he again did not understand whether there were any problems that the law was affecting. Haldre also said that if a woman is younger than 14, you must always think about who her partner has been, how she has become pregnant at all, and whether someone should be held accountable here. But I don't have much time left, so it's not possible to report everything to you. Ms Sibul proposed not to discuss the draft and to adopt amendments to it. He said, 'Looking at our overall legal space, it is disproportionate when we talk about young people. I have said so before, and already in 2009, I did not support these changes. ' But then he didn't support the changes that are currently in force, but they do. It's a logic error, or it was a glitch. The representative of the Child Welfare Association, who had been seriously familiar with the draft, said that we should talk about the differences. Consideration should be given to the maturity of the minor and the dangers posed by his or her parents, which means that these changes are important to bring them forward separately. He referred to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which stresses that the opinion of the child must be given appropriate weight in view of his or her age and maturity. With this in mind, adequate and up-to-date information and advice should also be provided to children. If a minor is able to give informed consent, the Union shall support the child's right to self-determination, health and autonomy. Liisa Pakosta spoke at length about the IRL's proposals and about the benefits of involving a social worker. For example, in Finland it had to be reduced... Isn't that right? You were talking about a social worker, Liisa. I will then read what was said in the committee. 'The Isamaa and Res Publica Group agree that the final decision will in any case be taken by the minor himself and that he or she does not need the consent of anyone, either the same or the other way. However, we are very concerned about what has been repeated here today several times, that there is, in fact, not always, but very often the distress of a young person behind juvenile cases of pregnancy. Kai Haldre brought it up just a moment ago, very vividly and based on scientific research. That is why we have proposed that we adopt a procedure similar to that in Finland where a minor who wishes to terminate a pregnancy and does not even wish to inform his or her parents would in any case be treated as a child in distress within the meaning of the new Child Protection Act. In any case, he or she should be dealt with by a social worker in order to determine what are the actual circumstances of the child, whether he or she is an incest victim, whether he or she is a victim of drugs, or whether he or she is a victim of human trafficking. All such things, for which social workers study for at least five years and acquire an invitation to identify these things. However, such skills are not included in general medical subjects. Our proposal is to ensure this in such a way that a single young person in distress is not overlooked, not left without the necessary help in the form of a social worker. And once again, a social worker does not, of course, decide for a young person whether to have an abortion, whether to give birth or what to do with his life, but deals with this young person within the meaning of § 24 (1) of the new Child Protection Act. " Here it was immediately explained that a pregnant youth may not be a child in distress. Dr Kai Haldre, representative of the Alliance for Child Welfare... Let's see. Viktor Vassilyev spoke thoroughly and also spoke to the Child Protection House and Foundation Appreciating Life. They said...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U137	Please, waitress, say the final word! Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U138	The final word is that we discussed the draft in depth in the Commission, and there were pros and cons. But, as I understand it, even the most evil critics have taken back their position because many amendments went into the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U139	We would also listen to the proposals of the lead committee for the Steinogram.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U140	I told you from the beginning, but I can repeat. The Committee on Social Affairs decided to send the draft to second reading by 27 January with a proposal to conclude the second reading. The Social Affairs Committee also decided that if the second reading of the draft was completed, the draft would be sent to the third reading by 29 January, that is to say this week.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U141	Thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! As the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group just arrived to extend today's session until the agenda is exhausted, I will put it to the vote. Attention! I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted. Please take a stand and vote. [[The protest votes in the hall.]] I interrupt the vote. Please, Kaia Eva, a procedural question! Please hand over the microphone to Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U142	Thank you. As far as I know, the committee's work starts at 2:00. This means that it cannot be put to the vote at all in this form. I believe that this proposal needs to be clarified. So, if it comes to the vote, I'm asking for at least two minutes of intermission to be able to clink it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U143	Thank you. I say that I cannot read out in any other way if it is written in a statement from the Group of the Estonian Central Party and there is no time here. If you want to take a break... Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U144	According to the Rules of Procedure, the work of the Tuesday hall can last until 2 a.m. So the President can put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U145	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U146	On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I ask for two minutes' break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-27_U147	Thank you. Since we can no longer vote on it today, because the session ends at 1 p.m., the intermission is now under way and it is also over for today's sitting. We will continue the debate tomorrow. Priit Sibul, Erki Nool, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, Andrus Saare and Tarmo Tamm are currently registered for speaking. I wish everyone a beautiful day! Closure of the sitting at 1:01 p.m.
