ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Good guests! Good morning. We will begin the session of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 11th working week. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have another question to make to Mr Ossinovski about access to medical care. As we know, there has been a lot of talk about this, and there are again cuts in healthcare. Doctor queues are increasing, but the budget of the Health Insurance Fund cuts the volume of specialist care services. Specialised medical care in general hospitals and the contractual volume will be significantly reduced. In addition, Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski commands that hospital staff be made redundant. If we look at the Health Insurance Fund's budget for next year, which was at first reading, and the option that came to second reading, we will see that in the meantime another EUR 7.5 million were cut. According to Urmas Sule, Head of the Hospitals' Association, if this is the case and such a budget is adopted, they will not be able to comply with the collective agreement that was concluded in 2014 and the availability of medical care will deteriorate significantly. Of course, all of this means that people in the country will no longer receive medical care; they will have to go to Tallinn or Tartu. In this regard, we have a number of questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U3	Thank you. Good fellows! I have adopted an inquiry on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 76 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 25.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U4	Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. The first item is the third reading of draft Act 71 on the amendment of the Public Information Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We can go to the final vote. I will put Bill 71 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 74 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. Draft Act 71 on the amendment of the Public Information Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U5	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda. This is the Prime Minister's overview of the state of R &amp; D and government policy in this area. Dear colleagues, let me introduce briefly the procedure before we go to this procedure. First, the Prime Minister's presentation is up to 30 minutes, then there are questions. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. After that, there are negotiations and we look forward to speaking with joy to all the representatives of the political groups. Only the representatives of the political groups can speak here. It is a great honour to invite Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas to the speech chair of the Riigikogu for a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U6	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Collaboration between universities and Estonian research institutions and entrepreneurs has been at the heart of this year, as has questions about the optimal organisation of the work of research institutions. There are ideas on how we can better link research to the needs of society and achieve more with limited resources. If we look at the development of science in recent years, Estonian scientists have achieved a great deal. The number of high-level researchers' publications, both relative and absolute, has steadily increased. In 2013, 1890 high-level publications were published, and last year their number increased to 2041. The context may be good to know that 574 publications were published at a high level in 2000. So growth has been impressive. Estonian researchers have been successful in participating in the European Union's Horizon 2020 Framework Programme; funding for researchers in Estonia is the largest in the European Union. 2013/2014. 213 doctoral students graduated in the academic year. Although it is a few dozen fewer people than in the previous academic year, it is still a higher figure than the average for the last seven years. And we have also managed to maintain sectoral diversity in science and higher education. As we stated last week in the Committee on Culture in the Riigikogu, both national sciences and technical and natural sciences are the basis and prerequisite for good higher education. According to the Estonian Research Council's launch and the survey of feedback on the funding of the Estonian research system, the functioning of the Estonian Research Information System and support for the preparation of international research cooperation projects were highly valued. The research agency's work in supporting the international competitiveness of Estonian science was satisfied, as was Estonia's R &amp; D and innovation policy. However, there has been little satisfaction with the institutional research support process and this needs to be given more attention by the research agency in the future. It cannot be accepted that in recent years investment in R &amp; D has fallen, especially at the expense of private sector R &amp; D investments. Estonian R &amp; D expenditure amounted to 1.44% of GDP last year. This is a decrease compared to 2013, when R &amp; D expenditure reached 1.71% of GDP. It is also lower than the European Union average of 2%, which we exceeded with the support of the private sector during the peak years. The intermediate rapid increase in private R &amp; D expenditure was mainly due to investments in the oil industry. However, investments in other sectors have not increased significantly to fill this gap. More R &amp; D investment is needed in all sectors to promote the economy. Looking at R &amp; D funding by category, it can be seen that labour costs remained the same in 2014 as in 2013, amounting to EUR 150 million. This decline is mainly due to the fact that investment in fixed assets has decreased by almost half. The basic funding for the research budget of the Ministry of Education and Research remained the same in 2015 as it was a year earlier. External resources related to the research budget are part of a small decline. At the same time, it should be taken into account that in 2014 the total amount of funding from both the core and external sources of the research budget was higher than in previous years. The grants granted by the Estonian state to finance R &amp; D investment in the business sector are already much higher than the European Union average. The role of the State is to contribute to the financing of projects that cannot be carried out by companies alone due to market failures. At the same time, the state cannot be the only R &amp; D donor in the business sector. The contribution of entrepreneurs will help to ensure that these investments are effective and better linked to the real needs of the economy. For projects in the business sector, as in the case of R &amp; D at all, quality is more important than quantity. The European Commission has pointed out that one of the problems with the implementation of innovation strategies in Europe is the dominance of the so-called winners' selection syndrome. This means that public support providers will allocate money to projects with a lower risk, with a higher likelihood of success, which could also be financed from private funding. While this will enable money providers to prove the success of their decisions, it will have a rather negligible impact in terms of promoting innovation. More risky projects, in particular those requiring public support, are, according to the Commission, not funded in such cases. Research and development are not just about research; development is also very important. The state cannot promote business development. And we must not overemphasise the importance of money, especially public money, for development. The main role of the state in supporting development is much wider. Above all, the state can create a state, and I dare say that it is the responsibility of the state to create framework conditions that enable companies to develop and create incentives for R &amp; D funding. This year, Estonia's accession to the European Space Agency on 1 September was an important step in creating these framework conditions. Accession of Estonia...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U7	Prime Minister, I am so sorry to you. Good fellows! Please keep it down in the hall. And if someone has a phone in normal mode, please turn it on to such a mode that it doesn't ring! Please respect the waitress and those who want to listen! Prime Minister, please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U8	Thank you. Estonia's accession to the ESA is the European Space Agency's English-language shortcut to support Estonian research institutions and companies, creating new opportunities for cooperation with each other and with a network of pan-European research organisations. I am pleased to note that thanks to the contribution of Estonian scientists, entrepreneurs and also public officials, Estonia has become a space state. We have new opportunities at our disposal that have the potential to complement our understanding of space as well as our life on Earth. Since the accession to the European Space Agency was preceded by an admission programme, we can already talk about the research and development achievements of Estonian companies in this field. During the period of residence between 2010 and 2015, 27 projects with a total volume of €5.1 million were implemented, of which 2/3 were business projects and 1/3 were research institutions projects. One of the most well-known projects and success stories of ESA's residence programme is the completion of the first Estonian satellite EstCube-1, which was partly supported by the ESA. The quality of the camera built on the satellite proved so good that the great international interest in the camera has now led to specific orders. Four new spin-offs have also been created as a result of the construction of the EstCube-1 satellite. Estonia's accession to the European Space Agency has supported the development of companies. According to operators participating in ESA projects, the Resettlement Programme has contributed to the implementation of new technologies, knowledge and experience in existing markets, as well as to the creation of new knowledge-intensive jobs, the emergence of new services based on development work and cooperation with leading European space companies and research and development institutions. One good example is Skeleton Technologies OÜ, which in the framework of the cooperation agreement with ESA has developed supercapacitors that can be used in the automotive industry. Participation in the ESA project has been a very important reference for the company and has helped to establish a customer relationship with large companies such as BMW, Audi, Continental and Bosch. In the case of R &amp; D, more needs to be said about specific enterprises and specific development projects, both successful and unsuccessful. The general figures and figures are based on concrete people, concrete actions that step-by-step lead to life, contributing to economic development. I think you will agree if I say that R &amp; D is not a linear process, with uncertainty and risks. When we start a new project, we do not know in advance how it will work, and people taking risks must in any case be recognised. You have to tell their story. It is the telling of specific stories that can inspire other companies to launch R &amp; D activities and to overcome the risks associated with it. For this reason, I would like to stress that the research and development projects of ESA's residence programme are a very good example of the potential of technologies developed for the space industry in our own terrestrial industry. Consider the use of these possibilities, how to multiply the indirect impact of a space agency project. This is a good example of how high-level R &amp; D cooperation will also help to mobilise additional investment. Good listeners! As is said, in addition to success stories, there is a clear need to learn from the mistakes made in the area of R &amp; D. Both investment and other decisions will inevitably entail risks and uncertainty, but this must not prevent us from undertaking new projects or make us fear new challenges. I now bring out the main challenges we face. Estonia's R &amp; D and innovation system must not be viewed in isolation; more and more attention must be paid to the international perspective. Science is international in nature. International Estonian entrepreneurship is also increasingly integrated into global value chains. This must be taken into account in the implementation of Estonia's research and development activities, where internationalisation remains an important challenge for the state. The report prepared by Gunnar Ok to the Research and Development Council, or TAN, stresses the importance of attracting foreign flights to Estonia, increasing the international mobility of students and researchers, and the joint marketing of Estonian universities and other higher education institutions on international markets. The report also proposes the idea of switching to English-language studies in doctoral studies and in certain areas also in master's studies. In 2014, 426 foreign researchers worked in Estonian research institutions. That's more than a year earlier, when we had 393 outside scientists working. Let me also remind you that in 2004 only 58 foreign researchers were employed in Estonian research institutions. From there, their number has increased every year. During the current funding period, the Ministry of Education and Research plans to invest some €50 million in internationalisation through the DoRa Pluss and Mobilitas Pluss programmes. In the previous academic year, the number of foreign students for the first time accounted for more than 5% of the total number of Estonian students, reaching almost 3000 students. This is certainly a major improvement compared to the previous academic year, when the number of foreign students was less than 4%. Ten years ago, their share was only 1% at the border, less than 1,000 students. According to a study carried out this year by Tallinn University of Technology, more than half of the students studying at TUT wish to stay in Estonia after graduation. At the same time, we certainly need a lot of effort to ensure that foreign students not only study in Estonia but also find a way to stay and thus contribute to the development of our economy and society. Our population is ageing and fewer and fewer young people are coming to the labour market. According to the competitiveness studies of both the World Economic Forum and the International Institute for Management Development in Lausanne, one of the main obstacles to the development of Estonian business is the shortage of qualified workers. Applying foreign students to our labour market would help to alleviate this problem in some respects. In order to increase the number of both foreign researchers and students, we need to further reduce bureaucratic obstacles. Important steps have already been taken to facilitate the entry and stay of highly qualified workers in Estonia. The Enterprise Estonia Foundation has launched the Work in Estonia programme. But more important, good listeners, is the attitude of people. An open and tolerant society certainly creates preconditions for researchers and students from other countries and cultural environments to come to Estonia, stay here and pursue a career here. I repeat, for the sake of clarity, that intolerance, intolerance and hatred against people of different backgrounds hinder the development of Estonian science, economy and society as a whole. In the case of internationalisation of research and development, it is also important to encourage the study of Estonian students abroad. One of the proposals for a report to the R &amp; D Council is that students going abroad to study may be granted targeted student loans. The state already has scholarships to support studies abroad, but it certainly needs to increase and diversify funding opportunities. The aim must be to create conditions that are not conducive to brain drain, but to "brain circulation." The experience and contacts gained through studies, internships and research abroad create the assumption that new ideas will come into Estonian science, higher education and entrepreneurship. Public spending on R &amp; D requires more reflection on the relevance of these investments to society and, of course, to the needs of the economy. As we discussed with the members of the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu last week, national sciences are important for promoting Estonia's development and maintaining its nationality. It is also important that there is a close link between science and entrepreneurship. Business organisations have pointed out that public R &amp; D activities of an applied nature are often research-driven rather than business-driven. Limited cooperation may also include public R &amp; D expenditure financed by the business sector. They have reached over EUR 6 million both in 2013 and 2014. This is a major improvement compared to the previous years, when they remained at the 4 to 5 million borders. At the same time, there is a great deal of room for improvement in cooperation between companies and research institutions in Estonia. And when assessing these costs as a percentage of the total costs of research institutions, it must be acknowledged that Estonia is well behind the averages of both the European Union and the OECD. The number of full-time engineers and researchers working in the business sector has also decreased. In 2011 and 2012 there were a total of 4500 full-time researchers and engineers in the public and business sectors, one third of whom worked in business. In 2014, the number of full-time engineers and researchers was a few hundred smaller and came first and foremost from a decline in business. Demand for highly qualified workers is both substantive and, of course, symbolic. On the one hand, it expresses a desire to develop activities that are knowledge-based, on the other hand, it signals the subsequent growth of scientists and engineers that it is worthwhile to work at and invest in education. The strengths and weaknesses of the R &amp; D &amp; I system are reflected in the annual Innovation Union Scoreboard prepared by the European Union. In 2015, we were there in 13th place, as we were in 2014. However, despite maintaining this place, we were placed among moderate innovators instead of the current group of innovation followers. Inevitably, we have to ask how we can encourage innovation more. In the case of Estonia, the lack of classical research and the work of research institutions and the limited resources invested in this field are not an obstacle. The main challenge is to promote innovation in medium- and small-sized enterprises. This concerns innovation in the wider sense of product, process and marketing innovation. Estonian companies need the ability to create new innovative products, sell them, including export. It should be stressed that innovation is not only research-based but also more generally knowledge-based. Steve Jobs has once said that innovation does not depend on how much money you have for R &amp; D. I quote: 'When Apple developed Mac, IBM spent at least 100 times more on R &amp; D. It is not about money, it is about people how they are managed and whether they get the point. ' Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Estonian companies should think more like Steve Jobs in the early years of Apple. The key to business success is investment in people's lives, how we manage people and motivate them to implement new innovative solutions. It is important to get rid of the idea model, which sees public support as the main source of innovation. Businesses also need to get rid of support dependency. You gotta be smart. The focus must be on the spread of knowledge-driven innovation, and above all on people's work. Above all, a behavioural change is needed. The popularization of science among the new generation will contribute to a change of mind and behaviour. Inventors' village Lotte, Ahhaa Centre and TV series Rocket 69 inspire many to become engineering, inventor, or scientist in the future. Moreover, these activities help many to understand the nature of R &amp; D and innovation. But with future engineers, future artists will also benefit. And as we well know, their parents are also studying with their children. The government contributes to innovation by promoting a variety of higher education and research. Different areas of education are important for the government from computer science to product design. The difference enriches. As we discussed last week in the Committee on Culture, successful innovation is often multidisciplinary. The secret to Apple's success is the ability to combine engineering solutions with aesthetic design. Mait Müntel, a doctor of physics, has created language learning software and launched a start-up company called Lingvist. Kristo Käärmann, founder of TransferWise, a financial technology company, worked as professor Jaak Vilo's master's student in data mining in bioinformatics. By means of an entrepreneurial growth strategy, the government is contributing to a change of mindset and behaviour. This year, step by step, new structural measures have been launched that will contribute to the development of the knowledge and knowledge-based economy. In the new funding period, the emphasis will be on comprehensive solutions to support new innovative business models, not so much on investment in technology and infrastructure. The importance of financial instruments in relation to direct payments has increased. In the case of grants, the risk of deadweight is much higher than in the case of financial instruments. This year it was decided to support seven T &amp; D centres up to 2020. The aim of the State is for these centres to be self-sufficient after the end of this funding period. In the European Union, a new strategy for innovation based on smart specialisation has been put in place for the new period of structural resources, which also underpins the growth strategy of Estonian entrepreneurship. According to this strategy, the use of information and communication technologies must increase in different areas, including new medical technologies and services and more efficient use of resources. The smart specialisation strategy will be implemented through the actions of the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, with a total volume of 144 million euros. Overall, the EU structural funds supporting innovation and R &amp; D represent more than half a billion euro up to 2020. However, capacity growth also requires changes in education and science. The report commissioned by the R &amp; D Council finds that the current network of higher education institutions and research institutions is too fragmented and needs consolidation given Estonia's size, competitive position and economic sustainability. The report also considers that greater cooperation between universities is needed to promote knowledge and technology transfer. One solution could be to create a single company for its development. Higher education and research institutions must inevitably move towards closer cooperation and mergers, as it must be understood that Estonia is small and resources are limited. Understandably, specific consolidation and joint action models can be discussed on the basis of the private and public interests of the parties. But the initiative and debate on joint action must be welcomed, rather than trying to suppress it in the bud. There's always reason to look for ways to do things better. This is also the essence of R &amp; D. Dear Riigikogu! Estonian scientists and Estonian science have been successful and we have been able to see new achievements every year. But there is certainly much room for improvement in the internationalization of Estonian science. More foreign lecturers and students are needed in Estonia. The opportunities for Estonian students and researchers to gain experience in international top universities should also be encouraged. Science is not made just for the sake of science itself. Researchers must also be able to demonstrate a broader contribution to the development of both the economy and society as a whole in their work. Closer cooperation between businesses and researchers is essential for the development of a knowledge-based economy. Knowledge and technology transfer must be encouraged. Changes in the rules of the game, as well as in the financing models, are a prerequisite for these objectives to be met. Above all, however, we need changes in the thinking patterns and behaviour patterns of all the parties involved. Albert Einstein has said that changing the mind template is harder than splitting an atom. I think we can do this together. I thank the Riigikogu for its good cooperation so far in supporting research and development and innovation, and I wish us all the strength for the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U9	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have questions too. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U10	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! On Saturday, many countries in Paris signed a very important document that is really necessary. But this decision means bringing oil shale energy to zero and practically bankrupt in Ida-Virumaa. I think about jobs in this regard. My question is how Estonian science should support Ida-Viru County so that the crisis that hits it is milder.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U11	Thank you. That's the right question. Indeed, as you say, this is a historic agreement that was joined by 197 countries, or almost the whole world. Among these 197 were very small island states in some warm seas, whose king came to Paris, and the list ended with China, India, the United States, and other very large countries. Everyone was present and agreed that in a hundred years' time, it would be possible to live in the world if the temperature did not rise too much. It's a historic, very important deal. At the same time, many have asked me whether this ambitious climate agreement has any negative impact on the Estonian economy, especially the oil shale industry. I dare say that the Estonian oil shale industry will be able to succeed in the future, but this requires investment in research, development and innovation, which is the main theme of today's presentation. The use of fossil fuels in Estonia is of course the main source of oil shale, but despite this, emissions in Estonia have decreased by just over 52% compared to the 1990 reference year. This is mainly due to the ability of the oil shale industry to invest in new technologies. I will see the potential in the future to reduce the ecological footprint of the oil shale industry with investment, while at the same time becoming more economically competitive and cost-effective. We know that when oil is made from oil shale, each piece of stone gives three times as much energy as it burns in the oven. It is also innovation, and it is also investment in R &amp; D. So this climate agreement forces us and our oil shale industry to invest in research, development, innovation, but I believe that, precisely because of these very good technologies, the oil shale industry will be able to compete in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U12	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Prime Minister, for this presentation. But I have to say, I'm a little confused by your optimism in financing matters. You almost claimed that public funding in Estonia is well-off compared to the European average. At the same time, we know that in the 'Knowledge-based Estonia 2014 According to the data of the Estonian Research Council, Professor Niinemets, who will be present here today, has highlighted quite drastic downward numbers from 2014 to 2011. In the state budget for the coming year, the volume of research investment will decrease by 7%. Our amendments were not taken into account by the government. How do you explain this contradiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U14	Thank you. I would be very pleased if amendments were to be proposed to increase the funding of key areas in such a way that the source of coverage is technically acceptable. As far as I am aware, however, the main source of the amendments was the proposals that undermine the budgetary balance and which Parliament must not do in accordance with the laws in force. Nevertheless, I think that we are actually in the same boat when we think about how to find additional resources for research and development. I will explain this prima facie conflicting claim. Firstly, as regards Estonia's target of 1% of GDP, it is true that it has not been met. I mean, public money. However, this 1% is much more ambitious than in the European Union on average, and that is why we are already ahead of the European average when we have not achieved this ambitious target enough. It's as simple as that! It is simply that we have set ourselves higher targets than other European countries have on average. We have rather wanted to compare ourselves with the Nordic countries. We have believed that investing in R &amp; D can succeed. That is why I believe that we must have these higher goals in the future. Secondly, as regards the volatility of funding, my recommendation is always to look behind the numbers. And so we see this I have said many times, your groupmates have also asked me about this in the course of my inquiries and Question Time, that a very large part of the volatility is due to the change in the euro money period. One period is just coming to an end, the second period has not yet started properly, and that is why there is a certain decline, but this decline is not permanent. And the third reason I referred to in my speech, and which also concerns me, is that if, thanks to investments in the oil shale sector, Estonian R &amp; D investments went to see that hundreds of millions of euros of private money were raised and really invested in R &amp; D, it was, of course, the money of Eesti Energia and other oil shale processors, then other sectors have not been able to keep up with the oil shale industry. That is why our private R &amp; D funding depends on the investment plans of Eesti Energia, VKG or any third oil shale company. Of course, we would like this investment to be more even, so that there are other sectors that invest in R &amp; D.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U15	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U16	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! I want to ask you about the relationship between science and the economy. We know that our economy is still, even when compared to our southern neighbours. We also know that there was a very large recession in Estonia a few years ago. It is well-known that more money should be channelled into science to come out of the economic crisis and more researchers should be involved. We've talked a lot about this, but unfortunately, that's not the case. More young people should be involved in science, even with this, we have a poor record. Why have we not wanted or been able to follow such basics in life? And here's what I'm going to ask you: if we were talking about GDP, would you still mention the percentage of GDP we're going to go to science?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U17	Thank you. I have already said that, compared to GDP, this year this amount is 1.44% of GDP, which is exactly what is going on in R &amp; D. Public expenditure is 0.81% of this. Our official objective, which we have not achieved so far, but which we must work for and which, as has been said, is 1% more ambitious than the European Union average. In the European Union, there are about just four or five countries that contribute 1% of GDP to R &amp; D. If we can do this, we are among the first five in Europe in this area too. So it's worth the effort anyway. Your assessment of the state of the Estonian economy compared to the southern neighbours, however, makes every person who knows a little bit about the economy raises his eyebrows. We know quite well that, compared to both Latvia and Lithuania, our economy is still several years ahead, and we do not have to be ashamed of our position. Estonia's wages, pensions, people's incomes in general, the volume of the Estonian economy in absolute terms, in all these figures, we are far ahead of Latvia and Lithuania. What is the reason why the Latvian and Lithuanian economies have grown a little faster this year? I have analysed this very thoroughly and have only discussed it yesterday with the Prime Ministers of Lithuania and Latvia. The general feeling is that Latvia and Lithuania will catch up with us in a few years' time in the sense that they will be entering the same cycle of development. Estonia has also been ahead of its southern neighbours in the past with a slight shift, and we also came out of the crisis much faster. So there are very logical reasons for this. At the same time, the Latvian and Lithuanian economies have the same concerns as the Estonian economy. We need to talk about them honestly, too. The Estonian economy currently depends too much on domestic consumption, it is unsustainable. The reason is that people's wages have increased very rapidly and are forecast to grow next year, just as pensions do. This has certainly contributed to domestic consumption. However, I am concerned about how our exports are going. I have said that absolutely every member of the government, and indeed Parliament's delegations, should do everything possible to open doors to Estonian entrepreneurs across the border. There's a lot to depend on it. In recent weeks, we have managed to improve the situation in the agricultural sector, which is currently in crisis, thanks to the fact that an agreement has finally been signed with the People's Republic of China, which provides an opportunity to send Estonian agricultural products to the Chinese market. If it starts, it will be immediately felt in economic figures as well. In any case, efforts must be made to achieve this. By linking your question to today's main issue, I would like to say that I very much agree that Estonia's main option is not to have this competitive advantage, which both we and, to a lesser extent, Latvia and Lithuania are beginning to disappear quietly. We don't want it back. This competitive advantage is called cheap labour. In the macro picture, cheap labour is like a nice phenomenon. As a production input, cheap labour is excellent as it contributes, among other things, to foreign investment. But do we want to be a country with cheap labour? I don't want to. We want things to be done smartly and people to get paid for it. Let us not yearn for a situation where Latvia and Lithuania have severalty percent lower incomes than we do and they must try to come after us. Rather, let us rejoice if Latvia and Lithuania are doing well, but let us focus on how to use smart technologies, research and development to ensure that the Estonian economy continues to succeed in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U18	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U19	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! You have indicated on several occasions in your presentation that private investment in R &amp; D has decreased. But I still want to explain once again why the state's support for science will decrease by 7% in next year's state budget, as academic Niinemets points out. Why is science not a priority for your government?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U20	You did hurt us with that last sentence. On the contrary, we have confirmed the long-term objectives, and there will certainly be a very serious dispute when drawing up a country's budget strategy about how to get additional funds into the budget. If you take directly the state budget allocations that come from the pocket of the Estonian taxpayer, these figures have not decreased. They remain the same. It should not be satisfied, but it is not true that these amounts have decreased. As I said, European funds will soon be a major source of current decline and growth. They also go through the state budget. If European action is taken, you will see that the overall picture is milder and has not decreased. But that won't help us very much today. In fact, we still need to find common sources of public spending in addition to the missing 0.19%. This 0.19% is nothing mysterious; it is about EUR 40 million a year. If we move gradually and year by year in this direction, this is not an impossible task for Estonia. If we can guarantee that the political parties in the Riigikogu, including opposition parties, say that yes, that is a priority and that it must be invested there, then I consider it possible in the coming years. At the same time, I stress that, of course, we must be ambitious. Of course! But let's not take the attitude that we're having a very bad time with everything. Most of the countries of the European Union are far more prosperous than we are. If we know that we are clearly above average in this area in the European Union, and we have set ourselves the goal of reaching the top five in terms of research funding, let us realise that it will take time to get to the top five. We are going there, and I am absolutely sure that we will achieve this, just as we have achieved in our time an increase in defence costs to 2%, with which we are at the absolute top of the European Union and even above the top five.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U21	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U22	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! The views of the report commissioned by TAN have given rise to much discussion and dissatisfaction in the autumn. The Committee on Culture has made a critical assessment of this and that is why I would not go into detail in this area at the moment. The Prime Minister cannot, of course, be responsible for the conclusions of this report, but TAN is an advisory body for the Prime Minister. I was moved to ask the question by your declaration that the difference is enriching. It would be good to know exactly how its entire body will be formed, who will elect its members, and how it has happened that there is no humanitarian and creative representative of the TAN. In my opinion, the principle that the difference enriches has not been followed when selecting the composition of the TAN. So there is the danger that the advice given to the Prime Minister is too one-faced or one-sided. For example, there are no women in the field of humanitarian science. I believe that we have capable women scientists whose expertise and experience in managing people in the Council would certainly be at the cost of gold. Are you ready to change the fossilized way of thinking?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U23	Thank you. Of course, that is a very good question. First of all, I think that the Prime Minister will not be able to escape responsibility in any area. I think that everything that happens in this country is more or less also the prime minister's responsibility. And frankly, for the fact that the leadership of TAN is discussing how the Estonian scientific landscape could become more competitive, I am not afraid to be responsible either. I think it's important. In my opinion, this whole process must be inclusive of the public. And there is nothing wrong with having a cultural committee or an organisation critical. We need to discuss how best to do this. But my message today was, let's not kill this discussion right now. Actually, this isn't Gunnar Ok's personal report. This is a report commissioned by the Scientific and Development Council, which was prepared by more than 30 people, who are very familiar with the Estonian scientific landscape. Certainly, these 30 people are not one hundred percent, and there was also a dispute in TAN over several points. But that's the way to go. I stress once again that the essence of science is to determine how things can be done better. If we were to take the attitude that has sometimes excelled, that it has always been done, and it has always been so, why start doing things differently now, we will always do what has always been, and that is the opposite of science. The nature of science is the opposite: to say how better can be done. In this sense, we are also open to discussing how to advance the internationalisation and competitiveness of Estonian science. I think that the report is not only about consolidating the network; there are also plans to bring foreign top teachers to Estonia; there are plans to cover the costs of living and studying abroad for Estonian students. It provides details on how to consolidate support services in higher education institutions. This is all very important and all this must be dealt with. Now the question of the composition of the TAN. I am pleased to announce that women are also part of the TAN: the Minister of Enterprise is a member of the TAN post office. So women have been attending Council meetings. This change has taken place lately. Previously, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure belonged to the Council, but by my decision, TAN became a member of the Minister for Enterprise, who is known to be a woman. But, of course, I'd like to see any amount that I'm in charge of a better gender balance. It is also a concern that the proportion of women among scientists is lower, perhaps for this reason scientists have not named TAN as their representatives. As far as the formation of the TAN is concerned, TAN is a rather traditional council, with people mostly based on a post. This, unlike the e-Estonian Council, where I was based purely on my own initiative, yes, frankly, I myself chose people who, in my opinion, have the ability to think abstractly. I just invited these people to the council, no one's there by the post. There are some representatives of entrepreneurs in TAN, some of them have been mentioned by business organisations, we have the President of the Chamber of Commerce and now, as a new member, the CEO of the Estonian Employers' Confederation, as well as a few entrepreneurs whom I have personally invited because they have come into contact with these topics. It includes the President of the Estonian Academy of Sciences, who has been there according to his post, and this has been good practice, and I think it is very right that this is the case. Rectors of the major universities of TAN also belong. Whether there could be people in some other areas in the future, I can't say. Perhaps it is a problem that there are more real scientists among the rectors of universities. The President of the Academy of Sciences is also a real scientist. If there are any good proposals to be included in the Council, I will be open to them. I absolutely don't rule out changes. But yes, such a composition has developed mostly because all these institutions have been free to name who they want to see in TAN. I haven't quite done enough to order you to listen, you have a man to be president of the Academy of Sciences, but a woman must come to the council. That is something I have not set a separate goal for myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U24	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U25	Thank you. Prime Minister, thank you for your presentation. I am pleased to note that joining the European Space Agency has brought fresh air both to our research and development activities and to research-intensive entrepreneurship. It is good to say that years ago this process began here in the Riigikogu. As a member of the Committee on the Environment, I am also aiming at what happened in Paris. This is not so much about solving internal problems, I mean oil shale energy, but precisely about the opportunities that open up outside. I believe that this ambitious document provides the basis for reviewing our research and development in this area and, specifically, for entrepreneurship, great opportunities open up outside Estonia. Shouldn't we properly dissect all of this and take it into account in our plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U26	It turned out so right! If the world has agreed on a deal for 197 countries, then it can be said that the world has agreed, no matter how big it sounds, that much more nature-saving technologies need to be transferred, this clearly means a window of opportunity for R &amp; D. Yesterday I met Estonian entrepreneurs in Vilnius. There were companies that have invested in Lithuania. Lithuania is known to be one of the main target markets for Estonian investment. An entrepreneur told a very interesting story there. They develop technology in Estonia, which is a long step forward from heat pumps in order to make better use of Earth's thermal energy. The most common heating costs, which each of us has to do as a private consumer, can be brought down hard and can also save nature. This innovation is being carried out in Estonia and there are probably other examples. As far as the oil shale industry is concerned, it is considered to be the most polluting area in our environment. In itself, it is factually accurate, it is in no way derogatory; it is simply factually accurate. But it is also a sector where investments are the most effective in improving the situation and obtaining the most savings. It's the same with transport. With regard to the oil shale industry, however, one comment: there are countries where coal heating is very common and where the use of new technologies based on oil shale, which, if it is fossil fuel, would actually generate huge savings. So this thing isn't so black and white that oil shale is automatically bad when we talk about climate and environment. There are certainly opportunities to invest significantly in improving the environment in the oil shale industry and, if we look at who has contributed most to environmental projects, the total amount of Estonian oil shale companies is in tens of millions, if not hundreds of millions. So in any case, there are opportunities. And I agree that such an ambitious agreement in Paris will provide an opportunity for innovation. We see this as an opportunity in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U27	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, thank you for your presentation. Lots of numbers, quotes from here and there, nice expressions, Einstein's name even sounded. That's a lousy story. But at the same time, academician Niinemets and many of his colleagues, whom I have also spoken to personally, have said that the government, under your leadership, has made a wild move in the financing of science. Let us recall the problem of funding the scientific journal Horizon, which remained unresolved. Are academic Niinemets and many of his colleagues, including the President of the Academy, incompetent idiots who don't know what they're talking about or where the truth is?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U29	I hope that the Riigikogu stenographists will put a black sticker on your expressions. I certainly do not want this use of words to go down in history, even if it has sounded by asking a question. We're talking about prominent members of the Academy of Sciences. I certainly do not agree with this expression, and I do not think that you, too, were simply a failed wording. Undoubtedly, the opinion of the President of the Estonian Academy of Sciences and other academics is very serious. In fact, together we think very seriously about how to step by step to reach the target of 1% of GDP in public spending. This is not a matter of a one-year budget; it is a question of the long-term view reflected in the country's budgetary strategy. And we need to be prepared to contribute 1% of GDP to the sector, even if these temporarily reduced euro money are still somewhat smaller. Of course, there is no country in Europe that does not receive support from the euro at all. There are various measures that also finance very wealthy, highly developed countries. So Estonia will certainly also be able to obtain euro money in the future, even if our gross domestic product per capita grows above the magical 75% of the European Union average. And once again, when it comes to funding, you have to look behind the numbers. Yes, we have not been able to increase funding in this area as a percentage of GDP, but to say that there has been a decrease in absolute terms is incorrect in the sense that it does not take account of the volatility of euro amounts. If we consider that the cash flows for one period have ended and the second period has not yet begun, then we will understand this reason well. But once again, I am quite certainly ready to discuss where to find the money to reach 1% of public spending in a sustainable manner. It's almost 40 million, which is not a mysterious task for many years. However, in addition to this figure, it is at least as important to me what we do exactly, how we can guarantee that this money is targeted at people and will be used most effectively, that it really adds opportunities. And, as I have already said, investment must also be made in projects that are risky. Not only should the state invest in secure research projects.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U30	Good participants in the debate. I want us to respect the people we ask and respond to us. Please, we are also respectful in formulating questions when we mention one or the other instance, institution or person. Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U31	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! In Estonia, 95% of R &amp; D is accounted for by about 50 companies and, in turn, the oil industry accounts for a large part of it with its investments. Unfortunately, this means that the majority of Estonian companies invest very modestly in research development. If we want productivity to grow and wages to increase, it is very important that companies contribute more to R &amp; D. What can the state do to encourage businesses? I also propose a solution. Would it make sense for the state to co-finance information and technology audits in companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U32	I think that the biggest development leap could come from this as well as medium-sized enterprises in Estonia, giving them the opportunity to use research. In the world's terms, they are, of course, tiny enough companies. When we look at large corporations in the world, there are dozens of employees, even hundreds of thousands, in corporations in the automotive industry, the electronics industry, etc. Of course, such corporations can support research institutions themselves and make them work at their own hands. This is a whole other world! We do not have such powerful companies and it is relatively logical that the biggest contributor to research and development and its financing is one of the largest companies in Estonia. At the same time, I believe that in addition to the 50 companies that are large in Estonian terms, medium-sized in world terms, we should also have access to R &amp; D by medium-sized and world-scale companies. If we take whatever field, be it the food industry or something else, we produce a lot of things in Estonia, such as cosmetics and building foams, then these companies obviously need the technology they use to be better and better. In this case, more and more innovative and smarter products could be sold, even with higher added value and more expensive ones. What has been done to enable these companies to access scientific achievements? One concrete example is innovation shares, which can help smaller companies. Or the same thing I think is relatively specific, like an IT audit. All of them can be talked about, but I think that fundamental or clear progress would be made if research institutions offered their own formats, how entrepreneurs can access the knowledge of these people. It is not real that in Estonia, medium-sized enterprises are able to pay researchers and research teams permanently. This isn't real! Let us be realistic and think about the categories that apply to us. Of course, the use of R &amp; D achievements in smaller companies will also be facilitated if companies cooperate with each other. I briefly called it. We have all kinds of clusters, the shipping industry in Saaremaa has jointly built a pool where ships can be tested. After all, it is actually innovation and it will help these companies to sell their ships better and more expensive. This type of action can certainly be supported by the state in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U33	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U34	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good Prime Minister! In your speech, you mentioned very strongly that intolerance and hatred hinder the development of Estonian science and so-called progress. Please, if you say something like that in your speech, maybe you can also give examples of what cases of fixed alienation or intolerance have affected the development of Estonian science.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U35	I guess I shouldn't be surprised that this is the subject that is most dear to you in the field of science. The area that your party is dealing with tends to be limited to this issue. But when it gets more serious, every time someone takes the floor and says that in order not to get beat up in Estonia, they can wear the uniform of a Defence Forcesman, they create a foreign rage. If you look at your own quotes in journalism, social media and the Riigikogu verbatim, you do not need to look with a glass to find a position that is detrimental to the Estonian economy, research and development and, more generally, to the cohesion of society. If we are rejecting very intelligent people who are of another nation, it is nothing more than pure stupidity. We should be open and actually attract smart people to teach to Estonian universities, to study at Estonian universities and to work in Estonia's successful companies, not to do everything to make them feel uncomfortable here in Estonia. Fortunately, there are not many concrete examples, and I hope that there will not be many, but there will be many. This is not entirely without reason that foreign investors also turn to the Prime Minister and express concern. Once again, I stress that we are not so many in Estonia that we can show hatred and intolerance to the people who live here. We have to keep everyone, even if they are slightly different from what each of us is.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U36	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U37	Thank you, manager. Good Prime Minister! In your speech, you referred to the European Commission's assessment that both European and Estonian science suffers from mediocrity. One of the reasons you have brought about is that politicians who share public money do not dare to take risks. My question to you is this: could your government give examples to the contrary? Have you made risky decisions about distributing public money to science to get science out of mediocrity? And please avoid, in your reply, suggesting that Estonia has joined the ESA.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U38	You yourself gave a very good hint of this, which is a very clear example of a first-hand, risky decision. In general, however, funding for research grants and all kinds of projects is not decided at government level. This is not a political issue, it is a separate body that makes these decisions. You formulated your question in such a way that the Commission considers European and Estonian science to be mediocre. I think it's a very strong exaggeration or a misinterpretation. That is certainly not the case. Rather, by generalising the picture, the Commission simply pointed out that we are all people and that those who decide on public money have a responsibility. And then the boss or the Member will come and ask where the money went. And if that money went wrong, try to explain. I will give a simple example of an area that many have encountered: the use of public money in start-ups as a risk investment. In the case of the Development Fund, everyone expects that all the money invested by the Development Fund will come back ten times. But if it were such a foolproof set of funds, then state intervention wouldn't be necessary at all. The whole point of this is that if the state intervenes in any area by making additional investments, it must channel the money to a place where there is no 100% guarantee that the money will come back ten times. This is all this logic and the same is often the case in R &amp; D, where, of course, the picture is much wider. There is quite a lot of science, the achievements of which cannot be set at monetary value immediately or in the short term, but which still makes society richer. It's not appropriate to measure it with a cash number. It must be borne in mind that there is still a great deal in R &amp; D that is not directly at the service of the economy, although we have emphasised the latter well and that is very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U39	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! Estonia is relatively rich in mineral resources. We have defined several unexploited deposits, including granite stone deposits in Maardu and phosphorous deposits in Virumaa. Do you see the economic need for these deposits to be used for the next 20 years and our scientific and technical readiness to do so? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U41	We had this topic, if I remember correctly, whether last week or last week, raised by the Minister of the Environment, at the meeting of the Cabinet. The overall attitude was to examine the possibilities of using the wealth in the ground, and also to assess our technological level of extraction so that the environmental impact would not cost much more than the economic benefits. I admit that I am not such a specialist in this field that I would dare to say whether in 20 years the mining of new mineral resources within the meaning of some specific Estonia is done in such a way that the footprint of the environment is small enough. It's a lot better than me to do that, and it's my business as a decision maker to rely on their opinion. But in order for these opinions to emerge, we need research. These studies need to be financed so that they can be dealt with systematically and thoroughly. We have done all of this, but we need to go into more details, and then, just as wise people do, decide not on the surface of conjecture and emotions, but on the surface of knowledge. That way we can also answer your question. I hope that we will be able to discuss this further, whether, for example, mining granite or phosphorite or other quite important mineral resources in Estonia could ever be practical enough to prevent the environment from suffering.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U42	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! In your presentation, you pointed out that a change in thinking and behaviour is essential. At the same time, you referred to the fact that the Estonian educational network is too fragmented. My question comes about our conservative education. It is known that to succeed in research and development, we must teach our young people, our children as best as possible. I am particularly concerned about the relationship between vocational education and upper secondary school education and, on the other hand, about the so-called sustainability of the quality of higher education. We know that we should be internationalising in higher education, but how can we move forward with specialization in vocational education so that entrepreneurs can continue with professionals? After all, we must see the picture as a whole and realise that it must be done largely at the expense of gymnasts, upper secondary schools. What is the picture in this area before you by 2020?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U44	Before that photo of 2020 I'm going to look into the past for a moment. I remember that ten years ago, improving the reputation and quality of vocational education was a clear priority for education policy. In 2006 and 2007, it was decided to make very large investments, both in terms of modern living conditions and in order to be able to teach the professions that are really relevant in order to have equipment and other necessary. If we compare to ten years ago, we've made a very big leap. I have visited vocational education and training institutions and I know their working principles ten years ago and now. The change is also visible to those who are not there directly every day. Do we have any reason to continue working in the future to maintain and develop vocational education and training? Of course it is. It is, in itself, very good that more and more vocational training institutions have effective cooperation with the private sector. The private sector has a very clear interest in getting professionals in their field and they are also willing to finance either equipment procurement, faculty, programs, scholarships. It's been getting more and more noticeable. What is the state of play in 2020? I think that this is a question that should be asked by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I don't want to invade the Ministry of Education too much. But generally, as with science, cooperation with practitioners is one of the key points for vocational training institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U45	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U46	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! Here's the question. Minister Ligi said that the concentration of teachers is linked to the fact that biological ageing is taking place. Scientists, too, have not yet invented the elixir of life so that they too, unfortunately, age. Looking at a bit of a plantbed, such as science, precision science, land science, we can see that nobody grows much but anyone. There are very few admissions to the Faculty of Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics. If you go further, there is a huge shortage of teachers teaching these subjects in comprehensive school and upper secondary school. If you go to a lower level, the basic job in kindergarten is like robotics, but people who can answer children's questions why, why, why, why, why, get less and less every day. So how do you explain your claim that the consistent development of science and science is sufficiently funded?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U47	There are, of course, exactly the opposite examples. Today's young people's skills in information technology transcend those that you or I had at the beginning of school. There are also positive examples! Secondly, I'm pretty sure that if you talk to your groupmate sitting behind you, he'll protest if you mean only science. We had a very interesting conversation with Aadu Black on the subject that we should treat humanities, national sciences, equally with other branches. It is not the case that only the sciences are science. Diversity is certainly important here. I do not dare to confirm that the situation in Estonia has deteriorated in the field of science as well. If we look at the results of Estonian students studying science, it seems to me that today's children are no more foolish than those boys and girls who were children when the lawn was greener. I do, however, dare to be an optimist when it comes to these issues. It is clear that much depends on the attitudes of society as a whole, which areas we value, whether wisdom is unambiguously appreciated in society, what jobs are created in the country and where high wages are paid. That certainly is also clear. The reason why information technology is so popular is not only that information technology is fascinating for many. There are simply many jobs and shortages of good workers in this area. Surely the existing jobs are a little dictated by the number of professions that are increasing or decreasing. This, of course, must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U48	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U49	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! I listened to you juggle with numbers when you compared Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Yeah, we're ahead of pay, but pay isn't what brings food to a man's table. The main indicator is purchasing power. I would remind you that in 2009 GDP per capita in Estonia was 62% and in Lithuania 57% of the European Union average. In 2014 this figure was 73% in Estonia and 74% in Lithuania. 74% should be higher than 73%. I'm afraid that gap will be even bigger next year. But I ask what good science is if the Government of the Republic does not guarantee the competitiveness of companies. I will give another example of milk production, where we are at the absolute top of the world, let alone the European Union. However, the Estonian Government is the only one who does not support his farmer as much as it supports the farmer in the rest of Europe. Please do not start reading these grants again: crisis support, transitional support, sorry, European Union direct aid. I'm talking about my country's support, where there will be 4.6 million next year...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U50	Good questioner, your time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U51	I understand your fortitude is similar to that of the EKRE. EKRE is revived every time you talk about tolerance. You will recover every time it is possible to talk about agriculture. This is, in itself, enviable and certainly also has a very close link with science in the field of agriculture. But what surprised me by listening to your long question is your claim that wages are not what brings food to the table. I think that's exactly what brings food on the table. I understand that you tried to tell me a moment ago that this nearly 1100 euros, which is probably the average wage in Estonia by the end of the year, is less than about 860 euros in purchasing power, which is Lithuania's average wage. If you say so, let it be your opinion. Of course, you are right that, given the purchasing power parities of gross domestic product, Lithuania has been on more or less one stick with Estonia for several years in a row. However, there is a very large but. The purchasing power also reflects very directly the fact that a number of services that depend on people's wages, for example, taxiing, which is considerably cheaper in Vilnius than in Estonia, are cheaper because people's incomes are lower. And even if certain prices are much cheaper in Lithuania, if we take the most important items of consumer goods that every person buys, I would argue that there is no fundamental difference in prices, which is close to the difference between Estonian and Lithuanian salaries. So if there is a choice whether to prefer an average wage of EUR 860 or a salary approaching EUR 1100, I would prefer the latter. And now your question about agriculture. The fact that the Estonian Government has found an opportunity to invest nearly 40 million euros during the financial year is a very big thing. Even theoretically, we wouldn't be able to pay the top-up for the same amount. Secondly, we have considered it very important that taxpayers' support should go only to those sectors that are actually in crisis. All agriculture is not currently in crisis. Estonian grain cultivation has never been as good a year as it has been this year. This is the assessment of the producers themselves. Profits have never been so great. Consequently, and this has been said by the farmers' representatives themselves, the focus must be on the dairy sector and the pig farming sector. That is exactly what we have done. In particular, we have tried to help the so-called 'third-zone pig farmers'. And if you look at the longer term, it is more important than public subsidies that the state opens doors to export markets. If the plan that the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus, has with the Chinese market, if only part of it materialises, then we will only see a bill that will literally bring bread to the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U52	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U53	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! In your speech, you mentioned that a company could be set up to increase cooperation between universities in promoting knowledge and technology transfer. What exactly is the concept of this company?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U54	It is obviously early to talk about a concept. This is an idea that has come from a report commissioned by the TAN and which experts have pointed out. I called it in the context of a common marketing activity, a common knowledge transfer. But there are a number of other ideas to come out of this report, if you read it with a thought. One idea is to jointly manage real estate, information technology, etc. in a company or any other format. For example, on real estate, universities themselves say that what kind of bullshit is it that we do not want it under any circumstances? All the real estate we have is very necessary. Well, it's up to everyone involved to assess whether that's true or not. Life will show you how it goes. For the IT field, however, the rectors of the universities, I have spoken to some of them, say a very good idea. It is possible to save money together; it is possible to do things more efficiently. Whether it would be promoted by an enterprise or chosen in another legal format is secondary. It's just made up as a single entity. Transfer of knowledge is important: if we have any knowledge in Estonia, it should reach out to other scientists. We need to think about how to get better cooperation between the two largest universities. Rectors sit very often at a single table and also often attend external visits. I have also visited foreign visits with the Rector of Tallinn University of Technology and the University of Tartu, where they have sought opportunities to bring foreign lecturers to Estonia, exchange students, etc. They're already working pretty well together, but they could do better. That is the point of this report. If you want to know if there is any concept and if someone has already drawn up the structure of this company, it is obviously too soon. Much depends on the willingness of universities themselves to cooperate in these areas. I am pleased to say that they have actually been very open. Perhaps you could expect them to say that let our institution remain the way it's always been. But it's not like that. I do not see this with the rector of the University of Tartu or the Technical University. They are very clearly open-minded and think about how to do things even better. I think this is the right approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U55	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U56	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Thank you so much for the review. My question concerns cooperation between ministries and other authorities, and perhaps with universities and research institutions? Is that enough? According to social scientists, the problem is very often that science and research offer one thing, but practical action is different.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U57	Well, I'm sure there's room for improvement to make more use of scientists' wisdom. This is a subject that I have discussed with the academician Finnishre on several occasions. I am planning to meet the people of the Academy of Sciences at the beginning of next year and discuss in more detail how Parliament and the government can make better use of the potential of the Academy of Sciences. In this area, there are more and more good examples in themselves, where we have had to deny it, also thanks to the euro money, it is possible to set up task forces in one area or another, or to order some sort of analysis. These opportunities have somewhat expanded, but there is certainly even more potential. Ideally, this would, of course, be one of the basic prerequisites for shaping policies. Estonia does not need to reform all development in all sectors at all times. We have done a great deal already, and in quite a number of areas we now need a little more calmly, but the more in depth we need, we need to deal with fine-tuning in order to achieve the next level. Knowledge and science play a major role in this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U58	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, There has also been talk here today about an institution such as the Development Fund, and my question is one of the functions that this Fund should perform and on which there is also a specific chapter in the Development Fund Act: namely monitoring development. This also means, according to a long and complex definition, that the state of science is systematically assessed and strategic developments are defined, which should lead to greater economic growth and societal benefits in the long term. My question is how development monitoring has worked so far in your opinion. Are there positive challenges that can be better addressed in terms of monitoring development? What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U60	If we approach it formally, the Development Fund will report to Parliament and maybe it is not even appropriate for me to try to assess in detail how the Development Fund has dealt with its tasks. There is, of course, room for improvement here too, but it can be said that, in Parliament, too, Maris Lauri, under the leadership of the Development Fund, looks at how good or bad the work is. I'm sure you'll get a more direct and honest assessment from my colleague, Maris Lauri, if you ask me about it. On the basis of developments, a specific format in which the contribution of the Development Fund has been noticeable is the selection of areas for smart specialisation growth. Whether it's gone well or not, we can argue about it. The fact is that it was agreed in Europe that there would be an acceleration of development in some areas. In Estonia, these areas were chosen by the Development Fund and certain logic is certainly there. Now, what are the challenges? We have agreed that at the end of the first quarter, the Minister of Enterprise will come before the government with proposals on how the work of all institutions and organisations supporting entrepreneurship could be better organised, not only by the Development Fund. This is, in my opinion, the right approach: to look at the various institutions and organisations and to examine whether there is duplication anywhere, but more importantly, it is also necessary to examine whether synergies can be created. It's like the monitoring function has been on the development fund, but it has to connect to the functions that the EAS has, for example. Whether to come to the market or to go to some market, all these things. If these functions could work together, it would be a big step forward. For once, I have the impression that the Development Fund has not had a clear and precise order, which we expect from it, for many years. If you could formulate a very clear order, there would be some concrete result. I've just had this feeling. But once again, there are people in Parliament who have been systematically dealing with this issue, and it is certainly worth listening to their opinion as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U61	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I had a question on the subject, too, and now I am asking your opinion. The press has stated that the development fund should be wound up. Obviously, this proposal cannot be taken seriously. I understand from what you have said that you believe that the work of the Development Fund should be improved, not eliminated.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U63	I don't want to take premature opinions. As I said, the Minister of Enterprise is currently working on this subject in detail and will bring his proposals to the government at the end of the quarter. If I told you in advance what my position is, his work would make no sense at all and it would not be polite to him. Let us look at these proposals and look at the work that has been done in the Riigikogu, and then we will find some reasonable solution for how to proceed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U64	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U65	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! There has been a lot of talk here today about the report commissioned by TAN and that there is a recommendation to partially consolidate research institutions. My question is whether the ongoing reform of the state will affect research institutions in any way and, if so, how.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U66	The main content of "sustainable" governance has been that the government sets general objectives which, unlike the statements that remain, have not been such that each area has exactly the same objective. Not by a long shot! These objectives vary about three-and-a-half times by area of administration and take into account what areas are more and which areas have modernised and reformed less. That's one. Secondly, within each specific area of administration, the responsible minister has the right to designate the bodies to which the structural units must contribute how much. The assumption is that all ministers will approach this task as effectively as possible. In this sense, it would be right to address the detailed question in this area to the Minister for Education and Research. But we discussed this issue in the government, and it was said at the time that Jürgen Ligi set these objectives by distinguishing them by body. For research and development institutions, including universities, it is not possible for the state to provide a human limit by order or order. When we discussed this in the government, Jürgen Ligi had the intention of working together with the parties involved on how to achieve this as effectively as possible. I have not talked to him in the last few weeks about how things have progressed and how these goals have been achieved, but I am aware that this is the direction that is going in any case. The Ministry of Education and Research has clearly set ambitious targets. I very much agree that if the working-age population as a whole falls, we cannot afford that the state as a whole, no matter how we measure this country, it is a government-led sector or the whole public sector, it cannot constantly expand. The pressure for continuous expansion is exclusively in every administration. Except in every one of them! We also saw this very clearly in the boom years, as the formations grew rapidly. Now we have a duty to maintain a rational line and to ensure that everything we do for taxpayers' money that we fund directly or from the budget of the cadets is done as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U67	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U68	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! It's a little personal, but I'm still gonna ask you this. The air is full of new solutions, new ideas, new starting points, approaches, etc. But what separates a new old one and creates a real new one? Maybe the one that has meaning that's noticed a little later or a lot later, but that's beyond mediocrity. I know, any meaning is subjective. What does science mean to you in today's Estonia? What achievements and works of Estonian researchers have you recently become enthusiastic about?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U69	Thank you. Of course, it's not my place to say it like that, but obviously, that's the brightest question of the day. I really appreciate it! You can see that you have thought very seriously about what to ask, and many thanks for making such a detailed contribution. As I said, I am very proud of Estonian scientists and their achievements, and I have already talked about some specific things. Even the very supercapacitor of Skeleton, which has proven its economic viability by placing significant foreign investments in the company. The company has the potential to expand into a very large company. If I am not mistaken, Estonia's own investors have put quite a lot of money there too. This shows very clearly the confidence in this technology, which may in some ways even change the world. I am most impressed with things that have an impact far away from home, where we can say that this is what has been invented in Estonia. Whether it's a small niche, a small thing, but it's so awesomely done that it's the best in the world, or it's gotten into the broad masses. Such things occur in Estonia, I dare say, almost every year. Some of them have been developed in specific areas, such as material science, and not all of us can be reached immediately. We don't immediately acknowledge their importance, but they exist and there's a reason to be thrilled about them. And as I said before, these stories need to be told to get people excited. Just as children need to be given concrete examples of how being smart and finding new solutions will make life better. In my opinion, Lotte, the inventor's village, is the coolest popularist among the children of science. After all, the village of inventors is a community of scientists where people constantly think about how to do things better. Of course, there is also humor, for example, whether a pancake can only be made by a mother or could be a machine to make a pancake, but in the end, they make a whole generation, even perhaps several generations, think about how to do things more violently. That's the essence of science. So, even on this occasion, I am proud that Estonian science is as popularized as Lotte and Inventors' Village.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U70	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U71	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I have heard quite a lot of criticism from the opposition in this Chamber today. I guess that's their job to criticize. I remember years ago, when Professor Ene Ergma started creating a space support group in this hall, the opposition laughed at it. What's going on in the space of Estonia, what kind of bullshit is that?? However, thanks to this process, we are now a full member of the European Space Agency and, essentially, every euro that Estonia contributes to ESA, will return to us in the course of research, development and financing projects as procurements for both research institutions and companies. You have made several successful trips abroad, such as China and beyond the Atlantic. Have there been any international cooperation projects as a result of these trips? Of course, national funding projects are important, but perhaps we could get more back if we were to contribute to a variety of international cooperation. With such joint projects, perhaps we could take two steps forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U72	Thank you for that question. First of all, I wouldn't be so critical of the whole opposition. I think that some of the opposition ambassadors have come up with very good, bright and constructive questions, and I really welcome that. I think this has been a very constructive debate thanks to this. At the same time, I fully agree that at the time, many did not believe that Estonia would become a space state. These people were not only in the opposition, but in fact in the coalition, too, to deny them. They made fun of the subject. Let's face it, it was. And it wasn't a self-evident and foolproof plan that there would be a satellite that students would send into orbit. It seemed completely cosmic, impossible. Nor did any of us well foresee the emergence of a supercapacitor-making company capable of providing a compact solution, a product, or whatever it might be called, to the large automobile industry in the world. But afterwards, we can say that it was very good that there were such foresighted people who then struggled and survived to make fun of the idea. Hat off, it's done right! It is very right that internationalisation is a key factor in success, as well as cooperation between universities, which we have talked about. Specifically, with the rectors, I have been to Milan, for example, where we met with the heads of the University of Bocconi. It is a very prestigious Italian higher education institution and I very much hope to be able to work with it at its top level. In general, Estonia has shown great interest in smart solutions and high value added products. The examples are very different. The same Skeleton I've been talking about. I've been with Skeleton's leader in Germany, where they're active. Or the questioner in the field of Estonia piano, which can be characterized by words of innovation, development, brilliant product. Estonia's piano is a very good quality product, with very high added value, in its field at the top of the world. It's just the kind of product we want. In the case of development, maybe it wouldn't be the first time to think about the piano, but when you talk to different people in Beijing, China's capital, they say that the piano in Estonia makes their eyes shine. Or for example, the Estonian electronics industry produces Estelon speakers. We hope that this highly recognised product will also lead to good economic success. At present, their production is at such a stage that they enter many markets with very high added value. It is a proud feeling to see that Estonia's high-quality products are doing well. I think that each of us can be proud of the use of the piano in some of the top halls of Estonia or if it is simply popular in important and highly competitive markets such as the US and in the future for us, I believe, also China.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U73	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U74	Thank you, good manager. Thank you, Prime Minister, for a meaningful presentation and also for the debate in the Committee on Culture. I want to touch on a subject such as design, design, thinking, design, which really creates greater added value, greater productivity. That's what we all need. In Estonia, design is mainly taught at the Academy of Arts. As an alumni at the Academy of Arts, I am a little concerned about the question of when the situation of the Academy of Arts will be resolved. When's the new house coming?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U75	I wondered where this question would lead. However, I certainly agree with the whole point of the question. Indeed, to say the least, the industrial revolution contributed to more production per person. But if we want the next level, once again, I will simplify well, then we must produce more value-added, more desirable products, and there will be no over-design or re-design. As far as the new building of the Academy of Arts is concerned, as far as I know, its construction can be financed by a measure to be opened soon by the Ministry of Education and Research. I am not quite sure if I can officially say this as Prime Minister, but we have agreed in the government that this is an important subject for us. I do not know whether any specialists still have to assess the eligibility of this project, and I am not now illegally affecting them by expressing my support. I hope, however, that I will not do this when I say that I think the building of the Academy of Arts definitely deserves to be built. Maybe I won't tell you a big secret when I say that I'm going to show the government's foreign guests from my office in the balcony of North Tallinn as a very developing area, and it's almost always said that a look at this house that stands sadly there is going to be our art academy, which will certainly give the whole region an even more pleasant bohemian shine. I believe the art academy needs to be built. This should be done by means of a euro measure, and I hope that all the necessary procedure, all that goes along with a proper measure, will be accompanied by political will. However, we have this political will in common with three parties in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U76	Thank you, Prime Minister. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U77	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! Honourable colleagues! The Prime Minister said nicely that, behind the general figures, we need to see specific people with specific stories. Perhaps these specific stories can be told by the media, they can be told by school teachers and tutors, even by the dog girl Lotte, referred to by the Prime Minister, but in this hall, it should still be about money. In my opinion, this is something that you and I, dear colleagues, can contribute to, of course, at the initiative of the Government of the Republic. Estonian scientists have achieved a great deal. The Prime Minister gave interesting examples of this, but I would stress that they have achieved all of this largely despite under-funding. In particular, it must be concluded that it is worth contributing to our science and perhaps it is worth taking more account of the views of the Minister of Education and Research. We have a lot of excellent documents to build on. As I prepared for this day, I counted three of them. First, I read the 'Knowledge based Estonia' strategy. Perhaps it is a little too optimistic, but no one has ever claimed that this strategy is not feasible for the Estonian state. Among other things, this strategy says: 'Science and development funding from public and local budgets will be raised to 1% of GDP by 2015 and will be maintained at this level in the future. ' This resounding objective is also clearly set out in the current Government Union Treaty, as well as in the development of basic funding for research institutions and cooperation between research institutions and businesses. I would like to stress another sentence of this strategy: 'Furthermore, permanent financing will be supported at the expense of tax revenues. ' This excellent document has been followed by another document: the concept of public funding for science, which I think was developed during the previous Minister of Education and Research. Apart from everything else, this concept recognises that the share of stable basic funding for research institutions is too low to provide stable working conditions and an attractive development environment. This concept contains proposals which, inter alia, aim to determine the financial proportion of operating grants and competitive research grants from research organisations by 50% and 50% respectively. It also states that the annual volume of state budget funding for science needs to be increased by EUR 29,7 million, from 49,6 million to 79,3 million. The first additional amounts should be added from the 2016 state budget and the whole transition to the new level would take place within two or three years. This document was followed by a report commissioned by the TAN this year, the so-called 'Ok report', and a few months ago an analysis of the implementation of the recommendations of this report was completed. There are many of these recommendations, and it has been stressed in this analysis that the most important among them are those which have not yet been implemented, but which are planned and require the support of society. One such recommendation is to change the proportion of university research funding in such a way as to increase the share of basic funding. It has also been mentioned that there is, in principle, broad support for this position, but the pace and scope of its implementation depends on the priorities of the budget. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U78	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U79	I have reached the most important point: budgetary priorities. When, on a point raised on the ground, I implicitly accused the Prime Minister that the priority of the government coalition was not research and development, he was eager to argue against it, but it seems to me that my fellow Members did not believe it either. Why, then, is the growth of basic research funding not a government priority? Is this a lack of ideas or, I'm sorry, just admitting that you're powerless? Or is there a reason that the other electoral promises that have been considered more important have already been overfunded and, figuratively speaking, the government's throat has been tightened? The government and the Prime Minister themselves know that. The Prime Minister asked us several times to advise where to find the necessary sources of cover. In the course of the budgetary procedure, the Free Party Group referred several times to the fact that the sources of cover can be found, in particular, by emphasising: through the unblocking of the public sector. And at the end of the day, I will say again that we can also set a personal example in this Chamber. Carthage must be destroyed, i.e. the financing of political parties must be significantly reduced and cost benefits reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U80	On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union Kalle Muuli, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U81	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Research and development is a creative systematic work aimed at increasing knowledge and applying knowledge, including knowledge about culture and society. This is how Eurostat defines R &amp; D. In terms of the results of this creative and systematic work, Estonia is at the 10th place in the 2015 innovation ranking of the European Union, which is unfortunately behind the European average. This ranking, which takes into account 25 indicators, is run by our northern neighbours. Sweden comes first, followed by Denmark, Finland and fourthly Germany. What should be at the heart of our debate today is how to do creative systematic work to raise and implement knowledge so that we reach the top of the European Union, I do not want to say that among the first five. Thanks to the work of the previous Riigikogu and the previous government, we have a strategy and a vision. You could even say that we have a very good strategy and a very good vision. It is called 'Knowledge-Based Estonia', as has already been the case many times. This document was initiated in 2012 by Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education, and Juhan Parts, Minister of Economic Affairs. The Riigikogu approved it on 22 January 2014. I certainly do not want to say that the current government cares less about research and development than any of the previous ones. Very much has been done in a short time. But I don't want to use this little time here to start reading the government's achievements, the Prime Minister did very well. I'd rather talk about what's troubling. A year ago, the Prime Minister said from this very speaker: 'The next year, the state will move towards fulfilling its promise and will provide approximately 1% of GDP for state budget funding for R &amp; D in 2015. We're not at 1% yet, but we're moving towards it. " At the time, it was right. If he said the same thing now, it would be wrong, because we are not moving in that direction, we are getting away from it. Public and local government expenditure on R &amp; D is well below 1% of GDP, and this share will decrease further next year. Indeed, there are, of course, explanations to the state budget that the European Union's resources have not yet opened up, but it is still a very bad signal that the share of research funding is decreasing compared to GDP. We should ask why these funds have not opened up. The new funding period started already in 2014, but the year 2016 is about to come, but the programmes will not open or open. It is gratifying, however, that the problem has basically been understood and the Riigikogu found 4.4 million euros in additional money to increase the most burning problem, the co-financing of science. But this process must certainly continue in the coming years until the promised target of 1% of GDP has been achieved. There are three important lines of action in the report by Mr Ok. The first one, the increase in basic science funding, I've already told you. The second is to support research and education trends that are important for Estonia's development, and this can certainly only be accepted. Much more attention should be paid to supporting science that is important to Estonia and to the competitiveness of our economy. Let us mention oil shale studies already mentioned, as well as e-health and cyber defence, as well as studies of Estonian language and culture. It is particularly important to develop language technology that will teach computers the Estonian language. It is also very important that Oki's report analyses how to make our universities and research institutions more competitive. Very concrete proposals have been made to merge them. But what certainly cannot be accepted is that our national sciences have also been committed to other sciences.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U82	Excuse me, do you need more time? Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U83	There is no competition in the study of Estonian language and Estonian history. National sciences are our monopoly, and we must create this competition here ourselves, with a sufficient number of research institutions to exchange ideas and knowledge. We must not equate our national sciences with other sciences, it would be a fatal mistake. Atoms, genes and space can be studied anywhere, but no one will study Estonian, Estonian history and other national sciences anywhere for us. That is why we must immediately forget the idea of merging national science institutions or, to put it plainly, of losing them. These institutions are the hallmarks of the existence of our country and the basis for our people's survival, which is, as my colleague Aadu Must loves to say nicely, these are the attributes of our country. If we decide to join the Institute of the Estonian Language with the University of Tartu, which I think means losing the Institute, then please we will also go to the Tall Hermann Tower to take down the blue black and white flag that he is wasting our money there! I mean, how many flags does it take a year, we could save off the paychecks, and maybe we could even reduce the light in the tower. There's no need to waste electricity. The same is true of national sciences in higher education institutions and science. When our higher education and research become English, we no longer need Estonian universities. There are many English - speaking universities in the world! We shut down our universities, take this money, and send students to the universities of the world to study. Savings and competitiveness, both the objectives of the Oki report have been met in this case, but the Estonian people and Estonian language are no longer there. Ladies and gentlemen, A quarter of a century ago, when we started restoring Estonia, it was customary to say that our country was expensive. This statement has two meanings: our country is dear to our hearts and our wallets. And the less we have, the more expensive he is. We can save in many places: we can cut the number of employees on state wages, we can cut the Olympic budget for Estonian Television, but we must not save on research and development, because every cent put into research and development produces money that we can maintain our precious country, promote national science and wave so useless on the wallet in the Tall Hermann Tower, but still so expensive on the heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U84	On behalf of the Centre Party Group, Aadu Black, please! Please add three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U85	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister! I like that the Riigikogu regularly discusses research and development and that this report is made by the Prime Minister. My first enthusiasm for the Riigikogu meeting on this topic was somewhere in the previous composition, where I tended to applaud the floor, listening to the Prime Minister's presentation. Later in the budgetary debate, I was able to fight very hard: 'Where do you take this money? ' Today I'm happy. A great many issues have been addressed and I am pleased that there is such a consensus as was in the past when listening to the report on development in the Committee on Culture. Indeed, in the Commission, we have many thoughts in common. At the moment, I do not have to go over the points that I agree with in the Oki report, talk about something else and accentuate some problems. One of them is that sometimes we get the impression that we now have research and development, we have, oh-oh, like some kind of new direction and job loose. I repeat what has already been said here: the phenomenon of the Estonian state, the fact that the Estonian state exists at all, is largely based on our belief in education. The foundation of Estonia is highly educated people and was proven by the creation of the Estonian state, when it suddenly became apparent that we have many intellectuals, including the higher education community. When Poska called them, they came professors, engineers, and other men by hundreds and thousands. One more thing. The National Archives is now examining how many Estonians were taken into the first world war, for example, 100,000 or 125,000. We generally know there were 100,000 of them. There's one more thing coming out. I think this study shows that during the first world war, Estonia was the country where the greatest number of boys invited to join the army was those who had been granted a grace period for higher education in either the Netherlands, Russia, Germany, Scandinavia or Estonia. So our ancestors have created the foundation of this country, and this country became possible because we had educated people. I am not contesting the success stories that were discussed, and I am also enthusiastic about the high developments, even in terms of remote sensing, the results of which will also reach the historians' desk. I cannot fail to say here that let us move outside Estonia and talk to our colleagues. You know, it was so great that the Prime Minister said there was a lesson to be learned from mistakes. Yes, it is! We also have areas where we are still quite amused. I'm not just thinking about space, which my generation is particularly impressed with. I still remember 58 years ago, when the first sputnik was sent up, it was a great miracle. To buy a container there these days, it's not as great an achievement as it may seem to my generation. But that's it. I have heard that laughs have been made about how Estonians have not been able to use the euro money that was given to them to promote European science. You know, the atom remains an atom in Paris, Beijing and Brussels. There's no Puka, Purtse or Puurmana atom. And there are a number of areas where there is enormous synergy in cooperation. There are, of course, areas that can only be studied in Estonia. Mr Muuli, a good colleague, pointed out this very well. These are not only humanities and national sciences, they are also Estonian nature and many other areas. There are also laughs about how Estonians bravely and with the support of members of the Riigikogu try to develop their own tent town in Antarctica next to the brilliant American research city. And we have also laughed at how Estonians have developed instruments for the defence industry, about which a general wrote that we will complete this project, because even a person who shares physics at a high school level knows that they cannot work like this. Now a few more words about internationalization. Internationalisation is important, but it really needs to be promoted selectively and wisely. For Estonian science, Estonian national culture, men are immensely important and do not pursue this highly valued category. I bring an example of Toivo Maimets, who wrote a book of Estonian cell biology to the universities, thus saving the scientific vocabulary in Estonian in his own specialty. The Estonian language must not be receded into the language of the kitchen. Or Jaan Järvik from Tallinn, who wrote the same capital Estonian electrical engineering textbook for higher education institutions, and this is why we have developed this vocabulary at the top of our minds. I cannot get over or around the same old trouble that we have seen quite often in the Riigikogu that we are not talking about science as a whole. The last eight years have been one-on-one ripping, one-on-one preferring. I used to be interested in the analysis of doctoral studies, major research on humanities, for example. They said that we studied science, doctoral studies, not Estonian or history, etc. I now come to a subject that was so well introduced by my good colleague Kalle Muuli: humanities and national sciences. Indeed, it is good if one or the other ministry knows which direction of science to support. But there is one direction that is the task of the state: it is to preserve its history, its language, its culture. And those aren't just words. It turns out that these sciences are also of enormous operational importance. We are saying that migrants will come to Estonia and that the people who have migrated from us will definitely come back because they will be brought back by culture. You know, the young Estonians said that let us become Europeans, let us remain Estonians. We tend to have to cancel the other half of this sentence in the event of a lack of money. That should definitely not be the case. They won't come back if our national culture gets lost. There was also talk of a foreign rage. We don't know our history, we can't learn from it. History must be a collective experience, and anyone who knows it will overcome the enmity. And so there's a whole set of arguments. We're saying that we're not going to have a deportation discussion with Russian historians because we don't believe what they're saying. We may or may not believe it, but we must have arguments to argue. I am trying not to harm anyone, but one of our ministers declared that we are going to bring damages claims to Russia. Sorry, there's one but! If you want to go to war, you don't just have to have a gun, you have to have bullets. I don't know where the records are. They are in the archives of foreign countries and we cannot use them as arguments. Not to go to war, not even to argue, unless there is a reason to reserve arguments. Ladies and gentlemen, our national sciences are the responsibility of our country and it is time for us to realise that they are our guarantee of sustainability. It is not the one, the other or the third ministry that must take care of them, but the attributes of our Government, the Riigikogu and other state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U86	On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, Mihkel Raud, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Dear colleagues! Dear guests! In an era of universal success and power cult, let us say that knowledge is also a force, that it is possible that the greatest force in the world of R &amp; D is the uniting force of people's thinking. Through knowledge, we also reach the map of the world. There has been a lot of talk about this here today, and I do not think that we have any disagreement with most of the political parties represented in the Riigikogu, as well as that government administration itself should contribute the most to research and development. On the positive side, we can highlight for example the innovative company development programme that will kick-start next year. With this support, it is possible to obtain support for the development of, for example, sales and marketing activities, the development of a new or existing product/service and the purchase of equipment needed for the production of a new product. The Minister of Enterprise has also revived the measure of the innovation and development unit to test and develop innovative ideas and to involve external top specialists. And, of course, I am talking about the Minister for Enterprise with such a selfless thoroughness, primarily because he is a social democrat. But also, next year, the Minister of Enterprise will open a pilot programme to support smart public procurement. The public sector has an extremely large and still largely unimplemented opportunity and obligation to influence companies' R &amp; D and investment through its purchasing behaviour. If we are able to use at least 1% of the total public procurement budget by 2020, with an impact on companies' R &amp; D &amp; I investments, the state will allocate nearly EUR 20 million per year to companies' research development. In comparison, I recall that research investment in the private sector fell by EUR 31.5 million last year and by EUR 8.5 million in the public sector. The decline in total R &amp; D expenditure is partly linked to the end of the old period of the European Structural Funds. The fact that the Structural Funds represent a very large part of total funding must be seen as a source of concern and we must not rely permanently on the Structural Funds. Here, together at national level, we need to look more closely at how we can contribute as reasonably as much as possible to the increase in the share of basic R &amp; D funding. Therefore, if our aim is to achieve the objectives of 'Knowledge-based Estonia 2014-2020', we must concentrate the efforts of all parties in a much more concrete and meaningful way in order to improve the capacity of entrepreneurs in particular and to ensure that cooperation with R &amp; D institutions is effective. I would also like to talk briefly about the main scientific event of the year that ends, which is the so-called Oki report on the organisation of science and higher education, which has also been discussed in this Chamber today. Gunnar Ok had the task of getting out of the frame, and that is what Mr Okk boldly and technocraticly did. To sum up, the report suggests that there is no point in developing science and university education in Estonian here. You have to think big, sometimes provocative, to get your mind running. There is concern, however, that the R &amp; D Council fully approved this report. This opened up the opportunity for the Ministry of Education and Research and others to begin to build on the spirituality of the report and to implement its ideas, whose graphic example is the efforts to close the Institute of the Estonian Language as an independent research institution. It is said to be more optimal, more profitable, more economically efficient, etc., etc. It's time to realize that keeping a small nation state is expensive. Not everything can be optimised based on the logic of economic profitability alone. Education and the economy must, of course, be in a better relationship, but education and research cannot only be measured financially. Besides, who needs Estonian science in English? Not too many. The spin-offs created by Estonian scientists mostly move to foreign capital and then receive greater support from other countries, thus finally exiting the Estonian innovation system. This is how Estonian research policy stands at a certain crossroads: let our science dissolve into the lukewarm world sea or be an organic part of Estonian statehood? This question needs a quick and unambiguous answer. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U88	Maris Lauri, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I want to go back to the subject of which the Prime Minister spoke, this is the connection between companies and research and development institutions. I will start with what starts in the world of science: theory, in this case economic theory. Economic theory says that total economic output depends on three factors. These two are much talked about, they are capital and labour. We know that our population is going down, our workforce is going down. We can fight it, but the trend is that we cannot permanently reverse this trend over the next ten years. And we probably won't be able to change this trend thoroughly in the long run, but we can try. However, this means that we have one less growth factor. We have something that pulls our growth back. Another important component of economic growth is capital. We know that investment is falling. Why? Let us put aside the European Union's money, let us talk about businesses not having the courage to invest anymore. There is uncertainty about the future if we look to Estonia and look further. But many have also lost faith that it is worthwhile that change is possible. Maybe you don't know what to do, maybe you're afraid to change what you have. But we are optimists, and suddenly things will change in this regard in the future! The third factor that makes the economy grow is often forgotten. It is technology, but technology in a very broad sense, as a business environment, as an economic environment, as anything that affects the functioning of the economy. But we can also look at technology more narrowly, only as machines and equipment. We need a technological change because it is with it that we can compensate for this first component of the workforce and perhaps also that at times we are at a disadvantage with investments. We need a very strong shift and progress in technology, otherwise we will not be able to maintain the standard of living that we have today. But the people of our country probably want to live even better in the future. It is very wrong to think that the country or the government is the maker of this change, that this is the key right here. The state cannot take the company by hand and take it to researchers or developers, just as it cannot take scientists or developers to the company. Both sides must have a feeling and an understanding that they need each other to continue, to continue. But the state can help here and make these processes easier and perhaps less costly. You can understand scientists who dive into interesting theoretical issues, and you can also understand an entrepreneur who says that he does not share science and expects something very practical. But these two parties need to understand each other, understand that both have their own interests and that progress can only be made if both interests and needs are taken into account. We need mutual understanding. There is a need for theory, fundamental research, but practical solutions are also needed. And success comes when entrepreneurs have the courage and faith to spend more on research development. If we look at what has taken place in a few years, in the last year the expenditure on research and development has decreased, including in entrepreneurship and investment. We have a lot of talk about things changing in the oil shale sector, but let's look in the numbers. Private sector investments have indeed decreased in a few years, but they have been particularly declining in the electronics industry, in the ICT sector, including in both telecommunications and so-called programming. I'd like more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U90	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U91	Private sector energy peaked last year. So it makes us think that in the area of our success, there has been a marked reversal in recent years. I mean ICT. Have orders moved to the public sector, where there are really many innovations? But it is important that our own companies also start using more ICT applications. If we look at the number of employees in research and development, then in general this figure has remained more or less stable. I'm not talking about the fluctuations of the individual years. I'm talking about the trend. In fact, given that the number of employees in general is decreasing, this is a positive development. So I wouldn't cry that there's not gonna be a lot of scientists here. If we even have fewer inhabitants, it's kind of a natural process. I would also like to talk a little bit about these problems and possible solutions. I have said this before that I do not always think scientists and entrepreneurs understand each other. It's like they need a translator in between. And I think it's the role of the state to help them understand each other sometimes. This has also been done, but this is only possible if both parties are ready to do so. It certainly frightens businesses that research development is very expensive, and sometimes it is also a fear that suddenly it is too expensive. I would encourage you to take action and try. Things may not always be that expensive. And another suggestion: entrepreneurs could cooperate with each other. We have positive examples, and the country can certainly contribute with its own resources to better cooperation here. We need to get rid of the usual and traditional solution. Some areas receive funding, others do not. The clogging of new things and activities is sometimes justified, but we cannot rely solely on familiar solutions, especially in research and development. In my opinion, we have an approach that prefers only familiar things, too much, including both private and public financers. There are certain fears involved in research: we spend money, we don't get results, etc. But let us think that the negative result is also the result, because now we know that we have to do it differently. Failures often result in better solutions and new ideas. You must know that, too, and it is very natural. Now, however, I want to come to practice by emphasising cooperation. I started with a theory. We have top-notch scientists, we have resourceful explorers, smart inventors and researchers. We have visionary entrepreneurs. It is important that these three parties definitely meet and cooperate. The state can and has done something here, but most of all we need the will of three parties. It's a good thing things are better, but they always get better. My wish is for there to be more cooperation, open thinking, so that we do not complain or complain that the many investments that have been made will be implemented. Then there will be results in a few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U92	On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U93	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Since only one question could be asked, I must inevitably take this opportunity to respond to the statements made by the Prime Minister in this chair. When the Prime Minister makes claims on scientific matters, it is natural that if these claims are not supported by facts or examples, then the ambassadors will have questions. So did our group. I assumed a good Prime Minister could answer them without going into personal attacks or very poor demagoguery. Unfortunately, that happened. If the Prime Minister claims that the development of Estonian science is hindered by intolerance and foreign hatred in Estonia, examples should also be given in support of such a serious accusation. It is not enough for this reference to be expressed in a political discussion by a political party or by a Member, such as myself, which does not match the opinions of the government coalition, but which is also shared by the vast majority of the Estonian population. It's like it's holding back the development of Estonian science. In this regard, it would be useful to give an example of the number of foreign lecturers who have emigrated, how many people have not come to work in TransferWise, for example, because our opinion matches the opinion of the majority of the people. However, these studies have not been carried out. This is the case with vulgar attacks, where even benevolent proposals and applications are glued with a foreign hate label. I think there is a very good quote about this attitude from an American diplomat named Charles Bohlen, who has said that a good foreign leader is shaping his policy at the advice of experts and creating a public opinion that supports it. If we look at even the polls that have been asked to evaluate the Prime Minister's work and the result is a grade of 2.5, then unfortunately, there has to be something that has not been done. Consequently, it is not a good leader. What poses a real problem in the development of Estonian science and society at large is precisely hate speech. Angry speech against your own people. Angry speech when people are embarrassed about cases where there's no fixed evidence, where only rumors move about, and where senior soldiers spread versions of 'women in the sauna' style. There's no evidence! That's why you're embarrassed about your own people, it's not state-manly to the Prime Minister. And that's a shame. The Prime Minister stressed that he was responsible, to a certain extent, for all government decisions. Then he is also responsible for the reduction of the budget on the only popular scientific journal that has introduced science to ordinary people for 50 years. If the government, led by Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, does not find EUR 70,000 to support the publication of Horizon magazine in the future, then I do not know how important the priority is to popularise science more widely. These are issues that the Prime Minister should think about. I hope every person can learn. As I am, the Prime Minister will certainly be able to learn. I wish you a happy Christmas time and a calm mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U94	This item has been discussed. Thank you, Prime Minister. Before we go to the next item on the agenda, we need to resolve a point of order. In particular, both the Free Party Group and the Reform Party Group have proposed extending the working time of the sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. This must be decided by the Riigikogu plenary. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Free Party and Reform Party Group to extend the working time of the sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. There are 55 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, no respondents or abstentions. The meeting period has been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U95	Our next item is the debate on the important national issue 'Estonian R &amp; D choices, opportunities and crossroads' raised by the Free Party Group. As in such cases the rule will be completed in cooperation between the group and the Riigikogu Board, I consider it necessary to inform you that all three rapporteurs will receive a presentation of up to 15 minutes and that there will be up to 20 minutes after each report. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. At the request of the Group of the Free Party, I propose that the representatives of the political groups first speak in the negotiations. Let's start the procedure. As rapporteur, I would like to ask Krista Aru, Member of the Committee on Culture and the Group of the Estonian Free Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U96	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! Good guests! First of all, I would like to thank the Riigikogu's management for the opportunity to present and discuss the state and development of research and development as an important national issue. I would like to thank the Free Party Group for its confidence in raising this issue. Thank you to the Prime Minister, who gave us a comprehensive overview of the relationship between research and development and innovation in other areas of life and new challenges. These challenges, which the Prime Minister spoke of, are not just R &amp; D challenges, but largely concern society as a whole. But most of all, I thank the active and highly industrious scientific community of Estonia, the scientific community that works on research and development every day and is called Nature magazine. a in the June 18th issue, thanks to whose work they say'small but strong' about Estonia. This is a very great recognition of Estonian science, Estonian scientific community, and that is why we must all be very grateful to Estonian scientists. My presentation is an introduction to a thorough review of two scientists, how Estonian science now lives through the eyes of both humanitarian and natural scientists, where there are bottlenecks that are going well, how international cooperation has progressed, etc. These two scientists are Ülo Niinemets and Marek Tamm, instead of whom there could have been dozens of others. My choice fell in favour of these two mainly because they are well-known scientists in Estonia, they are internationally very successful, and they are also very nice and good people who live and work among us. Why, then, are R &amp; D choices, opportunities and crossroads an important national issue? This question is obviously on your mind and on your tongue right now, because the Prime Minister gave a very comprehensive and thorough overview of how well our research and development is doing. And he was right about a lot of things. But can we all, including the entire scientific community, calmly confirm that research and development are so well and that it will help our country further? Of course, I use the crossroads of science above all as a metaphorical expression, in an attempt to include all three driving forces for development: research, development and innovation. None of these three are sustainable without the other or the third. We have indeed reached a crossroads in the development of our country, where wise and timely choices are needed. Options, in particular, on how to promote your country and improve the lives of your people in a competitive world. And all of this must be done in a declining country, where there is no oil coming from the ground, where we may eventually be able to mine granite and where, unfortunately, half a year is a pretty disgusting weather. However, we should be able to do so, regardless of the European Union's money, regardless of whether and when the programmes financed by the European Union's levers will start and how many are there. We should be able to promote and improve our country and our lives ourselves. Our main and greatest source of growth, our competitive advantage in today's world, is a wise nation. It is not very original to arrive at this conclusion, and a similar conclusion has already been reached much before us in Switzerland, South Korea, Norway, Israel, to name just a few countries. And, of course, it has also come to this with our overseas neighbours, whom we often look to when we are a little bit in demand in organizing our lives. A hundred years ago, one nation enjoyed a competitive advantage when the people were literate. And the Estonians were very good at taking advantage of this advantage and boldly taking advantage of it immediately. The bigger the role of literate artists, the better the economic performance, the faster the modernisation of society was a hundred years ago. The Estonians were very courageous in promoting their literacy. Let us just remember a few things here. 1857 was the year when the first word was said 'Estonians', but in 1909 Estonians dreamed and talked about having an academy of their own sciences. That was barely half a century later. A quarter of a century ago, the success of one society was guaranteed by higher education, higher education workers, their ability to work, their ability to understand world affairs. In the 21st century, all this is no longer enough for us. We can only participate in this race once we have reached the next level of social wisdom. We need the next option - science, the role of researchers in the country, the participation of researchers in decision-making in all socio-economic processes, the management of processes and the overall share of knowledge-based decisions - have become a competitive factor in the world. Science is the driving force behind the progress of today's society, including the competitiveness of the economy. I do not think there is any person in this Chamber who would question the correctness of this statement or wish to object to it. Examples can be drawn from all successful and successful countries, but also from Estonia. Studies have been carried out, analysed, it is a matter of how well and how wisely we have used the results of the studies. Estonia has its own Estonian research and development strategy and I dare say that this strategy is a good document. It identifies clear trends, has specific objectives, has analysed tasks as well as a concrete and clear funding table. Of course, it can always be said that there have been strategies before, and what so much about this one strategy, we can still do it, put the next in line. However, I think that this strategy is linked to other strategies that we have really developed here, is linked to the spirit of the Estonian Constitution and is also linked to the entire international treasure, which is made up of European values as well as our own membership of the European cultural space. I also dare say that the 'Knowledge-based Estonia' strategy for research and development and innovation, which already bears number 3, is the best plan we currently have. It is the best road map for society as a whole in order to move forward as a successful, educated and prosperous country. This plan has already been discussed here; it was adopted by the National Assembly of Representatives at the beginning of last year and was approved by our higher education institutions, research institutions and the wider scientific community. The big target set out in the strategy is also very clearly expressed in the language of the figures, and we should have come to the point that the state's contribution to financing our R &amp; D by 2015 is 1% of gross domestic product. We have comforted ourselves in the year that ends by not making it in 2015. During the time of the Minister of Education and Research Ossinovski, however, there was a separate working group that calculated, tried to justify and explain where the state's money added to the funding of science could go in order to maintain the level achieved in order to maintain and develop the diversity of science that we have achieved. So our R &amp; D and innovation are in many ways at a crossroads. We know very well the bottlenecks, such as the relatively frequent distance of science from business, the economy. We know of bottlenecks concerning basic research. We know that we must not afford bad science; we must strive only for the best and most successful science. But we are now at a crossroads and we need to decide and make choices on which way to go. For two years, the state has been in the same place as financing R &amp; D. We have discussed, ordered new studies again and started to analyse again, we are still meditating, but we have not been able to take a decisive step in this direction, which has once been set in the strategy. What choices do we basically have? The most clear, concrete and better choice is the development based on the strategy. This strategy, as I said, is also in line with the spirit of the Estonian Constitution, it values, emphasizes for us perhaps the most important of all how to deal with Estonian national culture, how to deal with all the sciences that study Estonian soil, Estonian lake, Estonian forests and take care of them. There is innovation in these strategies, there is courage, but there are also many risks, because when writing it, it was bold to think that science and great discoveries are not only born by order, but can also be born completely unexpectedly, driven by an apple that fell on the head or by walking on its way to the forest. This science requires a little freedom, requires creativity, and demands novelty and courage. It's in this strategy. All we have to do is dare to take risks. We must take the risk, because the choice of this path naturally means more work. For the state, this means reducing the bureaucracy that is now boldly instigated in science, trusting more scientists, and certainly saying that research institutions, be they universities or the whole scientific community, must act and think big and try only to do the best in science. We do not have to bring back and only bring in researchers trained abroad by internationalisation. Excuse me, but the first task is to bring home the Estonians who have received an excellent education in the wide world and to make them work here. Let's take it and think a little bit bigger. What does a scientist want? The scientist wants freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U97	Thank you, Krista Aru! Any questions for the waitress? Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! In Estonia, in fact, there has been a long-term view that problems can be solved by centralising management and avoiding domestic competition, which is then called the elimination of duplication. It seems to me that there is the same problem in the scientific world. In my opinion, one of the weak points of the Oki report is that it is based on the same assumption that the more centralised and the less duplicated, the more powerful our progress will be. To be honest, I think that horizontal cooperation is too weak in Estonia. I think that horizontal cooperation between research institutions and higher education institutions could provide an additional impetus. How do you think this horizontal cooperation could be developed and promoted and centralisation withdrawn?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U99	Thank you. Science certainly does not need centralisation. Rather, it reduces openness and the capacity for dialogue. The more research units in small Estonia dealing with the same topic, the more interesting, the better the result will be. It is not always important to avoid duplication, because there is still a need for domestic competition in science and often in higher education. There is certainly no need to centralise one management.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U100	Thank you, Krista Aru! Now I ask Professor Ülo Niinemets of the Estonian University of Life Sciences to wait here!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U101	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am extremely pleased to be here before you and to speak about science from a scientist's point of view. I thank Krista Aru for inviting me here! I have to say, I don't know about you guys, but I have so many intense thoughts that I'm completely baked here thinking about science. And we haven't even had time to talk about pillow science yet! I'm gonna start with this slide with this blurry image. We look to the future, and it's a pretty blurry future. This picture is specifically taken this spring from the plane window when flying from Tartu to Helsinki. Really, this also concerns one of the scientific topics that we are dealing with, namely how plants affect the world. It is also very directly linked to the Paris Conference on Climate Change, as the plants cause this cloud in the air and so cool the earth's climate. This is one of the issues that my study group is dealing with specifically. It is financed through the grant of the European Research Council, but the work is done in Estonia. No one will come to Estonia to do this for us. This is a very important issue in itself. I also put a couple slides here just to introduce me to who the Niinemets is. I heard some people really wanted to show up and they're offended they weren't invited. Really, we work in very different countries around the world. We also have a lab blog. Here is one work on the genetic variation of pine, how pine grows on our soils and what would then be the most productive pine populations. For me, the subject is very close to young people's course of action, how they get to science, how they stay there and how they progress. Since I've been in this situation myself, I know how hard it is to stay on the sieve because the competition is beautifully strong. I've written about it many times, and I've thought about it a lot. When we talk about science at all, Estonia is not alone in this research area. Estonian science is part of the European Research Area; it is part of world science. We have the Europe 2020 strategy for Europe's ten-year growth, which should be a smart, sustainable and inclusive strategy, and there science has a huge role to play. Research will be financed through a research and innovation programme called Horizon 2020. There are three priorities. One of them is excellence in science, precisely excellence! In order for any innovation to occur at all, it is necessary for science to be at the cutting edge. There's no need for mediocre science. The second priority is the leading role of industry and the third is the challenges facing society. If we look, the challenges facing society in Europe are enormous, even the same refugee issue, but not only. For example, when we are talking about food security, Europe is very inert. Each eats its own corn, rice, or wheat, and it is very difficult to divert people from such traditions. There are things in Europe that are not dealt with in the interests of political correctness, but it is social sciences and the social dimension that is very important and goes to excellent science. If we look at why this is important, the Europe 2020 programme makes it very clear that getting out of the economic crisis depends on it, and this applies to all European countries, how much the country invests in science. There are exceptions, and we may think that we are the exception. Exceptions are those countries where average investment in research is low in absolute terms. We are talking about GDP and social gross product, and that is correct, but on the other hand, we need to take an initial level and see how much really a poor country can contribute to science. It's coming slowly. What does the Europe 2020 strategy say? Says that by 2020, 3% of GDP will have to be invested in R &amp; D and 1% of this will have to come from the state. This average should be 1% across Europe. It is estimated that implementing this strategy would create 3.7 million new jobs and increase gross domestic product in the European Union by EUR 800 billion. I made small calculations of what this means in Estonian terms. As far as I know, it has not been calculated what part of Estonia could be if there is such a great growth in Europe. We are actually talking here about EUR 2-3 billion when we reach the same level. The reason why the focus is primarily on top science and top scientists is that it is a catalyst. The existence of excellence motivates young people to come to science. If everything is mediocre, who wants to come to science. It is exactly the same that when there is a race of people, no one cares if Niinemets is there in the first, second, third, fourth, or fifth hundred, or second thousand. Actually, they're still interested in the ones on top. When Veerpalu wins the gold medal, many young people come skiing. It's not interesting if someone's out there somewhere mediocre or the last or the 10th, for example. And it's being investigated. There is a field of science like scientometry that explores the influence of scientists. It is indeed being dealt with in a very thorough manner and has shown that the impact of peaks is disproportionately higher. The peaks are the ones who move the science horizon forward, and behind the peaks come thousands of others who work with details. It is very important that there are vertices. If there are peaks, it is not just about Estonian industry, but about companies coming from all over the world, because they see that there are peaks and there is a high level of science here. The Europe 2020 strategy is driven by 'Knowledge-based Estonia', which has been extensively discussed today. In principle, it is a well-cut strategy for Estonia, but it is based directly on 'Europe 2020'. And here is really a measurable target: 1% of GDP. Obviously, the problem is also that in 2011, we had pretty high initial indicators. But at the same time, we wanted to get close to the European average. This is not an overachievement, because all European countries are aspiring that way. As we know, we have not reached that point at the moment. If we look back a little bit, according to Eurostat data for 2006, the percentage of Estonia was 1.2 or 1.3, in 2009 it was 1.42 and in 2015 it was 1.43. 2016/2017 will return to 2006. In that sense, the picture is not good. If we look at innovation, in reality we are many times behind leaders. Mait Raava has made a very good presentation on this subject, which is available on the website of the Estonian Research Council. This was followed by an article by Postimees, where the situation has been analysed very well. In terms of innovation, we do indeed have a very serious decline. If we also look at the fall in investment in R &amp; D, we will be in second place in Europe after Romania. In Estonian science as a whole, however, development has generally been impressive. Lithuania has, in the meantime, missed us in terms of the number of articles, but when we look at those scientists who are 1% of the researchers quoted in the world, that is really impressive. But that's too little. Really, there is a very, very serious fight in this competitive world. Who isn't in there may not even realize how hard it is to actually get inside this 1% and stay there because everyone else is moving on the same way. Mait Müntel, a doctor of physics, mentioned by the Prime Minister in his presentation, carried out a scientometric study entitled 'Estonian Scientists in 2008'. There's been a slight change in the situation, and there's been an increase in the peaks. But when we look at what it means in the context of the world, the first open-ended employment contract in the United States, given to a lecturer-level person in our sense, is here, and the full professor is here. At that time, we would have had only six persons corresponding to a full professor compared to the United States. The level is very high in the world, but it may not be perceived so well. However, for some reason it seems that scientists are doing very well, that we have very good funding. The problem, as I understand it, from a politician's point of view or a statesman's point of view, is that there is too little going into the economy, that there is too much going on for scientists and that there is too little going on for the economy. In the light of Oki's report, the idea is that we turn the tap off from the top, put pressure on it, then scientists all go into the economy, and our economy starts to grow. However, I am afraid that what actually happens is that they are not going into the economy, they are going out of Estonia. And if we're actually talking about this 1% target, then it's only going to take reproduction. This is not yet what would give a huge amount of people for the economy. Indeed, if we look at what other countries are doing, you will see that Canada invites its researchers to work, as well as France, several universities in the United States and Madrid. Last year I happened to talk to Erkki Truve, former Vice Rector of Tallinn University of Technology, in Dublin, with the President of the Irish Science Foundation. In Ireland, which is only twice as large as Estonia's population, there is a specific programme for introducing talent. A person simply wishes to come to Ireland and try to work there. The Committee shall examine the application and shall be invited to submit a full application. If the professor is approved, he will be awarded EUR 5 million per year to set up his own study group. It's the kind of level that's on the international scale. Talents are sought and bought all over the world. We have also dealt with this subject at the Academy of Sciences in the framework of the Researcher's Career Task Force. The problem is what happens to people. People are young, they come to science, they age, but sometimes there are other ways. How can you keep a person in this career model? It's very important. Why would he limp in there if he didn't have any prospects? A career perspective is therefore needed. We've been over this, and I think it's really necessary. What can happen if it doesn't exist? I will only draw your attention to the orange column on this slide. Nature Physics magazine shows the proportion of researchers over 60 years of age in physics in Italy. And now look at this orange column that shows the number under 30. This shows that Italian physics has actually run out of young people. However, the comparison with the United States, where there is nothing like this, is a perfect age distribution. I wrote about this in the publication Science in Estonia, where I gave an overview of all the leaders of Estonia's targeted, publicly funded projects. What do we see here? Black is the percentage of young people over the age of 65 and young people over the age of 65. Young people only had the opportunity to enter when the financing period ended. During the funding periods, the age grew all the time and then came to a breaking point. The age limit was abolished under the leadership of the most influential politician of the Estonian Päevaleht and since then the proportion of young people has been steadily decreasing. We're back in 1996. That is why this is 1% important, this is a question of perspective. Last year our working group proposed to the Ministry of Education how to improve this situation: to introduce a tenure ladder in Estonia, which is internationally certified, etc. Unfortunately, we passed it on in the pre-election period and the proposal remained dusty on the shelf. But I think we should definitely come back to this if we are to create a sense of perspective for young people. Why is this 1% issue still important? It is not about itself; it is about creating opportunities for young people. I think that the Ministry of Education and Research accounted for more money, and that's why all the money was distributed. If we look at what happens now, there are a number of numbers here: the amount distributed by IUT is for institutions, PUT is for personal research grandi, and then there are post-doctoral grandi. Actually, there's nothing to share. This year, three postdoctoral scholarships were awarded to me, and when I heard from the Prime Minister's speech that 227 doctoral degrees were defended, there are actually no places for young people to go in Estonian science today. The important thing is for young people to become independent at one point, but unfortunately, public funding has completely shut down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U102	Thank you, Ülo Niinemets! Any questions for the waitress? Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, thank you very much for an interesting, concise and a little bit of a second-rate presentation when we are used to hearing in this hall! Here's the question. You yourself represent the field of science, and very often science, science and humanities have been opposed. You also talked about how many scientists are among the 1% most quoted in the world. How, for example, should researchers of Estonian language and folk culture be quoted in international journals and how could this criterion be turned in their favour? In my opinion, humanitarian scientists are currently undervalued rather because they are not quoted enough. How do you feel about humanities?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U104	Thank you for your question. This year, an interesting event took place where members of the Academy of Sciences met associations associated with the Academy of Sciences. These included associations with natural sciences and humanities, the Estonian Society as well as many other associations that deal with Estonian national culture. It's amazing how good science is actually done and what books are issued. In Estonian, for example, there are many words indicating coastal areas, swamps or pieces of forest that have gone out of speech. It's just interesting! And look at our last names, for example, how many Oaks and Leppas we have. We're actually close to nature. It is a rare resource and it must certainly be investigated. One of the things that helps here is that the University of Tartu has created national sciences professorships. But that's not enough. On the other hand, it must be avoided once again that I study Estonian national sciences, because no one else does, and under this label there is poor science. There must be different metrics in this area. In my opinion, Estonian humanities are currently very well off. And if we look even more broadly at the social field, there are also huge opportunities in the European Union. Let's just take what we're talking about here about hate speech. When you read German newspapers and magazines, the question arises as to why scientists do not deal with refugeeism, why no scientist gives an opinion. Because it's such a toxic subject, no one dares to think anything about it. Studies and comments shall be made in a passionate manner. But this is exactly where scientists are needed, where science is needed. One particular topic would be the same hate speech. Someone should be looking into it, but nobody dares, because you're about to get a badge when you try to say something scientifically, objectively. There are actually quite a lot of these issues, and I think that the humanitarian field is very broad. But it must also not be said that when I engage in national culture, whatever I do, everything is valuable. No, it's not. It is also possible to do poor science there.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U105	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U106	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! During the last ten years, competence centres have started working in Estonia. I think, and perhaps you agree with me, that they should provide support for the development of regional entrepreneurship. How do you assess their work and contribution to entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U107	Thank you for your question. I have to admit, unfortunately, that I am not familiar with this at all, which may indicate that competence centres are not visible, or that I myself have been ignorant of them. I also heard from the Prime Minister's speech that they exist and operate, but they could be more visible and more bet.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U108	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your presentation, Ülo Niinemets. Let me ask you something else. There has been a lot of talk today in this Chamber that the state should finance research and development more. How do you see whether such an increase in the state's contribution could be useful both for young people to come to the scientific landscape and for the dignified departure of old people from there or where this contribution should be directed above all?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U110	Thank you for your question. In the case of financing, I think the greatest threat is when he becomes exponential. It's been there. Science funding has been increased by 30% at the same time and this money has actually been spent. For example, in 2007-2008, this money was spent. After there were very good projects, but none of them could be financed because the money had been spent. At the same time, there was a legitimate expectation that once the state gave, there would still be a need. I think that this must be taken into account when increasing funding. If we also look at the Oki report, there are many good ideas about what could be better. The important thing is that this goal is in front of your eyes. What I'm afraid of right now is that scientists are starting to lose perspective. The years 2000 and 2008 were 2009 when it was a difficult time of economic crisis. At that time, it was understandable why the funding of science decreased, but at the moment the scientific community did not have that understanding. It is a noble goal to reach this 1% of GDP, but research funding in absolute terms, for example, will fall by 3% until 2018. So it's actually a question of perspective and it's very bad when financing is jumpy. We're gonna give 40 million more at once, and then we're gonna say we're done. This money will be spent and there will be no effect. A peaceful, slow growth, as envisaged in the strategy, would be needed. This is not only necessary for researchers, but also for the Ministry of Education, for example, to plan funds, open measures, etc. One minute it'll be needed. Why, for example, could we not open structural support in two years? We'll take a lot more people, for example, but at some point we should let them go again. It must be such a calm growth, not a higher sum of sumacs being given at the same time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U111	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Professor Niinemets! In your presentation, you spoke of top science, top scientist, and opposed it to mediocrity. I remember a quote saying that vertices mean 1% talent and 99% work. Is there a formula for becoming a top researcher, whether it depends solely on money or whether it depends on general education? Please comment on this a little bit!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U113	Thank you for your question. There is nothing different in top science: there must be talent, but at the same time it is a wild and continuous work. It's not like in sports where people are active 25/30. up to the age of 50, 60 and 70, the top researchers are also 50, 60 and 70 years old. And it takes time to get your foot in the door. Everyone actually starts in a mediocre way, though, in the sense of indicators, it is, of course, that people themselves regard everything they do as valuable, and in fact it is valuable. However, the whole system is unfair in the sense that the top jobs are much greater than those who are just beginning. What I mean is that the vertices are important, they are also dragging everyone else, without underestimating those who actually develop details and make it possible for something to be used in industry, for example. However, when we are talking about higher education at all, I think that, in European terms, we must quite frankly admit to ourselves that the whole Bologna process, where the system 3+2, has failed. In the interests of political correctness, they do not want to say this, but, in fact, three years is too little to get an education. We already see this in both the public and private sectors, that three years is not enough. In the long run, this will lead to a decline in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U114	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! You are one of the few Estonian scientists who have received this prestigious and large-scale so-called ERC grant. What do you have to do to get it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U115	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U116	Gotta apply. It's like a lottery, so if you don't play, you don't win. He is actually a small advance, both for me and for Estonian science. But it is important that Estonian scientists apply for more. This is very important! Self-censorship is simply so strict that it does not dare to pursue. A thousand applications came from Turkey in the first round, a dozen came from Estonia and in the meantime a few came a year. The important thing is that scientists dare to pursue. The reviewers will, of course, give their comments. Two things are assessed: one is a project and the other is the applicant's CV for what he has done in the past. As time goes on, the better the CV and the quality of published articles will hopefully get. That's how you get it. You don't give anything for anything, you just have to work, there's no other formula.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U117	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U118	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker! How can we assess the targeting of the use of the European Union Structural Funds and the need for infrastructure development? This is directly relevant to the University of Life Sciences.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U119	Thank you for your question. I guess with these Structural Funds, it's starting to look a little bit like an arms race. I wouldn't say there was anything wrong with us at Earth University. However, when I look at universities in general, there were three phases, known to be a public infrastructure, the infrastructure was important for the institution and was an infrastructure at the level of the study group. Everything was actually competitive. The Commission, of course, reviewed things, and the money was not just shared. On the other hand, it still made it feel like, oh, you see, in this lab there's a great gas chromatograph, I'd like to, too. But every dick needs more people to make that dick work. In general, many of these instruments really work. How long, how much, it's hard to say. As for the gas chromatograph, we had one at first, and now we bought another, and they're both on 24 hours a day. So I think it's gotten to the point. Perhaps a little bit of the proportion was out of place so that human resources might have been better placed. At the same time, all structural instruments always require a project, and if the objective of the project is to buy a device and it has been obtained, then the project has been successful. If we pay a man's salary, the question arises as to whether the project was successful or not, or why you didn't tender. This is always the case with these structural instruments when people are paid. Bureaucracy was beautifully large and exhausting for the scientific community.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U120	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! In time, Estonian farmers were thrown into the water and many survived. Estonian scientists have developed an excellent ability to obtain money from elsewhere on the basis of a project. But if we put you as Prime Minister, for example, what would you really do? Name a couple or three of these important moments.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U122	Thank you. Yeah, that's a good question. I've never thought about it in this context. A very important point here is that if Estonia's goal is 300 doctors a year, some will ask again what to do with the 300 doctors, where we will put them all. Because they don't have a job and the research budget doesn't grow, eventually we've got bums and hugs here. In my own view, all members of the government, as well as members of the Riigikogu, could have a doctorate, I encourage it to be achieved, of course, alongside the work. But maybe I don't encourage you, because to my PhD students, I'll tell them it's a full-time job. The Riigikogu also carries out full-time work. I have already fully matured in the debate on the science budget, which will then be about some other subject. Then start doing more doctoral thesis this is not possible. Basically, I think it's very important to listen to the competences that exist. Could be a slogan to listen to a scientist. Good advice is never too much. In short, I think there is a general need to raise education levels in the public sector, not just in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U123	All right, now the vigilantes' questions are over. Thank you, Professor Niinemets! The next waitress is Professor Marek Tamm of Tallinn University. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U124	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! All I want to talk about here is the most important thing. And nothing more important comes to mind than the question, why do we need an Estonian state, which is the point of the Estonian state? I believe that discussing this issue is, in fact, the most important task of the Riigikogu, the justification for the existence of the whole raison d'être here. When I think about this question myself, as a humanitarian, I come to two reasons, two interrelated reasons, for which we have our own country. Firstly, we need our country to preserve the Estonian people, Estonian language and culture. This is a very trivial observation, it is embodied in the preamble to our constitution, and therefore there is no need to dwell on it. But it is certainly not enough to maintain it alone; we must be much more ambitious. When I think of what our ambition is, it doesn't come to my mind better than the ambition expressed by Jakob Hurt in 1807: "We must grow up by spirit. ' That is where I see the meaning of our statehood. To this point, I think that most of the issues we are struggling with are collapsing. And I think it is precisely from this point that the answers to these questions begin. But how can you become spiritually great? I mean, for starters, it doesn't hurt to be brave and to think big, think creatively, think original, think differently than others. But a mere appeal is not enough. Great thinking requires great knowledge. Originality requires new ideas. Creativity requires the ability to make connections. And as you can imagine, we get to a simple point. The great thinking of the national magnanamed, when the Romans refer to a knowledge-based society, requires educated citizens, requires strong science, requires an original culture of thought. And that is why I am unspokenly pleased that the Riigikogu took as a matter of national importance the discussion of our research and development activities, in addition to mentally higher education. In fact, there are few topics that would touch on the meaning of our statehood, the foundations of our statehood more than this issue, and I am a little surprised that there is no permanent scientific and educational committee in the Riigikogu. And if it is considered to be economically unreasonable, perhaps at least the Committee on Culture could also formally expand its reach by calling it a Committee on Culture and Science, and by redefining it as a Committee on Culture and Science. On the subject of today's debate, I have two news or reminders. And as usual, one news is good and the other less good. The good news is that Estonian science has done very well. You can even say more boldly: in times of nationalism, Estonian science has never been better, more successful than in the last ten years. There are many examples of success, most of which you have heard. To remind a few briefly, for example, academic Jüri Allik's calculations, according to which we are among the countries with the fastest growing scientific influence. On the basis of the citing of scientific articles, we are 27th in the world, which is a good place. Latvia is in the 70th place of 50th and Lithuania. Estonian science has developed much faster in the last ten years than the Estonian economy. Compared to 2006, the referability of Estonian researchers' work, thus their influence, has increased by 68%. Or another indicator. In Horizon 2020, the largest research and innovation programme in the European Union, Estonian researchers ranked fourth in the ranking of 28 Member States in terms of success this year after France, Belgium and Austria. Estonia has become one of the most successful applicants for European research funding. But now the bad news. The better days of Estonian science can be behind us. Indeed, we have reached a crossroads or a breaking point where a recession may be ahead, possibly as fast as the current rise. And the reason is not in scientists, but in our system of organisation and funding for science. Here too, I would like to limit myself to a few examples, so that we do not pass the time and become too melancholy. There should be no more news to anyone that Estonian state spending on R &amp; D is in a clear downward trend over the last three years, boosted by inflation. Only recently, Statistics Estonia announced that last year there were 12% fewer R &amp; D spending in Estonia than in the previous year. And we can be pretty sure this year's not better. In essence, the Estonian state takes money out of its most internationally successful and competitive field, figuratively trying to boil soup from a chicken that lays eggs. I will give you one concrete and relief example. As you know, the Estonian state divides the bulk of its research money into so-called institutional research grants. It is money designed to finance stronger scientific groups in our country. These are research groups, often due to decades of work, with large investment in infrastructure. As you know, the Ministry of Education and Research has decided to cancel the institutional research grants for the pro-pro part of this year's competition, and there is no money. This decision violated the legitimate expectations of many study groups to ensure the continuation of their successful research to date. The public criticism, however, was hilly. As many research teams had already received the five-year grant money in the last two years, it was hoped that the annual interruption would pass without any major damage. Unfortunately, we are now in a situation where the Ministry of Education and Research is very likely not to announce the next year's competition for institutional research grants. For the same reason, budgetary resources do not allow this. But that's not all. It is likely that the competition will not be announced in the following year, as the budgetary forecast indicates that, without additional public funding, it will be possible to organise the competition for institutional research grants at best only in 2018. In essence, this means that the Estonian state has declared a moratorium on Estonian science for three or four years. Science is, unfortunately, human beings and ideas; they cannot be stopped or frozen; they can only be driven away, rejected. But let us come back to the good news and ask how to explain the success of Estonian science so far. Of course, we have had good luck with good scientists, talented people. Similarly, the success of Estonian science is due to the many good decisions made by the government and the Riigikogu over the last few decades. I do not want to embellish history, but the foresight of the decision-makers at the time must be acknowledged. The current government and Riigikogu are faced with the task of being at the height of their predecessors to take decisions that would ensure the success of Estonian science so far. You don't have to start with an empty page. The science funding task force convened by the previous Minister for Education did an important preparatory work a year ago. Their conclusions are available to all of you. And I also do not mention the important principles set out in the R &amp; D &amp; I strategy for the years 2014 to 2020. Parliament is a place where words are spoken. This fact is referred to by the name of the institution, which is derived from the old French language, this is the place where people speak, just as I am speaking here today. However, Parliament is a very peculiar place to speak. Words are being done here. Here words have the power to change reality. Members of the Riigikogu, please take this opportunity and help us make our country big by spirit! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U125	Questions for the waitress. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, Mr. Tamm! I will grasp this juncture of your presentation, where you emphasised that Estonian science has been faster in recent years than the Estonian economy. At the same time, you reminded yourself of the danger that it might not go on like this; the better times of science may also be behind you. I put my question in this way: what is the impact of science on the economy, whether it has not yet appeared, or what to do in order to make it more effective, both for economic development and, more broadly, for social and political processes? Do we have reason to assume that this will happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U127	Thank you for your question. From a further point of view, there is a clear link between the level of R &amp; D and social well-being and economic performance in a wide range of studies. There's no need to prove it again, it's already proven. What makes a scientist unique is that he is international by nature, and the science of excellence in Estonia also affects the international arena and the international economy, including. It is very difficult for us to imagine what the development of the Estonian economy would have been if it had not been for the rapid development of science, but it is clear that the development of Estonian society, including the economy, has also been in direct connection with the development of science. Another aspect of the development of science is that its effects occur over a very long period of time. This, I dare say, the causal link between the level of R &amp; D and the level of society and economy dates back years and years. I am sure that the very rapid development of Estonian science in the last ten years will feed our economy for a long time, even if this is not immediately evident in all growth indicators of the Estonian economy. But to think that it is possible to develop the economy without developing science is just a crazy idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U128	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U129	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation. My question goes back to the report by Mr Ok and the Scientific and Development Council. After all, this report concerned humanities, including education and social affairs, very little, or even less. The only concrete proposals were on how these bodies could be merged. What do you think, and why do you want to join the Institute of Estonian Language, either with the University of Tartu or with the University of Tallinn? Shouldn't the Institute of Estonian Language, our own language institute, be a state institution?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U130	Thank you. Once again, more generally, there is a strange contradiction in Mr Ok's report. The report begins with traditional bows towards the Preamble of the Estonian Constitution, emphasising the importance of preserving Estonian language and culture, but the rest of the report does not return to this topic and is based solely on the logic of efficiency, concentration and economic indicators. Humanities, at least a large part of them, do not fit in this logic. This is where many internal problems and contradictions in this report are buried. He works very well in some areas, but not in others. This is where I can actually join Kalle Muuli, who has spoken earlier, who said that the national sciences are narrower and the humanities in general are an important part of the monopoly of the Estonian state and it is the responsibility of the Estonian state to ensure internal competition in this field. And the internal competition in this field can only be kept alive and supported if we have several centres, several study chairs, several research and development institutions involved in the study of Estonian language, Estonian culture, Estonian literature, Estonian folklore, etc. In the light of this logic, I find it very short-sighted to bring together all our research institutions in the field of national culture under one roof, because it works precisely against this principle of supporting and developing internal competition. So briefly, I do not consider it reasonable to merge the Institute of Estonian Language with the University of Tallinn, either for Tartu or for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U131	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U132	Thank you, good Chairman. Thanks for the presentation. I would like to know what are the real reasons why the state, or rather the government, is not contributing as much as it needs to be. Is that a language barrier? The previous report also gave the impression that there has been no generational change among scientists as quickly as anywhere else. This has taken place among politicians, the oldest minister is the Minister of Education and Science; others have a completely different background and experience. Is there one reason why we cannot communicate with each other? Can it also be said that there is no cooperation between scientists, government, political parties, civil society organisations, a third sector that could have more influence and send a message?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U133	Thank you. I think there are several reasons why the state has not been able to prioritise science sufficiently. But one is indeed the lack of scientific knowledge. And here I bring back to the comment of a good colleague, Ülo Niinemetsa, that the lack of people with a degree in science stands out both in the Prime Minister's office and in the State Chancellery in general. Unfortunately, our government is struggling in an environment where they are not even exposed to real research in Estonia in the form of their closest advisors. I was surprised, for example, that in the State Chancellery I hope that only one person with a doctorate and his part-time share will work for me. Toomas Kiho. I don't think it's reasonable, I don't think it's right if we have a national target of 300 doctors a year. Why does the state consider it necessary to raise doctors if it does not take any of them into public service? I think that through this, through daily contact with people who have learned to be a scientist with a degree in science, there is also the knowledge of the need for science, the importance of science. A person who lives in his own bubble, who gets his information from social media and the press, may not even think of the need and importance of science. In this sense communication is important, but it begins with the formation of its own team.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U134	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U135	Honourable President! Honorable waitress, Mr. Tamm! How do you assess the level of Estonian humanitarian scientists in an international context?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U136	Thank you for your question. Of course, I find it difficult to answer other than very good. But the question is how to measure it. I, too, often juggled, did so in my presentation with the figures on quotibility, the number of patents and all other indicators with which it is very difficult to measure in the field of humanities. The impact of humanities, the effect is much longer. The quotations of one book gather over the years and decades. So it is very difficult for me to find a measurable basis on which to say how well humanitarian scientists are doing. But if I go to conferences around the world, for the last 15 years, I have noticed that the influence of the presence of Estonian humanitarians is constantly increasing. I think that there is no longer any area of humanitarianism in the world where Estonian researchers would not be informed. Their work will be read and they will have effect. So the Estonian humanitarian scientists are much stronger when the public is often impressed with them, and they are not stuck in Estonia, in Estonian. Much of our best humanitarian scientists have a very strong international influence. And our happiness and misfortune is that we must be able to work for two audiences at once: the home and the world, the urbby to the orb. We have to write in Estonian and English in parallel. The other way around, why did I say it was our luck? Because it forces us to think one thing over and over and over again.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U137	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U138	I'm gonna grab that last statement that you have to tell two audiences at once. If the level of the researcher is measured very much by quotivity and internationalisation, it is unfortunate that the scientific excellence is becoming less and less available in Estonian. When I wrote my doctoral thesis and did it in Estonian, colleagues said that I was a little crazy about who still reads the work in Estonian. I thought Estonians sometimes mattered. But the truth is that the number of doctoral thesis in Estonian is low. If we look at the crossroads of research and development, how do you think it would be possible to guarantee that science of excellence will continue in the future and that scientific discussions will be held in full in Estonian, that our books will exist in Estonian and that the doctoral work in Estonian will be typical rather than rare.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U139	The brief answer is that we must ensure the multilingualism of Estonian science. It is shortsighted to protect only Estonian-language science or only English-language science. Science must be multilingual. I wouldn't lay down any rules here. I fully agree that there are a number of areas where, for example, certain types of texts, including doctoral thesis, it is wise to write in English as it also guarantees high-quality opponents. It can also provide better quality guidance. But there are a number of other areas where the best specialists are Estonian-speaking people and where the content of the work already favours the use of the Estonian language. It is important, as we know, to feel the genre and the auditorium. Different target groups must be able to write in different ways, and I think it is also one of the strengths of the humanitarians that we have learned to write to different audiences in different ways and languages. It is precisely to uphold this wealth that is actually our mission in science in general too: to speak different people in different languages, not to be stuck in one language.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U140	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U141	Dear Marek Tamm! When Estonians Ilmar Reepalu became Mayor of Malmö, the first thing he did was pick him up 20 years ago and set up a university there. It is now Sweden's largest university, where many want to study, because it has very well integrated disciplines, which is where the modern Leonardo da Vincis are trained. How are the different branches of our science integrated? It seems to me that it is very bad, because when naturalists give the rural population all kinds of recommendations on how to preserve nature, social scientists, for example, at the same time offer options for the disappearance of human settlements from these regions. For example, the opinion of cultural historians has not been heard at all in the course of the administrative reform. Shouldn't our disciplines be better integrated to keep Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U142	I can only support the idea that we must encourage the integration of scientific disciplines. The problems we face today are interdisciplinary by nature, integrated. It is not enough to look at one scientific area here. But these concrete examples point to political decisions or some sort of implementation step rather than real cooperation between scientists. I dare say that in recent years there has been a significant increase in interdisciplinary cooperation, also in universities where this has been encouraged at the official level, from teaching to the presentation of joint research projects and the creation of interdisciplinary research centres of excellence. Whether all these steps in integration have reached a level where decisions need to be made to build Rail Baltic or where to complain about it is a matter of its own. But I think it has been understood, at least in the academic sphere, that disciplines alone cannot cope with the problems of today's world. Cooperation is needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U143	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U144	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! You said figuratively here that the government of Taavi Clothing is trying to boil soup from a chicken that lays eggs. Sounds familiar. We already have a herd of cattle in a meat factory because the government does not find the money to support Estonian farmers who have managed to bring them to the level of production. What would you do with this golden egg laying chicken if you were a prime minister or a member of the Riigikogu here among us?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U145	Thank you for your question. I think that this chicken can do what a reasonable master does: feeds it, cares for it and ensures that it continues to lay these golden eggs. That was the focus of my story. As I said, the steps to be taken have been written on paper and there is a complete consensus among Estonian scientists. Until recently, there was also a consensus in the Ministry of Education and Research, hopefully it will remain there. These steps are not several, three or four at all to ensure the success of Estonian science and the production of gold eggs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U146	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U147	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Oak! You certainly have a position on the higher education network. Do you think the university network providing higher education today is sufficient in Estonia? Are colleges carriers or collaborators in this system?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U148	Thank you. It's an important question. More generally, I think that the network of higher education institutions is quite optimal in Estonia. I am not part of the campus who thinks that we should join another university, for example, the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre or the Estonian Academy of Arts. I think it makes no sense for these universities to have their niche, their place, their calling and join forces. But I do agree that college is a burning subject. In fact, we have a situation where universities have to make regional policy with their money. We know that most colleges in Tallinn and Tartu University are in poor economics. They are subsidised by other means in the recognition that they are very important centres of mental education in their area. Here it would make sense for universities, local authorities and the state to cooperate significantly more intensively to ensure the survival of these colleges. I know that both at Tallinn University and, as far as I know, at the University of Tartu, one or the other college is closed because it is not worthwhile. And you can't pay, like many things in this country don't pay off, but it doesn't make sense to keep this country.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U149	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U150	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker! Work in science often requires clarification, visibility, clarification. Understanding, meaning, relationships with our own lives and our daily lives are important. How to make science more visible, and what to deny, more popular? What could be the task of scientists themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U151	Thank you. This, too, is a very important issue and, fortunately, I think that the importance of it has become increasingly understood in Estonia. We've got a bunch of pretty well-functioning science popularization programs. Universities themselves are also making efforts to do this by developing all kinds of popular formats to familiarise themselves with their knowledge. We have various research centres. But I agree that not all scientists have been able to link this activity to their main work. We have often overlooked the person in Estonia for whom we work in this very serious international competition. It is clear that as a humanitarian scientist, dialogue with the audience is much easier. I didn't feel like I was dealing with something so esoteric that I couldn't pass it on to other people. However, I think that this is a much more acute issue in many other sciences. So, as I said, we are moving in the right direction, but there is still a great deal to be done. And I agree that the burden is on the scientific community rather than on those intermediaries who, in my opinion, are doing their job excellently.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U152	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U153	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for a very meaningful and good presentation. After the unreasonably overoptimistic talk of the Prime Minister, it was very sobering how to say it. I ask you, however, how big you think the increase in the funding of Estonian science should be. Of course, there is no upper limit, we may also go to the heights of the skies, but how much funding should be increased in order to ensure the survival and development of Estonian science?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U154	Thank you for your question. The overall reference is in place: the country's R &amp; D &amp; I strategy, which has been repeatedly mentioned here today, shows 1% of GDP. The Research Finance Group of the Ministry of Education has identified specific amounts for the next three years: 10 million euros per year would ensure the sustainability of Estonian science for the next generation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U155	Thank you, Professor Marek Tamm! The presentations and questions and answers are over. I'm sorry, but as manager, I'm forced to say that there are 4 minutes and 45 seconds to negotiate. Laine Randjärv on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U156	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating the Riigikogu as chairman of the Science and Innovation Support Group on the initiative of the Free Party to discuss the topic 'Estonian R &amp; D choices, opportunities and crossroads' as an important national issue in this Chamber. Thank you very much. I will now speak on behalf of the Reform Party Group. This autumn, the topics related to the field of science have clearly come to a close for a number of reasons. On the one hand, the fall in funding for research, the lack of link between scientific achievements and economic development, and certainly the TAN report, which gave rise to a sharp discussion in society, are critical. However, in my report, I would not focus on the TAN report, as this issue has already been discussed sufficiently. I will focus on the area of humanitarianity. It is common that in the context of government governance, the most talk is about the science-based economic model and it is said that it is driven mainly by the real and natural sciences. It contrasts humanities with them. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that naturalists cannot be without a humanitarian role, because all education, including science, is based on the existence of language and letter. At the seminar organised by the Estonian Language Council in autumn, the question was raised that the humanities are not represented in the same TAN, or Research and Development Council, and that language-related research has been underestimated. This is at a time when Estonian humanities ratings have risen in the rankings of generally accepted world universities QS World University Rankings. I would like to mention, for example, the fact that the humanities of the University of Tartu improved their position in the rankings of scientific disciplines compared to last year, reaching a position of 286 in 302. The University of Tartu as a whole is in the 400th place in the new edition. At the same time, the potential of humanitarian scientists has not been sufficiently exploited as an additional force for the development of the Estonian economy. quoting Margit Sutrop, Professor of the Dean of Humanities and Arts at the University of Tartu: 'The high ranking of humanities shows that humanities have both national and international importance. Studies written in different languages, doctoral and master programmes in English, guest lecturers, foreign students, performances in different parts of the world, many international scientific contacts and participation in many collaborative networks and research projects have ensured good international visibility for the humanities. ' It must be mentioned, among other things, that we also have competition for recognition as a science within the humanitarian field. Old, traditional humanities, for example, do not value creative sciences sufficiently. Creative sciences include music, art and theatrical science, not to mention cultural and historical science. They must continue to prove the necessity of their existence not only in competition with science and science, but also within the humanities sector. If for a moment the focus is on scientific and economic co-operation for the benefit of the state, then let them mention the concept of 'creative economy'. Creative economy is an area where the creative sciences mentioned above can contribute to the development of the Estonian economy. Research into cultural history, research activities related to music, film and theatrical science and art history support institutions such as the Estonian Art Museum, Estonian Theatre and Music Museum, etc. Let us remember how important the opening of Kumu played in the activation of cultural tourism, which supported its economy. Notke 'Surmatants' displayed in the church concert hall of Niguliste invites many art scientists from all over the world. The organisation of world-famous artists' exhibitions requires a thorough knowledge and study of art history. Art history is closely linked to the themes of heritage conservation, thus also related to the field of architecture and construction, which in turn can be linked to economic development. I will give an example, based on the "Estonian Language and National Memory" project funded by the Ministry of Education and Research of the Republic of Estonia. This study was initiated by the music department of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre in 2004. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U157	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U158	Thank you. Originally, it was designed to map and study sound recordings that were relevant to the history of performance art in Estonian archives and libraries. Initially, the focus was on the 1930s-1950. Already at the beginning of the project, it became apparent that the library of Aarhus University has preserved valuable material in the Danish national sound archive, in May 1939 the company Skandinavisk Grammophon and the matrices of Estonian music recordings made in Tallinn in cooperation with the Estonian State Broadcasting. In cooperation with the Danes, the "Estonian Sound Recordings 1939" sub-project was born with the aim of bringing these sound recordings to the audience. In addition, the sound recordings of the first decades of the Estonian National Male Choir have also been studied in more depth and a study of Gustav Ernesaks as a conductor of the traditional style of music between the interpree and men's songs has been completed. International cooperation projects in creative science, however, can also broaden our knowledge of health promotion. For example, participating as a partner in a project financed by the Canadian Foundation for Social Sciences and Humanities made it possible to explore how to improve and maintain health through singing and related breathing exercises. Liina Lukas, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Tartu, refers to Sirp's interdisciplinary memory studies in an interview published on 4 September 2015. Literary scientist, psychologist, folklorist, and ethnologist treat memory differently. From the point of view of gender studies, new questions may arise with regard to the subject of memory. The creative sciences are related to song and dances, PÖFF and other major cultural events organised in our country, bringing to Estonia the world-wide film art elites or tens of thousands of choir music enthusiasts. The preparation of these events, however, again requires a scientific perspective, knowledge of cultural history. This is supported by the cultural management curriculum of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, which is certainly also important in the context of creative industries. Cultural management as a science is an interdisciplinary field which, in addition to professional and market-economy knowledge, is increasingly linked to marketing psychology and journalism, thus studying the impact of language and many other creative sciences. Returning to the much-spoken TAN report, I would like to stress, on the basis of the above, that this material has underestimated the need for the development and development of creative sciences and its impact on the development of the country. In the following paragraph, I represent my personal position and agree with Marek Tamme's view: it is crucial that the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre and the Estonian Academy of Arts remain independent public universities. I believe that research in these higher education institutions should be an important factor in the decisions and proposals, development plans and strategies of both the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Research. However, when it comes to consolidating higher education institutions, it is precisely these higher education institutions that should be concentrated on cultural sciences. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-15_U159	Honourable Riigikogu! The Tuesday session was closed. Have a good day at work! Closure of the sitting at 2.03 p.m.
