ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good morning. We will begin the session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 1st working week. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please, Olga Ivanova!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to report to Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu regarding the high number of drug deaths in Estonia. The European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA) published a European report on drug problems in 2014, in which Estonia stood out with record figures for 2012, directly reflecting overdose deaths and indirectly drug-related diseases, accidents, violence and suicides. Compared to previous drug use, the current situation is more complex and complex. New psychoactive substances such as opioids, which are very potent fentanyl, may become overdoses as early as the first time. According to Katri Abel-Ollo, researcher at the Institute for Health Development, the number of deaths due to overdoses had decreased to 120 in 2013, but according to statistics this year 43 Estonians have died as a result of overdose of a strong drug called fentanyl. In this context, we have quite a few questions for the Minister of Justice, but the main thing is what our drug police have done so that there are no more deaths like this in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U3	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U4	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Conservative People's Party, I bring to the Riigikogu a draft law amending the status of a member of the Riigikogu, which consists of only one short section. Namely, we wish to delete § 30, which is the section on expense benefits, in the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu. Our position is that the salary of a member of the Riigikogu and the state funding of political parties is sufficient to cover the communication of members of the Riigikogu with voters. In addition, this is a practice that is seriously damaging to the people's sense of justice, and we do not think that it should be continued. According to the current law, a member of the Riigikogu is compensated for up to 30% of the salary of a member of the Riigikogu on the basis of the cost documents and the total amount is about one million euros per year. In a situation where the government coalition seeks to cover the sources of electoral promises, this million euro offers the easiest solution to find additional money for children's benefits or even for social tax reductions. Of course, it does not cover all needs, but it would be a very good signal to the public. Since it does not involve expenditure on the state budget but revenue, there is no need to show any additional sources of cover. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U5	Good fellows! I have adopted one draft and one inquiry on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Now we're conducting a presence check. 76 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 25. There is also a clarification on today's agenda. Indeed, during the debate on today's only item on the agenda, Igor Gräzin, Member of the Commission, will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U6	Let's go to today's agenda. The first and only item on the agenda is the first reading of Bill No 7 of the Estonian Central Party's Act supplementing the acquisition of immovable property. I would like to present a speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Have you ever seen a member of the Riigikogu kneel here next to the court? I suppose never. It's going to happen right now. I want to make a request to you on your knees. Unfortunately, the remote's microphone is stationary, but you have enough imagination and imagine that I'm on my knees here. The prayer is this: I ask you to give your colleague, who has the same rights as you, ten minutes! Listen to me, please! Because usually when a representative of the opposition is present, one half of the hall is now here all messed up, running away. And then there will be a vote on a bill that has no idea of it. Today, in ten minutes, I will try to explain my request to you. Thank you, Valdo! Ladies and gentlemen, you have some cards ahead of you. Please look at them! The first map gives an idea of a small part of the border with the eastern neighbour of Estonia. The red line is marked with the Narva border. If you look higher, you'll see that there's Narva-Jõesuu. It's a little over six kilometers between the two cities. And here you see the white spot that Kudruküla is written in. Its territory is five square kilometers large. The territory I'm talking about is four square kilometers. There are half of Narva gardening cooperatives. The rest of us make up the same size of territory, about four square miles [4 sq km] of them. When it comes to real estate, there is usually such an idea in the Riigikogu that we are talking about tens of hectares, sometimes square kilometres. Look at the next picture, please! You've got Kudruküla in front of you. In total, this yellow painted territory is slightly more than five square kilometres, with 4,2 square kilometres under these gardening cooperatives, and 4,500 properties are located there. In total, there are about 7,000 properties. You see, there are these little dots here, these are houses. And now that you're calculating, you're going to get that the territory under and next to one house is less than ten centuries. We are talking about the possibility of buying this land for a citizen of the Republic of Estonia and a citizen of the European Union. And, of course, it can be bought by legal persons. Now look here again: there's Narva next door. The territory of Narva is 84 square kilometres, with 62000 people living there. Estonian citizens make up 47% of them. And these other 53% have no right to buy land in a gardening cooperative two kilometres from their city. They are not Estonian citizens. They live here for the third generation, they pay taxes, they have long-term residence permits. But they're not allowed to. And I repeat: it is not about tens of hectares, it is not about square kilometres. They're not allowed to buy ten centuries with a little one-storey house. This question is before you for the 13th time in this Chamber. One time the bill came to third reading, but before the vote, somebody in the government suddenly found out, oh, my gosh, that's not our bill! The Committee on Rural Affairs has discussed the matter and started to support the law, which would include a provision that would give the long-term Estonian people the opportunity to buy these unfortunate ten centuries. Why have we been opposed to this? We've been trying to find out. Over the years, the Department of Defense and the Ministry of the Interior have been asked why you are not in favour. During the previous term, a report was received from the Ministry of Defence confirming that they have nothing against it. This change is without prejudice to the state's defence capabilities, and it is absolutely not disturbing on any side. So the Department of Defense doesn't mind. They asked the Home Office for an analysis. This document was received by the Commission and we discussed it. We discussed why a person who was born in Estonia and who lives and works here cannot buy a small piece of land in the area. The Ministry of the Interior could not justify this with today's problems. He based an analysis on the explanatory memorandum to the Law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property on the option adopted 20 years ago. According to this explanatory memorandum, which meant a period of 20 years ago, national defence restrictions are necessary: 1) to organise the work of the internal security authorities of the State; 2) to preserve the territorial integrity of the State; 3) to ensure constitutional order and security. It's a sacred cow. You say those words, and a person turns his brain off. However, there were some attempts in the Commission to ask: please explain, for example, what does it mean that it is necessary to organise the work of the national internal security authorities. The Ministry responds: 'Anyone who wishes to acquire a property would be able to acquire it if the licence were abolished, so a situation could arise where the property is acquired by a natural or legal person from a foreign country. " Foreign! Well, our law doesn't say 'foreign'. In this amendment, this bill is clearly stated, I read to you: 'This restriction does not apply to a natural person residing in Estonia on the basis of a long-term resident's residence permit. " Who says here that land will be sold there to random foreigners? We understand that there isn't one. Unfortunately, it has to be said that the people who wrote this explanatory statement did not read the bill. All right, there's no other reason to be here. When the Commission went to debate, it was said more or less the same thing that it still says: that if such landowners were to emerge, they would not be able to be contacted operationally. And now we imagine there is an Estonian citizen who has ten centuries of land there, and he sits there 24 hours a day waiting to be contacted by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Is that how you see this picture? What does it mean in today's world to not be able to get in touch? We're serious people, how could such a reason have even been written in the case of a serious matter? Point 2: This is necessary to preserve the territorial integrity of the State. I would remind you that it is the Ministry of Defence that is responsible for maintaining the territorial integrity of the state, and it is responsible for that, which does not have the slightest objection to this bill. They're okay with it. Let's take a look at this. The Ministry of the Interior states: on the basis of the historical interpretation of regulation and its explanatory memorandum, it can be assumed on the basis of the historical interpretation; at present they cannot come up with anything; they interpret what was 20 years ago! just that the legislator's intention may have been to rule out a situation where persons living in a particular region, in particular in border areas, pose a threat to the territorial integrity of the State. Let's look at that map again. Now, this is Narva. And about 32,000 people living there are the ones that the Ministry of the Interior says they could be a threat to the territorial integrity of the country. But they can buy a house in Narva, an apartment, any real estate. There's no danger. But when it comes to a ten-century bit away... I believe that, in this composition, I will come before you again with this bill, perhaps ten more times. But this one time I'll explain it to you this way. That's funny, that's ridiculous, that's bullshit! The territorial integrity of the country depends on one Aunt Maal being sold ten centuries somewhere in the Gladiator, in some gardening cooperative with that name! Crazy house! One more point. This point says that this restraint is needed to ensure constitutional order and security. And this so-called analysis explains it so that, like the previous paragraph, it must be assumed, on the basis of the historical interpretation of the regulation and the explanatory memorandum, that the legislator's will could have been that we do not know what was 20 years ago, in this Chamber, as far as I know, there is only one person who can answer this question, and he is not currently in the Chamber to be ruled out by a situation in which certain persons living in a region and, above all, in border areas who may be in danger of constitutional order by their activities. Let's look at the map again! Right here, in this zone that's headed towards Narva-Jõesuu, there's a gardening cooperative that's inside Narva territory. There's no limit. There are six or seven gardening cooperatives, and they are all on the banks of the Narva River, not in the woods like this. This one is a mile to even four kilometers from the river. This is where they're on the riverside, but they're not a threat! About 800 properties in this zone are not a threat to constitutional order, but the rest are a threat. You know, I promised I wouldn't take more than ten minutes from you, but I want to ask you: if it is understandable that some thousands of people are loyal to the Estonian state, in my eyes, it is a loyal person who doesn't break the law and pay taxes, but if they are treated like this, what do you call it? And do we want this process to continue? When there was a debate in the Committee on Rural Affairs, the first time was not finished, it was decided that we would wait for the Minister of the Interior. The Minister of the Interior came, repeated what I was reading to you right now, and then went to the vote. It was 5: 5: 1. It is good practice that the chairman of the committee should have put to the vote the proposal, as the report of the Ministry of the Interior shows, not to conclude the first reading. But since a very experienced politician saw the moods in the Commission, he put a completely different proposal to the vote: to finish the first reading. And there was no majority in favour. But if the practice had been followed and the vote did not stop the proposal, it would have been 5:5:1 and we would now be talking to you about finishing the first reading, we might be setting up a working group that goes on the ground, and let the border guards or the Ministry of Internal Affairs explain what these threats are. By the way, last week the Gardening Cooperatives Commission got together, I talked to the presidents, some have been in office for 10 to 15 years. No one remembers having been approached either by the border guard or by any other authority with a request relating to the border. They didn't have it in their memory. And no one's really gonna fight it. So, first of all, this has already been the case in the Commission and, over time, it has also been that practically everyone supports this change. But there's a vote going on in this hall. You understand that this is not a change in the tax system, it is not a matter of principle such as major political issues. You understand that this is not the annual budget of the country, which must definitely be voted as the group has told you. Is it not so much self-respect for a public body that, in making some small decision that is needed to improve people's lives, either to express his opinion or to show his behaviour, for example by not voting, that the matter should actually be examined? Ladies and gentlemen, I've been really bored with this bill, but Carthage must be destroyed. For me, it's litmus paper that shows how you feel about your compatriots. The costaars have clearly told me that if you weren't at the top of this initiative and if it weren't for Narva and the Russians, this issue would have been resolved a long time ago, ten years ago. When you see this wave coming from Africa and the Middle East, do you really not want civil peace in your own country? Please think! I have explained the situation to you: the Ministry of Defence supports this bill, does not object, does not see any problem. The Ministry of the Interior does not find any arguments and seeks support for a decision taken 20 years ago. And if you're asked to give a concrete example, they can't say anything. Let it through at first reading! Let's go there and talk to people! Take a look at this situation! But it takes a normal decision to be taken today, not a purely political one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U8	Thank you. You have questions too. Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U9	Thank you! Good waitress! Which living person with a long-term resident's residence permit in Estonia could most likely hold and love Estonia more? Does he who lives and works here but doesn't own real estate, or does he who lives and works here and owns real estate up to 0.2 hectares? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U10	Thank you, colleague. I'd say that's a rhetorical question, wouldn't you? We are pragmatic people and we understand what kind. The one with the real estate, the one with the anchor that's holding him. A good question to which the answer is that short.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U11	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The draft law states very precisely that it concerns some 180000 people who live here with a long - term residence permit. How many of these 180,000 people are citizens of the Russian Federation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U13	Foreign countries generally keep the number of their citizens secret, so it is a matter of assessment. Our officials claim that there are fewer citizens of the Russian Federation in Estonia every year, and there are currently between 90000 and 95000. The Russian embassy, on the other hand, is talking about 110000 of 120,000. The right number is somewhere in between. No one can say exactly because embassies just don't give you that information.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U14	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U15	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The executive function is generally to solve different issues in the country. On this draft, the Ministry of the Interior has found a number of arguments as to why this amendment cannot be resolved. Is there some kind of attitude going through these Internal Affairs positions, or is there some rational part of these proposals how to resolve this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U16	There's always some excuse to keep this problem going. In this case, the Minister of Foreign Affairs is talking about about ten ministers with whom I have spoken about this topic, about the fact that in the winter they are drawing up the concept of border guard and the border guard and gardening cooperatives from it. I think that Mr Gräzin will certainly talk about this. But is the state of Estonia a country where border surveillance depends on gardening cooperatives? You want to make this completely abnormal. It's not like that! That's a question in itself. Yeah, the main pretext was, don't pass the law, we'll come with this new strategy, and then we'll see about it. I've heard this song for 15 years. And it is clearer that in six months we may have another minister, maybe a third or a fourth already on this post from this moment on, and then they'll come up with something again. It's an economic question, but it's also a question of ethics and morality whether you recognize those people who live in Narva as their countrymen or whether they are enemies to you. That's how I'd put the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U17	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I just want to give an example that at this point in time, this country cannot be bought by private individuals who may have lived in Estonia all their lives. Many of them were born in Estonia. At the same time, a businessman living in Moscow can set up a company in Estonia and buy all these parcels and use them as he wants. It is particularly amazing to look at what is happening in agriculture today. Foreign investors from other parts of Europe, Russia, China buy farmland in Estonia and not in small pieces. They buy hundreds of hectares, and no one tells them anything. But if we have a local person who wants to buy a patch, he can't. Is that normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U19	Thank you. I left that topic out. I promised I'd talk for ten minutes, but I already passed. However, let us discuss this subject. Has anyone been interested in how much of Estonia has been bought by foreign persons, both natural and legal? It's a huge territory. By the way, whether it is a border area or not, a legal person can buy it at any time. If you go online and look at the companies that provide this service, you will see that a businessman can set up a company for the purposes he needs within one day. We are very progressive, we have this super well going in Estonia and nobody cares who the founder is, where he comes from and where his money comes from. He comes and buys land. As much money as you have, that's what you buy. There's no problem here. That should be the problem. By the fact that the territory of Estonia goes to foreigners. I am talking about people who live in Estonia on the basis of a long-term residence permit. Don't forget that! Any person whose background is unknown, who the fuck knows who, well, remember even this residence permit scandal when it finally turned out that there were two mob bosses on the list. Nobody checked the background. And then when the company's formed, they don't investigate anything. The money's fine. You're right, colleague. That's right. Any person can buy half of Estonia, not a word to say. However, if someone wants to buy ten centuries as a natural person from a gardening cooperative, it is forbidden.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U20	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U21	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! That's my interest. You have now built this defensive speech on the contradiction between the district of Kudruküla and Narva. But are there other areas in Estonia or, rather, along the eastern border that you consider problematic? Are there any of these security issues elsewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U22	Thank you, George! Why did I make those cards? I saw such questions coming. Look again, here's the material that illustrates. In the 1960's, at the time of Khrushchev, land began to be given to large companies, but since everyone who had more than six centuries was a cuckoo, the workers were given six centuries. Later, relief came, given for eight centuries, and then began to be quite reprehensible, given for ten and twelve centuries. These gardening cooperatives with these tiny parcels are there. There used to be big companies, and that's how they used to be. There are no more companies. There is no Kreenholm Manufaktuur, whose employees received land there, is no longer the Baltijets factory, but these people have remained and these centuries have remained. They are where these huge companies have been. If you look at the Estonian border, it is only in Ida-Virumaa that they are in this form, no more. That's another thing. I note that the draft law does not apply to a natural person residing in Estonia on the basis of a long-term resident's residence permit, who acquires an immovable property of up to 0,2 hectares. It is safe to do 0.1 hectares, or ten hundredths, and it has been put here for 20 centuries that maybe someone who has 10,5 centuries will come and start solving the problem again. I do not know that there are farms somewhere in Estonia where there are 0.2 hectares of land. It is usually 20 hectares and sometimes 200 hectares. Maybe somewhere along the border there are objects like this, but they're not going under this law under any circumstances, because they're much bigger. There's no such problem anywhere in Ida-Virumaa. We've been looking into it. There's nowhere in the border zone either, if that's what you mean. But thanks for asking about the border zone, I have to comment on that now. In the Commission, the Minister spoke of the border zone as 10 meters to 10 kilometres of the wide strip. Hey, what's the difference between 10 meters and 10 kilometers? When we are talking about the border zone, we must bear in mind that Kudruküla, for example, has at least a kilometer to the border, some 800 meters for sure. Everyone else is farther away.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U23	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm asking if it's only Kudruküla's law. You have put here an explanatory statement from a number of municipalities, including Illuka parish and Misso parish, etc. Is this the Kudruküla law in particular and concerns this unfortunate gardening co-operative, or is there such a problem elsewhere? Does this also apply to other regions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U25	Thank you, Peter! When I first came here many years ago and wrote quite a lot of all kinds of letters and questions, there was much more interaction with ministers and chancellors and others, then a good colleague, Professor of the University of Tartu, explained to me that if you write to a large person something he must understand then your text and all your thoughts must fit into half the page. Because if the text is longer, you'll be threatened by two factors. One is that he doesn't want to finish reading, and the other is that he doesn't understand. I mean, I don't disrespect people sitting in this hall, but understand: to understand the problem, Kudruküla is enough. The remaining parcels with which this problem lies are much smaller and there are four. They're all about the size of this one together. This also applies to other municipalities and is indicated in the draft explanatory memorandum. How can we exclude them and make a law for Narva gardening cooperatives? We are still making the law for the whole of Estonia. But here we have to remember the answer I gave to Jüri. There are no paintings such as the 0.2 hectares mentioned in the draft. So we are talking about all the municipalities involved in the bill, but we know very well that the problem is only in the eastern part of the border where Narva is.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U26	Martin Kukk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U27	Thank you. You draw attention to a contradiction in your draft explanatory memorandum. It is that natural persons are subject to a restriction and not to legal persons. It is as if the people who want to do these transactions there could theoretically do them by acquiring plots through a legal person. But my question is this: would you support the proposal to impose further restrictions on legal persons, which would eliminate the contradiction to which you refer in the explanatory memorandum?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U28	Thank you. That's a very good question, by the way. I do not understand the situation I was talking about in reply to Mr Repinski's question. I don't understand why a legal person who's formed yesterday is random, totally random! be able to buy any land in Estonia to any extent. I don't understand it. I support you in the sense that the country must definitely think through this policy. We can't just sell our territory. This ends with the fact that there is no land belonging to an Estonian resident to put on foot. But now the first part of the question. It wouldn't be that easy. All right, let's talk about Auntie Earth, everybody understands who I'm talking about. Aunt Maali, who was born in Estonia and worked in Kreenholm for life, retired ten years ago. Maybe he decides to acquire real estate, or ten centuries in a gardening cooperative called Gamma, where there are empty plots of land. 30% of these plots are actually empty. He goes shopping and they say, "You can't have it!" You've been born here, you've lived, you've paid taxes, and so on, but, well, according to the law, you can't have it. But you, Aunt Maali, can form a private limited company or a limited company and buy a plot of land through it. That's a suggestion. It's about the same as Marie Antoinette once asked why this people were rebelling. Rebellion, for the people have no bread. But why don't they eat cakes? Eat some cakes! It's kind of the same suggestion. I'm really sorry, but a common man can't imagine how this is going to be a private company. What does he need it for if he can buy an apartment or a house in Narva in no time, but he can't buy a small piece of land four kilometers away.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U29	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U30	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, Thank you very much for a very meaningful and thorough presentation. I don't know if anyone else didn't make any sense. But I ask you this: how can the threat from Kudruküla be greater to the country than the threat from the city of Narva? These places are both at the border, a few kilometers apart. How come when you get out of town, the danger gets bigger and bigger? What does this have to do with anything? Some rights are in the city of Narva, others are in Kudruküla. I might suggest that you set up a company. It allows all costs to be covered by the repair of the roof, VAT, etc. Let them make a company. Maybe someone would advise them to do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U31	Let's not fantasize! That kind of action will never feed you. There are tiny little parcels here. At the moment, we have a property in a gardening cooperative costing EUR 2 000 to 6 000. 6,000 euros is one that already has a decent house. It doesn't pay off at all. As for the fact that we have different situations like this, one in the city of Narva and the other in its district, I read the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of the Interior cannot justify this; instead, it will interpret a document that was drafted 20 years ago. You know what that reminds me of? Perhaps there are historical enthusiasts in this hall who know who is in the Institutor and Sprenger, the two Dominicans who wrote the fantastic book Maleficarum in 1487. I count it every year, just enjoying myself. There they explain who the witches are, how to look for them, and what to do with them, and how these trials were conducted. It's fantastic. They confirmed, for example, that women are more witches, because the word feminina, a Latin woman, consists of two parts, one of which means 'faith' and the other is 'less'. They have less faith. If I'm going to read you the reasons we're talking about right now, it's like the work of the Institutoris and the Sprenger. Well, no one can explain right now, but they're burning. What can I do here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U32	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U33	Thank you. Good colleague! For more than 20 years, much has been said about the integration process in Ida-Virumaa. You used the word "loyalty." I ask you: what do you think the 7,000 people in the country's integration policy, along with their families, who, like, own and don't own this little piece of land?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U34	Ladies and gentlemen, the subject of integration and, in fact, loyalty, I would immediately reject. We are talking about a purely economic problem. Imagine that you're in a gardening cooperative, some kind of Gammas or Kaseke or Tervis, and you were spoken soft and elected chairman. You're gonna have to pay all kinds of taxes up and down. What are you dealing with? You have 100 properties, 30 of them standing empty and 30 holders pay nothing because they have nothing to pay. You're gonna tell them, sell it! Let the person who wants to work here in the gardening cooperative pay the cooperative tax. They say: those Estonian citizens who wanted to buy bought long ago. There's a market, there's a need, but people can't buy. So I wouldn't be talking about integration here. It's just another problem that's actually gotten used to. But I see the processes of local government subsidising gardening cooperatives, building, repairing roads and power lines, etc. I understand that gardening cooperatives could be a lot more involved, but they're poor than church rats, because a very large part of the land has been abandoned. It can't be sold. It's not like there's buyers, even though they're right next door. They're simply forbidden to buy this land. This is an economic problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U35	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In the light of this bill, what would be your message to the Setus, the citizens of the Republic of Estonia, whose country is on the other side of the baseline and who cannot use them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U37	I must remind you that the Republic of Estonia is divided into several electoral regions. The Setus have their own electoral area, where members of the Riigikogu are also elected, as I was elected, for example. I don't know exactly who's chosen from there in this hall, but the problem of the Setus being harmed should be dealt with first and foremost by him, and this is where we talk about it. This is not a topic where you can look for comparisons with other regions. What you are talking about has absolutely nothing in common with the subject I have raised. It's the same as complaining that you don't know what you want either cake or herring. In this case, one thing is cake, the other is herring. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U38	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U39	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good speaker! In fact, there is nothing extraordinary about the ban on land sales in border regions; this is a perfectly normal practice. In Finland, it is quite seriously discussed whether the ban on land sales should not be extended to all people from third countries and, frankly, the same should also be discussed in Estonia. You claim that these processes and the land sale ban are not related to Russia, but they are, in fact. Russia has imposed a ban on foreigners not to acquire real estate within 30 kilometres of the border. If you are talking about people who were born here, whose ancestors have lived here on their knees and who have committed themselves to Estonia, why do they not want to take the first step and take Estonian citizenship themselves? Then there would be no such restrictions. It's a question of ethics.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U40	Oh, Henn, you just opened up an interesting topic that we can talk about here until the next day in the morning. I would like to tell you how the language requirements for citizenship applicants have changed. At the beginning of the 1990s, random pensioners were able to learn the Estonian language so that they passed the exam. The Narva Language Centre, where I then worked, organized courses at the expense of the city, attended by 3600 Narva pensioners. The absolute majority of them achieved a good result. At the moment, the requirements have become stricter every year. At the same time, we are talking about a person who, as a rule, does not even have secondary education and who has long lost the ability to learn. I hope no one in this hall is saying anything so stupid that a person of 60 or 70 years of age is equivalent to a 17-year-old. A lot of people have tried to take this exam, but they haven't succeeded. When you look at others who learn Estonian, you learn insanely, but you never pass the exams, many leave it at that. Point two. What must people who have ties across the border do? For example, until the 1960's, Narva did not have a cemetery and all the narcs who died at that time were buried on the Russian side of Ivangorod. And if you've had a family in Narva for decades, I'm sure there's someone in the cemetery. My husband's relatives also have a place to go. And then a purely pragmatic choice is made to make life easier to organise. At first, you were talking about one thing: You can't sell land to people from abroad. I repeat, these are not foreigners. These are people who have a long-term residence permit, these are people who have lived here all their lives. Among them are 1 to 2% of those who are newcomers. There are enormously few of them, and mostly they are not at all from Russia. And the third thing. I knew it would end with someone starting to compare with Russia. Colleagues, we are not members of the State Duma. Let them solve their border zone problems and impose all kinds of restrictions. We need to think about our people. Henn, I respect you very much, but am I right to understand that we are avenging our countrymen in Narva for what Russia is doing on its territory? Is that what you're saying? No? But what was the point? After all, the idea was more or less that you see what Russia is doing, so will we. As far as Finland is concerned, I have read about it, but it is about people who have gone to live there now. Their restrictions do not concern people who have lived in Finland for a long time. And, as I said, the problem of why people do not have Estonian citizenship is largely a language examination problem and this is a completely separate issue. This is very interesting and I would like to discuss it very much in the context of another debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U41	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U42	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good Mihkel! We must have very different problems. One concern is for those who have submitted the draft, and the other concern is for those who do not support it. We are currently having a very serious debate on immigration from the Third World. At the same time, we all know that Estonia's balance of migration with Russia and the CIS has been at least very much positive for the whole century and, in fact, even longer, more people have come to Estonia than have gone there. It is also known that people who have acquired real estate in Estonia receive a residence and work permit in Estonia more easily and quickly. Doesn't that mean a big risk? At least I am worried that, after this legislative amendment, the migration from Russia and elsewhere from the CIS will increase, which I do not think will be of any benefit to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U43	Martin, with all due respect, you have the wrong information. In recent years, much more people are leaving for Russia than they are coming from there. One example is the Port of Ust-Luga. It all started with the start of an energetic work in April 2007 for the construction of the port. The builders were missing and several Estonian companies started recruiting workers there. These people started working there, and little by little they stayed there. They're building a whole new town there. That's just one point. On the territory of the Midsummer City, there is a Hyundai factory that employs about 200 narvas. And every day to cross the border like that, well, it's pretty depressing. So that's why they're leaving. Plus, there's another threat that I'm warning you straight and clear. It's a wave of refugees. Personally, I think that this year and next year we will have 4 000-6000 refugees from the Middle East and Africa. I have many acquaintances in Sweden and Denmark who have expressed their opinion on this. It creates a situation where newcomers, refugees, are sent to a district where a local contingent simply escapes. They usually go where it's cheaper. Who live in these districts now? There are migrants who have come in the last 20 to 30 years. Who are they? Now here's your answer. So I think that is the conclusion of Estonia. When this wave of refugees comes, migration from Estonia to Russia will intensify. People who find work there go away, and they're usually good working class representatives, good masters. Returning to the question, however, I assure you that the migration wave is now greater towards Russia, not towards Estonia. And it is also up to us to decide whether those who come as refugees will be entitled to acquire property, not only in the border zone, but also elsewhere in Estonia. That, too, is up to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U44	Jaak Madisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Stalnukhin! You rightly mentioned in your speech that there are up to 120,000 citizens of the Russian Federation in Estonia according to different data. You also insisted on loyalty that these people are loyal, who live here and pay taxes. My understanding of loyalty is a little different. The payment of taxes is inevitable; they are taken by the state from everyone anyway. Living in Estonia is also inevitable. The definition of loyalty is very difficult; these standards vary greatly between people. Do you think that up to 120,000 people, up to two thirds of non-citizens who have a passport from the Russian Federation and who have not wanted to become Estonian citizens and complete language training, are loyal enough to be on the Estonian side, for example, in a crisis situation and ready to die for Estonia? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U46	Jaak, I was recently told about the Estonian colony in Spain. Our entrepreneurs are said to have built an entire settlement where they live somewhere beautiful, and once a year they visit their business here in Estonia. Do you think they're patriots or not? Does a person have the right to choose where he lives? No, it's not. You were talking about a passport. All right! I have little interest in such plot, but more or less I remember that in the last two years, two spies and one corruptant have been discovered in the closet. Jaak, are you telling me they had Russian Federation passports? [[Summing in the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U47	There is no possibility for a reptile at this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U48	They had the passports of an Estonian citizen. People who, in the latest scandals, have taken bribes in high places, who are they? Representatives of a foreign country? Russian passport? I'm trying to explain to you as a young person that whether a person is good or bad doesn't depend on the color of his passport. There are enough Estonians walking around with an Estonian passport that you would not want to see at all in Estonia. You'd like them to sit in a cell somewhere. And here in Estonia, there are people with Russian passports who work in non-profit institutions dealing with drug addiction, who are involved in restoring the city of Narva, for example, somewhere in the archaeological society. In my eyes, it only costs what a person is, not what color his passport is. With the exception of elections, of course, the price of an Estonian citizen will rise. But it was a joke and let it be a joke. It doesn't matter what color the passport is. What's important is what's human. And, Jaak, I'm paying your attention to a few more facts. I'm sure you're watching international news. Have you seen what is happening in the great cities of Germany, in the districts of Hamburg or Munich, where the Turks live? Have you seen the Arabs burning cars in Paris? This year they have a good achievement, 1,200 cars with something, last year it was 1,500 with something. Do you realize that these people are German citizens and French citizens? But it doesn't cost anything. It is our own myth that the fact that a person has a certain passport makes him a patriot or a loyal person. It's not like that. Finally. I have a good friend. During the Soviet period he was a simple worker at the Baltijets factory, after working as a master and dealing with subordinates individually. I love to talk to him because he's an intelligent person, he knows a lot, but he doesn't give me any ugly estimates. It's good to have a conversation with him, a really intelligent person. Once upon a time, I asked him why he was not an Estonian citizen. He said he could take citizenship, but it was once that Congress of Estonia, you remember, shared these green and blue cards. And then he saw who got citizenship on the basis of these cards. Since he was a Democrat at the time and saw the leading party members secretly walk and register at the Estonian Congress and take out either a blue card or a green card that gave the right to citizenship, that was all. He didn't want to take citizenship when these people got that way, and for him, the question had been solved. He's gonna be a stateless person. Something like that. I'm glad I remembered that. Every time you start talking about people's loyalty, please remember that during the difficult times the Estonian Congress offered Estonian citizenship to everyone, and so the 35,000 people whose origin was not studied, their work in the KGB or anywhere in the party bodies were not studied, the background was not studied. They just gave it because they needed allies. And now, Jaak, Estonia is facing very difficult times and we need allies. And while I'm talking to you, I'm going to remind you of the pict that you led this summer before the Riigikogu. I went there to see. A man with EKRE signs came to the clear that yours and asked us whether, now, in the face of this refugee threat, we Estonians and Russians were still together. I said we've always been together, but there are people who are interested in having differences, misunderstandings, etc. But actually, we've always been together. Normal people don't look at what nationality or political party is one person or another in what colour someone's passport is.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U49	Thank you, Heimar! I was hoping this time I wouldn't have to talk about it, but it's a philosophical question. This is the line between a wise decision and a stupid decision. When a wise decision is made that can be justified, there are so many authors who come to tell you that I was the one who made it up, I was the one who formulated it, I defended it, and so on. When it comes to cretinism like that in this law, and someone is holding onto it, you don't know who it is. I don't know! Those who have been boxing understand the situation. It's like a fight with yourself where you beat the air. I don't know where those people are who should start their brains. When it comes to bigger things, you'll remember the massons and all these other things. But I don't think the massons did it. When it comes to stupidity, you will never identify the author when it comes from the ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U50	Good waitress, thank you very much. No further questions. Igor Gräzini, member of the Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, would like to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm afraid we've lost focus between now and what we're talking about. We have here mentioned the Masons, ISIS, Syria, the loyalty of the Republic, etc. We're talking about a gardener. I think people my age pretty much know what this thing looks like. In short, it is something that most colleagues have seen when they arrive in Tallinn when the plane starts to land. Don't be afraid, open your eyes, look down and there she is. It's Dvigatel's. The next thing I know is the historical fact of how long and where this matter has been discussed. Mr Stalnukhin was wrong to say that this has been discussed 13 times. That's not true. It has only been discussed ten times. Three times the law was discussed without reference to § 10. So this is a relatively young thing. Let's go. There was a question of not knowing who made it, where it came from. I don't know who did it, but in 1996, when it was on the agenda, the Minister of the Interior was Edgar Savisaar, and when the current version of the law came, the law restricting the acquisition of immovable property, the Minister of the Interior was Ken-Marti Vaher. Now the Reform Party is working on this. Now for the problem. Before I begin to explain the protocol, which is my task, I think it is my duty to explain a little bit what was relatively obvious in the Committee on Rural Affairs. It is a civil law that includes turnover, purchase, sale, inheritance, gift and other such things. Unlike several other countries, the principle of market freedom applies in Estonia to buying, selling, exchanging, pawning, etc. is free. On its behalf, the Republic of Estonia was established in 1991 and is one of its most important legal bases. In this case, we are dealing with a restriction on the freedom of civil circulation. We say for some reason that the constitutional basis of the Estonian state does not apply here and in this respect. These things happen every once in a while. The best example is disease. You can't hang out between the stables during the fun, and you don't have freedom of movement, that makes perfect sense. And right now it's the same place where, for some higher reason, if it's civil freedom, I mean civil freedom, we say yes, you can, in case... Or option 2: Anyone can, but you can't. However, this can only be done if there is one, I understand, it is a bad expression, so-called higher interests, Estonia's sovereignty, independence, security, public security, etc. In other words, the state has a duty to make it clear to citizens and the Riigikogu that this is now the case where a restriction is introduced. By the way, I would like to draw attention to what Madis has pointed out and what is a very important place. Did you notice such a small thing that when we talk about civil turnover, we are talking not about the right to property, but about the so-called 'obligation' or 'liability' right? Very little is said about who owns this land now. The question is, who can acquire it in the future means whether this land can be sold. So it is not a question of regulating the current situation, but of prohibiting its dynamic change, we are setting a trade limit.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U52	Thank you, good manager. Good speaker! For a long time, it has been felt that parliamentary debate is of no use. We've been talking for an hour and a half about this bill, and it turns out we're at the wrong source. We're talking about the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister of the Interior, but it turns out the author of this bill is sitting in the Ministry of Agriculture instead. Consequently, it is not the Minister's opinion that needs to be discussed, but the Minister's opinion. I ask whether you have heard the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture and have taken that into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U53	I'll be honest with you, I'm not. I don't know, maybe the chairman of the committee can say better. Honestly, we didn't think of that. Since we have been appointed as the lead committee for this draft, we believe that logic is very simple. We want the land to be in civil circulation. The security authorities say that there can't be there, which we can say is, uh, because we can't go arguing with them how far something has to be, because it's nothing to do with the rural economy. So we didn't think to ask for that opinion. I hope that, in future, the Committee on Legal Affairs, or anyone else, will invite the Minister for Agriculture, but by its very nature, this is not an agricultural problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U54	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U55	Thank you. Honourable rural expert and waitress! I do think that the right ministry and the right committee are discussing this issue, because if you look, most of Estonia is agricultural and forest land. Most are agricultural and forestry land. You even mentioned that the Commission also discussed the sale and acquisition of agricultural land. That is why I think that this issue has been given the right place to discuss. This is the case in most countries, namely the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture, at least in the European Union, in regulating agricultural and forestry land, land issues and their sales and ownership issues. I have a question: did you discuss in the Commission possible restrictions on the acquisition of land for legal persons other than defence? We know that there are very different approaches within the European Union. Some countries have transitional periods in which citizens of foreign countries, even those of other countries of the European Union, cannot acquire agricultural land at all. Was there a wider debate on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U56	I'm telling you, honestly, it was an intermetho because it wasn't really related to that law. However, since there are extremely democratic and collegial relations in the Committee on Rural Affairs, during the discussion of the draft law, we are going to go from time to time there, and no one can even say who is going to history now, said that this is a problem at all. For about a dozen minutes, we plucked that ball back and forth, and we came to the conclusion that it was a problem. There was no conclusion, because we were still talking about the gardening coopers. I think that the Committee on Rural Affairs takes the view that this is a problem, and the further it gets sharper. The sooner we react, the better. We can't... I really like the Chinese, but I don't want all of Estonia's dairy farming to go to their hands.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U57	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U58	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Igor Gräzin! You claimed that one of the reasons why this bill is against is that the buyer might not be caught, and you brought Galojan as an example here. Although Galojan or Helenius are not going to buy these properties there, this is still a very burning problem for the local population. My question is this: would you be ready today for this decision to be taken and the deep personal problem of so many people solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U59	I will even tell you why I voted in favour of the Commission's majority decision. I was based on being a very young agricultural expert, or how was it, Seeder, who am I? As an outstanding young agricultural specialist, I would say that I got my eyes big when I saw, on this two pages, right on the side of the page, yawning so big a hole and that there are so many problems that I have already mentioned. I'm just going to say one more time: this is the land near the defense objects. I think it's much less important who lives near the Setomaa border than the one who lives and how, and what puts things up at Ämari Airport or Tapa's tank polygon. But you keep going there! Or the same co-operative Ozero who can buy it for himself and so on. And when I saw this whole mess, maybe it's the first reaction of a lawyer, but my idea was, if it's really messed up, don't let it pass just in case. Take a deep breath and think about it! These poor people, who have suffered for ten years, will suffer for another three months, although I admit that this too may be too late for some. Since you asked me honestly, I'm gonna be honest with you. That's what I thought. Thank you, Kersti!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U60	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U61	Thank you. Dear colleague Igor Gräzin! The beginning was very interesting, unfortunately you were slowed down, would have been happy to keep listening. Did I understand correctly from your first sentences that the Estonian law is applied differently in Narva and, say, Kudruküla?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U62	Yeah, maybe so. Once again, there are exceptions like this in every country and always. The problem is not whether there are exceptions, the problem is whether they are motivated, legal and so strong that they outweigh the distinction. Right now we're talking about that, yes, they're different, that's the way it is, regulation itself is bad, this § 10 doesn't fit where it's all right. But there are two principles: we have the sovereignty of the state in relation to our territory and we have the freedom of civil circulation. And that's two things now where one plays the other. But under no circumstances must it be up to the mayor, the mayor, a party or anyone. It must then really be in the national interest, which is why this issue is also in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U63	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U64	It has something to do with this. If I may, I will answer with another fact. The fact is that it has been confirmed by the very large European specialists that food production is going up. There is no agriculture in Spain, there is no France. That is why it is going up north, in other words, the blooms of our agriculture, even if we do nothing, will come in ten years. Even if we don't do anything, just because the food zone is moving upwards. And then the earth becomes a resource. How many national resources does Estonia have? There aren't any. And that is why I think that somewhere we are approaching that the sale of Estonia's land to non-Estonian citizens and not to the permanent residents of Estonia should be placed at the border. This is not my idea, it was in the resolution of the conference held at the University of Life Sciences about a year ago. However, I agree that this is a problem. But my God, gardening cooperatives don't have a global meaning now, it's a second line, gardening cooperatives aren't...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U65	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I open negotiations and ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Estonian Centre Party Group to Mikhail Stalnukhini!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U66	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have a compromise proposal for you. Indeed, gardening cooperatives have no global meaning, as the previous speaker has just said. It's a small territory in a particular place to talk about it here. I mean, it sounded, and now everyone knows that in December, the Minister must come here not only with a border concept, but he has now been given a promise in his mouth that was not made in the Commission, that the problem relating to the same 0.2 hectares will also be resolved. Well, it's clear that if the bill is voted out of procedure today, I'll be here on Monday. I am, of course, shocked that I went to the wrong committee 13 times in 17 years. I'm shocked when suddenly it turns out that no ministry we've been negotiating with has ever dealt with this bill. The shock is that, as the previous speaker mentioned, no one knows why these restrictions have been imposed. He said that clearly. Colleagues, there's a certain part of the hall that pushes the red button. And there is the second part, who probably, given the Commission's decision, which was not a majority decision, it was still 5: 5: 1, should, like, press the green button, but you will be able to make an exception once. I promise and say on behalf of my group that I will not open my mouth, we will wait for December, we will wait for the Minister and then we will all discuss the border concept together and this particular problem, we will remind the Minister. Between the first reading and the second reading, the bill may be in a box somewhere, we're not going to push it in any way, let him be there. We save nerves, strength and time in this hall. So the proposal is very simple: let this first reading be completed and we will come to this draft together with the border concept. That would be a clear and clear compromise. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U67	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U68	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that this issue has found a basis for such a very serious political debate. It's full of electricity. I would like to say, 'Good colleagues, peace! Help's on the way. ' And I really hope that the help on this issue will reach us by the end of the year, and we will have the key to this solution, which the Minister will propose to us. Mikhail was right in that he was counting on the Social Democrats. It's the right thing to do. We, too, have been out here in this Chamber with a draft on the same issue, and we have now taken a clear line that this issue must be resolved. But there are several buts. One way is to solve the issue precisely on the basis of the same data we have just talked about. We do not know why in the past these restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property were imposed. We don't know exactly what its background was. That means we have to go on in a different way. Time has gone on, too. We know that relations with our eastern neighbour are no longer the same, a year ago we discovered that our border is not exactly what we want it to be. Yeah, it's embarrassing to say it, but basically we discovered it politically. That means we have to look at the whole border matter a little differently. We must certainly not discriminate against a person according to the colour of his passport. However, we must protect our country and the objects of our country in view of how much interest our current non-friendly neighbours may have in these objects. In other words, our last concept and draft developed in the previous Riigikogu concerned that it was time to move from a territorial approach to an object-based approach. That is why a border concept is needed, and it actually requires the concept of protecting other security objects. That's one side of the question. The other thing is that if you go around Narva or Narva-Jõesuusk, there is a lot of real estate that has actually been bought by very confused legal entities. If this option remains, we will create a situation where we will slow down the physical person, but the dark deeds, if necessary, will still be done. Therefore, today we certainly cannot vote in favour of the draft law proposed by the Central Party Group, as it has remained in those old boots. We are in a new situation and we need to resolve this issue in a new way. But don't we have to solve this. I really hope the Minister of the Interior takes this seriously. For the first time, the aim is to resolve this issue in a coalition agreement. Whoever wants to read paragraph 6.37, it has gotten in there with the support of our political party. I hope that the current coalition in this matter will come to a solution that is very rational and less restrictive in terms of civil turnover than possible, while ensuring maximum security for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U69	Thank you. I ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U70	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a little confused that we're looking for a border concept in the 25th year of independence. I think, of course, we once had a border concept, but now there is no border guard. I'd argue with the socialists: the colour of the passport still counts. Whether or not a person is a citizen is the cornerstone of all statehood. That's what people need to know. I think it's elementary. I also point out that, in fact, different people here have a completely different understanding of what is or is not a problem. Estonia's security is a problem for the Conservative People's Party. In a situation where Russia promotes its security even as far away as Syria, it is a bit naive to think that it is not engaged in constant press in its neighbouring countries. Our security is already holed up. Giving us a chance to operate with the lands along the border, we'll create another hole. That won't be necessary. We continue to believe that two things need to be resolved with regard to this problem, which has been discussed for a long time. Firstly, indeed, the same restriction must also be imposed on legal persons. Secondly, if people have not taken Estonian citizenship in 25 years, I find it questionable why they do not choose from us, then I find their loyalty questionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U71	Thank you very much for this clarification. I will just add, as a comment, that this law has been in the wrong ministry and the wrong committee from the beginning. I'm not surprised he's been here for ten years.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U72	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft No 7 at first reading. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the commission to reject draft No 7 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 44 votes against 25 and 1 abstention, the commission's proposal was supported. Draft No 7 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The item is closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 11.57 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U73	Good waitress, I'm sorry! A procedural question has come up. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U74	Mr Stalnukhin, I am happy to answer you: if you didn't get ten times short, you'll be out the next ten. Right now, I'm doing what you should have done. I am going to say what the Committee on Rural Affairs is on, so that the problem is clear, so that something happens in December. But if you don't want something to happen in December, then I'll say they voted 5:5:1 and they proposed to vote this thing out. So I don't need to talk anymore. Is that all? Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U75	Any questions for the waitress? It is. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U76	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U77	As this conversation has become frivolous thanks to the EKRE, I just want to point out that we are dealing with a private civil matter and that there are no criteria for a civil transaction such as loyalty and symmetricity. In the event of marriage, there is no need for a party ticket, a blood certificate, an oath to the Estonian state and such. You can get married! It's French, it's French, it's loyal to France. In short, these are things that go beyond the scope of civil law regulation in a normal democratic state. But we're talking border zones. Russia has a border zone. What, are we gonna do the border zone now? In short, this love, which is like this loyalty and border zone, etc., this loyalty to Putin's way of thinking is unacceptable to me. I'm not on Putin's side, unlike my colleagues. But I want to draw attention to something. Tell me, please, the problem is complicated, it confused the boys. Will you please repeat that? The Minister promised to settle the matter by December. Was that so? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Yeah or no?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U78	No! No! He promised perhaps by December to prepare the concept of a state border, and within it maybe they will find time to deal with this problem as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U79	Got it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U80	But actually, I'm glad Igor's gonna be in this conversation. I absolutely never share the assessment given by his partymate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You're a very smart person. And now I'm glad to know that you have some kind of device that you can read another person's mind and guess who's Putin-minded and who's Obama-minded. It's very convenient and it's very good, it's worth the Nobel Prize. Igor, congratulations!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U81	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Does this bill have, in addition to everything else that has been mentioned today, some kind of state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U83	Yes! Any economic activity leads to certain revenues in the state budget. I've already told you that about 30% of the lands of gardening cooperatives are empty. If we can make sure that there are owners who are going to restructure there, whatever they want, they need instruments to fix the house, they may need to hire a company to have a fence made, they need to buy plant plants and trees, they need garden chemistry and much more. All of this requires the payment of VAT, all of which gives work to certain people. It is not possible to calculate the economic effect of this, but it is clear that the inhabited earth is much more useful to the state than the wasteland.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U84	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U85	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Mikhail Stalnukhin! Igor Gräzin has already said the right thing, and I would also like to suggest to my colleagues that we put aside the so-called "murms" and the problems that threaten us this time. I ask why we do not apply the principle of equal treatment to the inhabitants of Kudruküla. As I understand, in Narva, Narva, the city of Narva, in gardening cooperatives, the same immovable property, private persons can also dispose of, Kudruküla, which is a little further from the river, cannot. And another comment. I support Mr Kuke's proposal to really look at the problem as a whole. Why are we talking about restrictions on individuals if we do not apply them to legal persons?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U86	Thank you. Honourable Professor! However, in the interests of clarifying the verbatim report, I consider it necessary to note that this draft law has never been a draft of the Ministry of the Interior, which would have been drawn up there. This draft has never been discussed in the Committee on National Defence either as a lead committee or in any other committee, but has been a draft by the Ministry of Agriculture from the outset and has been discussed in the Committee on Rural Affairs as a lead committee. So perhaps it is not so much the link that has been the ministers of the Interior as the one who has been the ministers of agriculture that matters. Just for the record.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U87	Actually, there were two questions. I will answer what was formulated as a question. Vaivara municipality has no plans. Vaivara municipality thinks that since the Narva people are there and it is under the administration of the city of Narva, Narva must contribute to it. And that's where our town of Narva cleans up the roads, cleans them up, asphalts them, buses that the city subsides. Vaivara municipality is simply the owner. The strange thing about Narva is that we still don't have any working cemeteries. I don't think anyone knows that. The village where people are buried belongs to Vaivara and we do not really have a single word to say there. But when it comes to the reasoning at the beginning of the question that someone's goal may be to buy and sell the land, it is not. You don't think I've done anything about it? I have taken members of the Riigikogu from different political groups in the IX and X Riigikogu, and I have taken people with them who have business backgrounds. I've been driving them to the Gamma Gardening Association, that name sounds like the third time here today, where half the land is empty. I've offered them it's so easy to buy these plots here. Whether you make up yourself or make up a legal entity with your friends, you buy the land and then you sell it by half a hectare. But it is not economically useful, and no one to whom such a proposal was made accepted it. So buying to sell more expensive afterwards isn't real.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U88	Martin Kukk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U89	Thank you. I was simply pointing out the substantive contradiction in the current law. Just in case, I'm going to go ahead and say I'm against this bill. I asked you a specific question last time. You responded in a relatively abstract way, saying that policy should be reviewed. But I am asking specifically: if there is a need to restrict the proposal to legal persons on this issue in the future, will you support it or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U90	Yes, I would. As a patriot in Estonia, I would support the possibility for a legal person to buy either a square kilometer or 10 square kilometres, or I do not know how many In my opinion, the aggressive selling of Estonian territory should be stopped. But as you well understand, I'm not a specialist in real estate or any other business. I have another specialty. However, yes, I think that buying land should not be so easy when it comes to fantastic land masses. This bill must bring relief to those people who simply want to grow the same onions in their gardens that our colleague must have talked about in the previous question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U91	Viktoria Ladynskaja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U92	Dear Mikhail Stalnukhin! I just want to be more specific. I currently have the minutes of the meeting of the Riigikogu Committee on Rural Affairs and it has been said that the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, stated that § 10 of the current Act has failed and needs to be amended. The Estonian border project should be completed by the end of this year, which will lead to the establishment of border zones and restrictions. And then you can also review this regulation. Doesn't that mean a specific decision for you?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U93	Viktoria, thank you for your question. But read it again. The Minister promises that by the end of the year he will bring before us or, I don't know, the Ministry or the Commission document that governs the border zone. This is in the final sentence, in order for the Commission to feel that something is being done, according to my memory, for 17 years, and within this framework, perhaps this new decision, which supports the gardening cooperatives, will come. There is no word about these gardening cooperatives; there is no word about people living in Estonia in the long term. If the minister comes here next time and let's assume it's the same man, no one else, the third, the fourth minister, we'll have a chance to ask, you promised. He's asking us where that promise is, tell me, please! Unfortunately, what you read doesn't come out of that promise. Posle dozhdichka v chetverg, as the Russian people say.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U94	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U95	Thank you. Honourable performer! As a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, I overheard it, and I have heard it many times before. The Minister of the Interior did not show much interest in this problem. Perhaps now, at the end of this long discussion, you will bring the subject together and tell the hall you have so much experience and you have been so thoroughly involved in what you have come to think. Who, then, is the power that opposes your proposal? If it's not the Department of Defense, is it an Home Office official or some kind of political force? Is there a government department that doesn't want it, or is it a vote for the voters? Open up your emotions and observations a little bit!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good colleague! You described in a very emotional way at first that people want to own land, and I totally understand that. As a man of earth, I know that onion and cucumber grow much better in the land I own than in the land I own. At the same time, you said that most of these parcels were fed and some of the land users were very old people. In this respect, I understand that some people's real interest in acquiring these plots is linked to the desire to sell them, and that, of course, cannot be blamed for them. Every cent is important to the pensioner. But here's my question. As a person who is very familiar with local conditions, do you know whether the local government has any plans for the general plan of the region or whatever?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U97	Thank you. Dear waitress, However, I would ask you to talk a little bit about the background why this has happened, why we have such a restriction on the freedom of civil circulation and what could happen in December. Now, if you could just tell us about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U98	I mean, what did the minister say before it went to vote? This is one of the many nuances that we have just mentioned, but which I would very much like to draw attention to. It is a law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property, which states that immovable property may not be acquired in certain places, including Saaremaa, Hiiumaa, Muhus, Vormsil, Ida-Virumaa, Tartu County, Meeks and Piirissaare, etc. This list repeats the 1996 law. We see, for example, what came out of this report, by the way, is that if we take this law literally, we cannot even sell an apartment in Narva for the simple reason that the city of Narva is inside this § 10. The Minister repeatedly stressed that this is § 10, which is very weak. In addition, the following topics were discussed: And now Stalnukhin won't let me lie. We were talking about the following things that need to be resolved. First of all, what is the scope of this special mode area. Indeed, the expression "from 10 m to 10 km " was used repeatedly. Secondly, is that the only reason we have right now? What are land use restrictions around Ämari airport or around other military sites, for example? And the third thing that arose: when will the sale of uncontrolled land, particularly agricultural and forestry land, the uncontrolled sale of land to foreigners in circumstances where the price of the land rises, the possibilities of producing food and growing food raw materials in the world be reduced and the price of the land simply increases? These were all the things that, as I understood, the Minister said that all of this would need a complex solution and that by December, this thing would be over. Let's go. One thing that ran through was that the Commission was not satisfied with the explanatory memorandum submitted. That's what we were talking about. In the explanatory memorandum, the following were mentioned as justifications for the restriction. Organisation of agencies. Figuratively speaking, if there is a private country and, for example, the Ministry of the Interior, the kapo or the Border Guard Board wants to pull through their cable or something else, then it turns out that if it's an alien, you can't pull him because he can't be caught. The Estonian citizen can be better caught, but the foreigner cannot. Let's get Anna-Maria Galojani. How soon did we get her? Three years. Ask yourself who it is easier to reach, either Joakim Helenius or Anna-Maria Galojani. So that's not really an argument. The second thing that went through the Commission was the issue of a legal person, which is actually a completely hole, a gap. In fact, no joke, Ozero the gardener, Chairman Putin, Deputy Medvedev, can freely acquire this plot of land beyond Narva under the law already in force. Next, there may be separatists and anyone. From the Commission's point of view, two things, territory and property are being confused here. The Estonian state has a summer migration, or supreme power, over Estonia, but the Estonian country is not the property of the Estonian state. It's two things. It cannot be that if the Estonian state really needs to do something, they will call ahead and say that we will come now. The owner says you're not coming, and the country is powerless. Consequently, this argument is not correct either. In short, in our opinion, all these arguments were not sufficiently competent. But the most important sentence, which the Minister repeated, was that it is not possible to find data at this point in time which objects were associated with the restrictions and what dangers were considered. We don't know why it's done! Nine or ten times has already been discussed, and we still don't know 11 times. The only way out, the real way out, which I see, and I repeat, this is not my personal position, which was also reflected by the vote, is to decide between the two options. The first option: we're gonna finish reading it now, we're gonna get on with it, and we're gonna get everything that's been here on our hands. Option 2: If we have a promise in the minutes by witnesses and anyone in the presence of a minister that by December the complex solution of this problem will come, we will come back to it in December, given all the places I talked about selling to the outsiders, the military objects thing and all the rest of this with the arguments of others. And the last, quite rightly, is what the Commission started with. All the arguments that speak in favour of limiting this civil turnover, let's say, have a national security significance. This must be dealt with by security agencies, the Ministry of Defence, etc. By the way, the Department of Defense isn't against restrictions, so the Department of Defense says they don't need restrictions. But it's all security stuff. We in the Committee on Rural Affairs are simple men and women, we are in favour of peace. We don't do all kinds of reconnaissance and stuff like that, we want there to be milk, pigs to be healthy and stuff like that. I think we've had enough headaches with this. So, my goodness, leave us alone with these things, if possible. If this vote goes as the Commission proposed in order to vote the draft out of the procedure, well, if a person has posed a problem ten times, he will also present it 11 times. But then I will turn over and say at the request of the Commission: indeed, please save us from this, we will be dealing with rural matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U99	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U100	Thank you. The procedural question: who is represented by the waitress? As far as I know, he was supposed to represent the Committee on Rural Affairs. Initially, in these first minutes, there has been a talk that no one in the Commission spoke. Perhaps it is possible to recall that the opinion of a political group or a political party can be expressed in the negotiations, but now it is good practice to talk about what was being said in the committee session.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U101	Thank you. Igor Gräzin represents the Committee on Rural Affairs. Please, good waitress, continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U102	Thank you, Mr President. Good Igor! There was a rather interesting thought in this discussion that restrictions had to be made in all Eastern Europe, in this so-called post-communist world, above all because of poverty. Not to sell land to foreigners that pagan, if he's so cheap, they'll buy it all. Could this example of Kudruküla be the same that comes and buys everything?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U103	Thank you for your question. I'm not going to comment on legal entities again. I think the Estonian state needs a strong policy on how it sells its territory. That's clear. But as for your question of why this inequality is one attitude here, another attitude there, I'll be honest with you: I don't know. When the Commission asked the Department of Defense, the Ministry said it didn't know. And that's why they don't mind fixing it. We asked the Home Office and got an answer, which is a joke. But they don't know why either. It's just what's happened. You know, there are probably religious people in this hall who believe in God. The Gospel consists of four books. But did you know that in 325 after Christ there was an event where these four books were set up? This is Nicaea Congress. I don't know how to translate sobor into Estonian. So the Nicaea Congress. The point was that there were actually over 100 books. But people got together and picked out four of them. Everyone else was forgotten. And now, when someone asks, when some Bible questioning arises, it is impossible to answer why they chose the four books, the four wills, and nothing else. Here's the same thing: someone 20 years ago at a time when 1500 or 2,000 laws were passed each year decided this way and the law was passed. Everyone then dealt with privatisation, there were huge problems, the criminogenic situation was terrible, the economy collapsed, no one paid attention to this provision. We are now trying to understand why they passed this law 20 years ago. We don't understand it, and I don't have the answer, Peter.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U104	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Mikhail! I actually want to thank my colleague Martin Kuke in particular, because I really enjoyed hearing what he was saying. Before I could not imagine that it could be that a member of the Riigikogu would explain to people how the law could be passed and what schemes needed to be used in order to carry out his wish. That it is necessary to formalise the company because it is already available for the acquisition of real estate that a private person cannot buy under law. I don't know, Mikhail, maybe this is really the solution, but it's actually not normal for people to start companies. After all, it involves accounting and other things that are not logical and normal. I think it's a crime when people act like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U106	Martin, listen, don't hurt Kuke! I'm hoping he'll make the right decision or at least get out of the hall because he understands. If you piss him off right now, he's starting to support this completely stupid decision by the Commission. And it's no longer about how he's suggesting we do it. I don't know his background, maybe he's an entrepreneur, and he's used to it. In order for him to understand that Aunt Painting isn't such a mindset, and it's not normal for him to form a company to buy six centuries of land, I'm trying to explain it. Colleagues, be careful when you ask questions. Don't make anyone mad, for God's sake! Look how soft I am here today!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U107	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U108	Thank you, manager. It's not gonna get rid of that Russian phobia, it's gonna go on. I'm gonna ask you a question like that. I have read that 4,000 ISIS fighters have infiltrated the European Union somewhere. I'm asking if one of the ISIS fighters who owns a company or company can buy a property there. Is that possible? I understand that this is possible in Estonia at the moment. And I'm gonna ask you another question. Why do you think the Social Democrats are against this bill? How does Ossinovski go to Narva and tell the people of Narva how he fights for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U109	Yes, this Islamic activist legally formalises the company and buys as much land as he wants at any location as he wants at the Narva River or it is in Tallinn or Valga or Saaremaa, no matter where. As far as the social democrats are concerned, in the name of justice, I would remind you that they have, however, supported this draft law. This is the 13th time here, and in the meantime, when they were in opposition, they supported it. At one time, it was even like, when we were in the government, the voices went in half. Anyway, I wouldn't be calling them names here. I've already talked about it. That's how I ended my call. That's what the president once called us. Today is a chance to prove that everyone thinks with their heads that it's not like we're rubber stamps. The Commission voted 5: 5: 1 and only because Mr Padar, very skilfully voting, put a suitable formula to him, which called the first reading into question, made such a decision. You know, I've been asked what this new Riigikogu is like because it's the fifth Riigikogu I see. You know, I guess I'm not wrong when I say that this Riigikogu is like earth and heaven compared to the previous one. In the previous Riigikogu, it was virtually impossible to talk to anyone. Now we're communicating with the newcomers, they're taking it normally, we're talking, we're spending time together somewhere, and so on. This is an achievement, because it was not in the previous Riigikogu. There were four gangs, everyone saved up, and the attitude was that God forbid, let the group presidents agree, we don't communicate. It's gone now, and that's how I've answered the questioners. I have hope, Tarmo! I understand that on fundamental issues, whoever wins will remain right. But such pragmatic and uncomplicated questions, where a decision based simply on conscience and life experience could be taken normally. So second comment: don't hurt the socialists, I'm counting on them too.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U110	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U111	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good answer! I'm going to ask you more specifically about your previous answer. Are there any precise data or generalisations about the majority of Estonia sold through shadows to foreign people, foreigners? The fact that a lot of land has been sold is clear, but is there any material to confirm that our farmland has been sold through shadows or shadow companies, that the property of Tallinn has been sold or that the properties of Tartu, Pärnu, Võru, Valga or any other place have been sold?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U112	I think Statistics knows that for sure. They certainly have some kind of study on the nationality of people who, either as a natural person or through a legal person where they are members of the board, have purchased one or the other. But it doesn't matter now because, as we understand, it doesn't interest the government, it doesn't interest our media. If it gets hot, they'll be looking into it. It's a total secret to me, I can't imagine. But when the Committee on Rural Affairs went on the day before yesterday to discuss this issue, they said some horrible things. I'm not just a specialist in this. As I understand it, there are already very large land masses sold to foreign companies. But really, I don't know much about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U113	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-17_U114	Valdo Randpere, please!
