ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. May I have your attention, please? It's good to see you here fresh and rested! I am pleased that all the political groups are represented this morning. We will begin the session of the eighth working week of the first session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. Do colleagues have a desire to pass on drafts or enquiries? Please, my colleague Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U2	Mr President, good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday it may have been a bit unexpected as the fact that insurance activities are the favourite topic of the composition of the Riigikogu. That law was able to attract us for eight and a half hours. As a follow-up to yesterday's debate, I have one draft decision to deliver. Indeed, yesterday there was also talk of regularisation of the activities of mutual insurance companies. The rapporteurs responded positively, giving positive signals and promises that it would be worth working on. In order to ensure that yesterday's talks in this Chamber are not just words, but also acts, the Free Party Group has proposed a draft decision to propose a 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic'. We propose to initiate a draft law amending the Insurance Activities Act, which will establish the necessary regulations for mutual insurance companies and ensure that these amendments will enter into force from 1 January 2016. A comprehensive explanatory memorandum explaining why mutual insurance activities attract attention has been added.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U3	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. I've adopted a bill. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes this in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now let's go to the messages. Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber of the founding group of victims of repression of communism and other anti-humanity regimes and unrepresented peoples. The callers are Andres Herkel, Eerik-Niles Kross and Mart Nutt. So be active! Incoming check, please! 78 members of the Riigikogu are present, 23 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U4	Let us begin by addressing the items on today's agenda. Today, one of the items on the agenda is an overview of judicial arrangements, administration of justice and uniform application of the law. The rapporteur is Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court. Please! The rapporteur has up to 30 minutes to speak, each member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask one oral question, only the representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! § 27 (3) of the Courts Act gives the President of the Supreme Court the opportunity to turn to the Parliament once a year with an overview of the organisation of the court in Estonia, the administration of justice and the uniform application of the laws. Today, I will give you an overview of the main issues of judicial activity that, in a broader sense, can be considered to be covered by the issue of judicial administration. The Estonian judicial system is entering the age of generation change. The increased appeals of the President of the Supreme Court to the parliament for the dismissal of members of the Supreme Court and the appointment of new members are living proof. However, this process is not only a matter of our higher court, but of the judicial system as a whole. The human resources statistics that characterise our judiciary confirm that nearly one third of the judges will reach retirement age in the coming years. There is therefore a large-scale generational shift at all levels of justice, which in turn leads to the need to find a considerable number of strong new lawyers suitable for judicial office. At the same time, the length of judicial competitions and the absence of the necessary qualified lawyers in certain areas may seriously hinder justice. It also follows from the above that both the judicial system itself and the legislator, whose legislation governs the conduct of the courts, must be critically assessed in relation to the possibilities and capacity available to re-fill vacant seats. According to the Estonian legal order, only a qualified lawyer can act as a professional justice officer, i.e. one who has acquired at least a nationally recognised master's degree in the field of study. Thus, the preparation of a sufficient number of lawyers at Estonian universities is an indispensable prerequisite for filling the judges' seats. Today we have reached a point where we cannot complain about the lack of lawyers. The high popularity of legal education, which has continued throughout the period of independence and is still ongoing, among upper secondary school graduates, has replaced the drought of lawyers in the early 1990s with an abundance of lawyers, in order not to say overproduction. On the basis of approximate data, a total of 5 000 were awarded legal diplomas in Estonia in the framework of academic higher education in 1991-2013, 3,000 of whom received this diploma at the Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu and 2000 at some other institution of higher education, often already lost and completely forgotten. A total of 5,000 highly educated lawyers would be sufficient to man more than ten Estonian judicial systems with both judges and Advocates-General. However, it has to be said that the judiciary is not the only profession in the legal system offering legal challenges, which means that the judiciary must compete with the prosecutor's office, the barrister's office, the notariat, the public service and countless private operators who also consider it necessary to recruit lawyers. Obviously, it is not worth noting that when competing with other legal areas for new workers, the judicial system does not refer to any lawyer, but only to a person with a higher than average qualification. However, there is a strong competition to recruit the right lawyers. This is where we come to the first serious problem of court competitions, which is the unreasonably high rate of failure. This year, the number of members of the Estonian Bar Association will be 1,000 members for the first time, but the number of people wishing to take the bar exam is still and stable. According to the Attorney General's Office, over 150 people wish to take a lawyer's examination a year. Competitions for the positions of the prosecutor's office are characterised by a different number of candidates depending on the number of persons you are looking for, but 186 people have applied for one assistant prosecutor at the same time. Unfortunately, in line with the above-mentioned statistics on judges' competitions, the figures for the last four years (2010/2014) show that almost 50% of cases have failed to fill the judge's seat. This is clearly an unreasonable failure ratio of court competitions, which must not be overlooked, especially in a situation where the number of judges expected to be retired in the medium term amounts to one third of the seats filled today. It is noteworthy here that, if, according to the usual understanding, the failure of the court competition is associated primarily with the Viru County Court because of its regional peculiarities, the reality is that in the recent past, failed competitions have also been characterised by Harju and Tartu County Court. A dramatic example of this dates from December last year, when only one person remained at the final stage in the competition for three judges of the Harju County Court and one of the judges of the Viru County Court. Thus, three out of four judges failed on the ground that there were simply no candidates. The second example dates from March of this year, when two judges of the Harju County Court did not have any candidates to stand at the final stage. Nor is it irrelevant that, according to current practice, it takes almost one year to fill a judge's seat in the light of all the procedures involved. Each follow-up competition for the performance of a judge's seat shall mean that the time taken to fill the post must be multiplied by at least two. However, in the case of the filling of judges' seats, the Viru County Court is still a special case, where a total of 16 competitions have been announced to fill vacant seats from the beginning of 2010 until today, of which 12 have failed in part or in full. These are unambiguously worrying figures. When analysing what have been the main reasons for the failure of the judges' competitions so far, it has been either that candidates meeting the requirements for the judge have not participated in the competition, that the candidates have refused to apply, or that the panel has to reject the candidate because of insufficient knowledge or inappropriate personal characteristics. The latter also leads to a failure of the competition in the event of a shortage of candidates. The average number of candidates when a judge was sought was two at first instance, six at the district court and three at the Supreme Court for one place during the same period. The above modest comparative analysis thus shows, on the one hand, a lower degree of popularity among lawyers than with the Bar Association and the Prosecutor's Office, but, on the other hand, a radically different rate of success in court competitions, depending on whether the place is at issue in the Court of First Instance or in the District Court. The lack of candidates for the Court of First Instance must therefore be particularly concerned. What solutions could be possible to overcome the situation described above? Here I propose three steps for the legislator to consider, the implementation of which requires the amendment of the laws in force, mainly the law of the courts. First and foremost, I consider the need to broaden the scope for horizontal mobility between different legal professions, particularly judges, prosecutors and lawyers. The law in force is based on the understanding that becoming a judge, a prosecutor or a lawyer requires, inter alia, the passing of a professional examination which assesses the legal knowledge of the candidate. Qualification committees have been set up for the adoption of the examination and for the assessment of the individual characteristics of the candidate. However, the positive test result only gives the candidate a narrow right to enter the circle of legal professions. It cannot be transferred to other legal professions if the same lawyer wishes to move from, for example, prosecutorial service to judicial service or vice versa, for example, if he wishes to be a judge instead of a member of the Bar Association or vice versa. Thus, the examination of professional knowledge following the completion of academic studies is fragmented between individual corporations and there is no mutual recognition mechanism for examinations. Therefore, the practical follow-up to the current approach is the lack of mobility of lawyers between different corporations, since each change of profession usually entails the need for a new examination. From the point of view of the speaker here, such a solution is obviously unreasonable, certainly affecting to a certain extent the number of participants in the court competitions. Leaving aside, for a moment, the question of whether the knowledge of an academic graduate needs to be re-checked, however, I am pleased to note that today's consensus between the judiciary, the prosecutor's office and the representatives of the barrister's office suggests that mutual recognition of examinations of different professions may well become a reality in the near future. I very much hope that this will also be accepted by the legislator. Ideally, however, the Estonian legal order as a whole must move in such a way as to eliminate the need for us to re-check the knowledge of the graduates of the Faculty of Law before taking up any legal office. If we doubt the quality of legal education and consider the level of knowledge of graduates to be uneven, then perhaps a single additional examination would be sufficient, the result of which would be accepted by the entire legal community as a whole, regardless of the role that a person wishes to play. I therefore think that, in the long term, we should take a fresh look at the transition to a single legal examination, which would be a baccalaureate for all legal professions. This does not preclude, of course, that every legal corporation may not impose other criteria, such as those relating to personal characteristics or previous professional experience, on which the candidate is required to reply when it is admitted to its ranks. Secondly, I believe that a swift change is also needed in the current order to become a judge as a whole. With regard to the manning of our entire judicial system by an assistant member of the Advocate General's staff, the need for a separate judge's preparatory service, or candidate service, has clearly disappeared. Although it cannot be denied that the judicial system has received a number of very strong new judges through the candidate service in force since 2002, the situation has changed considerably since 1 January 2013 with the introduction of the post of Advocate General. In view of the fact that applying for an Advocate General's post is considerably easier than applying for a candidate for a Judge, whereas the Advocate General's salary is significantly higher than the remuneration paid to a candidate for a Judge, it is probably not exaggeration to claim that the candidate's service has lost topicality. The new timing after the arrival of the so-called Advocates-General would therefore be appropriate to build up the order to become a judge in such a way that the application for judicial office is equally possible for all lawyers who have been employed for a certain period in another legal capacity. Any other experience of previous legal work will only be of benefit to the judge. Whether to impose two, three or four years of prior professional employment as a judge is, of course, a decision-making place. The establishment of similar conditions for access to the judicial system will also allow a uniform training programme for all judges aimed at teaching the professional skills required for the judicial work. Thirdly, however, I would like Parliament to have the courage to take decisions now to deal with the key issues of the judicial service that are now taking place in the medium and long term. The current law on the salaries of senior civil servants provides for a decent remuneration for the judge, the size of which may not be ashamed of the comparison between the Member States of the European Union. At the same time, the unreasonably high rate of failure of judges shows that remuneration alone is not enough to motivate lawyers to take up their duties as judges. In view of the future, however, the question is not only how to fill the vacant benches as well as how to motivate the judges already appointed to serve in this capacity for as long as possible. The role of the judge is always a job at the hot point of conflict, thus being tense and heavily burdened. It must be acknowledged that since 2002, when the current Courts Act entered into force, the recipients are no longer entitled to a judge's pension, to a longer period of judicial leave or to a retirement pension for the years worked as a judge. For this reason, it is essential for the legislator to think now about what mechanisms could help those who join the justice system to stay with justice for as long as possible. This problem is particularly relevant in the case of new colleagues who have taken up office after 1 July 2013 or who are still in office, to whom the state is no longer aware of the guarantee of a judge's pension. So far, entering the office of judge has led to the knowledge that, after a minimum of 15 years of service, the judge has been insured with an income higher than the normal retirement age. The impact of this knowledge on the choices of the judiciary should not be underestimated. Taking also into account that the structure of the pyramid inherent in the judicial system simply makes it impossible for everyone to rise on the ladder of careers, because there are fewer judges at the highest level, it is important to seriously think about the benefits of motivating judges to serve justice as long as possible. The reversal of good indicators that presently characterise the low staff flow of judges is a development which the judiciary must seek to avoid in all forms. As the generally accepted understanding is that the judge's ability to resolve matters is increasing, and thus the quality of justice is expected to improve, in proportion to the length of time worked in the judicial profession, it is necessary to consider a more appropriate solution in the judicial system which makes it possible to combine the seniority of the judge with his professional benefits. In other words, the longer the time worked as a judge, the greater the social guarantees should be. In summary, at the moment, the biggest problem in the administration of courts and the most difficult task is to consider the upcoming generation exchange of judges. The judicial system needs many new colleagues to replace the judges that will be retired in the near future. At the same time, the high percentage of failures in the judicial competitions shows that the current Courts Act requires a decisive change in terms of both the organisation of becoming a judge and the judicial service. In order to change the situation, the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the judicial authorities, is preparing an appropriate draft law amending the law on courts, which will hopefully be handed over to the Riigikogu for discussion this year. I would like to hope that the discussion of this draft in Parliament will be a constructive debate on the problems of re-assembly of the judiciary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U6	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Mr Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U7	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Chairman of the Supreme Court, thank you for your presentation! As you have mentioned, you have a serious problem with succeeding, i.e. finding new judges. Have you also thought of such a matter that perhaps you, the judiciary, should start growing your own offspring, perhaps looking at young people with suitable personal qualities and interests at the university bench and keeping them under your so-called shefty?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U8	Thank you for that question. To be honest, the judicial system has already started to prepare its own offspring to some extent. The creation of an Advocate General's office in the same judicial system, which I spoke about in the report, gives this opportunity. We can see that the current Advocates-General clearly have an interest in standing as a judge in the future. This is the kind of reserve that the justice system is now putting great hopes on. The studies we have carried out also show that if a person is already involved in the judicial system, he has an interest in continuing in this system. There is, of course, another side. I do not regard as fundamentally correct the situation in which judges come only through the judicial system itself. In other words, a broader view of justice is also essential in the judicial system. This is often ensured when a person who takes up judicial office has previously held another legal profession, for example, worked as a prosecutor or lawyer or in the public service. This gives you an extra angle for things. The judicial system should not lose it under any circumstances. As regards work with students studying in the Faculty of Law or graduates of this faculty, the Supreme Court has done some things. Several members of the Supreme Court are also lecturers of the Faculty of Law, so we have a complete connection with the students. The problem, however, is that it is necessary for a person to have obtained a Master's degree in the field of law to become a judge. Previously, it is not possible to recruit someone from the judicial system based on the so-called 'acquired' legal education. This situation clearly creates certain advantages for the liberal professions, the Bar Association, because the owner of a law firm, as a private company, does not have such restrictions. Their chances of recruiting students who are still in legal education are considerably higher than the opportunities of the public service. In itself, yes, to sum up the answer to this question: we have been thinking about the preparation of succeeding growth, we are doing this and we can see that the Advocates-General are becoming one of the accounting reserves for filling judges' seats, but I think it is essential that the judicial system also comes from outside the system.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U9	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Chairman of the Supreme Court, thank you very much for a very good exchange and presentation. You have highlighted a number of problems and you have called on the legislative power to reflect and perhaps to start implementing some new things quite immediately. I understand that kind of perspective, but maybe you'll make some more concrete proposals? For example, the same loss of social guarantees. You can see that it actually has an effect. Would you make a suggestion? Could it be possible to re-establish social guarantees, such as a judge's pension? You already told me about the legal exam. What other thoughts do you have that could improve the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U11	Thank you for that question. I also mentioned in the report that the judicial system, through its local authorities, is in the process of preparing an appropriate draft law amending the law on courts, which is currently in the process of coordinating the intention to draft a bill in the Ministry of Justice's proceedings. There we have proposed to restore such a thing as a retirement leave for judges, i.e. to make the leave of judges dependent on the time spent in office: the longer a person has been in office as a judge, the longer his leave will be. The other thing I consider important is the retirement fee. When we look at how the remuneration of judges is structured in the major Member States of the European Union, there is a clear link between the time in office and the benefits of service. The judge's salary often increases as the longer he has been in the ministry. It is the same mechanism that seeks to ensure that the principle of the lifetime of a judge's office is realised in order for a person to continue in office as long as possible. These are the two main things that I consider important. It seems to me that, so far, in reforming professional benefits, the legislator has perhaps focused too narrowly on only one component. Only the burden of these benefits on the state budget has been considered. In my opinion, however, the assessment of the functioning of the system as a whole after the loss of certain benefits has unfortunately been overlooked. The judicial pension is no longer provided for colleagues entering office as of 1 July 2013. Indeed, it does not concern colleagues currently in office, but, as I emphasised in the report, in the medium and long term, it is clear that it will have an impact on the change of generation in the judicial system as a whole, because if a judge who thinks about putting down a job is not guaranteed a standard of living equivalent to that of the former after retirement, there is a risk that he will postpone the resignation as far as possible. There may be a problem that, at present, if there is a limit of 68 years of age in the judicial profession, the question may arise at some point whether this is really appropriate in a situation where, after that, an equivalent income is no longer guaranteed to a person. This, in turn, leads to a situation of standing water in the judiciary, where older colleagues are not getting out of the way and younger colleagues cannot enter the system or stop the system as such. It seems to me that you should always look at how one or the other factor affects the system as a whole, not very narrowly just one element.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U12	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear President of the Supreme Court! In your presentation, you focused on the future of the judicial system in terms of generational change. You spoke of a possible problem that the benches might not be filled in for a long time. Statistics on applications received by the Court of First and Second Instance last year are also among the materials distributed to us. Please comment on these figures! There are 54000 cases at first instance and thousands at second instance. Could you explain a little bit if there aren't too many of them? That's what it looks like when I'm standing by.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U14	Thank you for that question. Yes, in my report, I have added extracts from the statistics of the courts in recent years, namely by case. Frankly speaking, these figures are high, yes, but they have been somewhat reduced compared to the economic crisis. It can be said that at least the number of civil cases in the Courts of First Instance has stabilised at 27,000 on the border. Obviously, the number of criminal cases has decreased. This has a direct bearing on the general downward trend in the number of crimes. It is logical that the number of criminal cases will therefore also decrease. If we look at the statistics, we can see that in the last five years, the arrival of criminal cases in the courts has been steadily declining, and today it has stabilised in about 15,000 cases. However, the burden on judges in criminal proceedings has increased, at least partially, despite the decrease in the number of cases, the number of misdemeanours. There have been more complaints about misdemeanour cases in recent years. The collection of administrative matters has been relatively stable throughout the ages, being around 3,000 things in different years. It must be said that it is completely hopeless to predict the number of cases. The presidents of the courts have been trying to predict their work, but it's difficult. Just as human behavior is often unpredictable, it is unpredictable how much one year or another brings new cases. Therefore, the judicial system always reacts with a certain delay to the increase in the number of cases. However, the Estonian judicial system must also be praised. The latest European Commission comparative analysis of the effectiveness of the judicial systems in the Member States shows that Estonia is certainly among the first five in terms of the average duration of proceedings. On the other hand, looking at how much the Estonian state is contributing to the budget resources of the judicial system per person, we are among the last five on this list. Therefore, I dare say with certainty that the Estonian judicial system is working on the limits of its powers and we have absolutely the best justice available for this budget allocation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U15	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Pikamäe, thank you for this pretty thoughtful overview. It certainly gives me a broader look and also a sense of sympathy for the recognition of exams in different professions, but in solving future problems, the emphasis on social guarantees gives me the impression of swimming countercurrents. In Estonian society, ageing is a general problem; apparently it is not just a problem for the judiciary. As far as special pensions are concerned, the tendency is clearly to lose them. Members of the Riigikogu have also lost them long ago. At first, they must have been too luxurious. Shouldn't a solution be sought somewhere else? And please give your assessment of how useful you consider the three-stage judicial system that has developed in Estonia to be! Isn't that a little clumsy in some places?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U17	Thank you for that question. As far as the social guarantees are concerned, I fully understand that this is an anti-flow swimming process, but as a person responsible for the judicial system to some extent, it seems to me that it is my job to draw attention to the problems that we have encountered as a result of recent reforms. By the way, I dare say, however, that this abolition of occupational pensions or, as you said, special pensions has not been a common policy in the Estonian state. There are also sectors in the Estonian public service, where they have been introduced quite recently, in a slightly different form. One such sector is the prison service, where the state guarantees this benefit, indeed, in the form of a funded pension, but the state still contributes to the pension provision of prison officials. What I'm trying to say is that besides the once-known system of occupational pensions and its total abolition, there are also intermediate options. There are many possibilities. But the fact is, in some way, people must be motivated to continue in the judicial system. That's right. The function of judge is also particularly specific, since the principle of life expectancy requires that when a person takes office, he continues there for as long as possible. Because of the danger that we are currently experiencing to some extent that, in a situation where there are no more strong motivations, but there are temptations from outside the system, there may also be an increase in the turnover of the workforce among the judiciary, which certainly is not a welcome development in any sense. The second part of the question concerned the structure of the Estonian judicial system. I believe that the three-tier judicial system, which was established and adopted in the light of the current constitution, has certainly justified itself. My question has always been simply whether we necessarily need to deal with all or most of the cases at all three levels. I don't think that's appropriate. When we look at how appeal mechanisms have been built up in other Member States of the European Union, we can see that, as a rule, double appeal rights are not allowed because of its extreme resource intensity and high time-consuming costs. Moreover, in fact, our system is even more complicated. When we think about administrative matters, where a mandatory appeal procedure precedes a court, sometimes we have opportunities to appeal not three, but even five, in certain cases. I can't say it makes any sense. However, my proposal is to consider whether we can differentiate cases in any way, namely whether all things must necessarily start at first instance or whether certain things could start at first instance in a circuit court and some things would end in appeal proceedings in a circuit court. I think this is a very big place to think. The current system, it seems to me, is unreasonable at some points.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U18	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U19	Thank you, manager. Mr President of the Supreme Court, thank you for your very meaningful report. To sum up, the content of this report was such that neither the Estonian state can compete with the private sector. It is sad in itself, because in the judicial system people should work, who should not think every day about changing their occupation or about the fate that awaits them in the future, but should be adequately insured. After all, the quality of the decisions on which the country's constitutional order is guaranteed depends on it. For every person, such decisions are important. How much more of the system's money is needed to make the justice system competitive compared to the private sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U20	Thank you for that question. However, I dare say that the right addressee of this question is the Minister for Justice, because the administration of courts of first and second instance is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. I would rather see the Minister of Justice, in particular, taking the initiative, among other things, in the search for solutions to the problems raised in my report. I do not have these figures for you today, but I hope that, after my report, these figures will be clear in the course of the procedure for the drafts that I drew attention to here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U21	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U22	Thank you. Dear President of the Supreme Court! You mentioned the need to speed up the process of obtaining a judge's job. Simply put, we're going a little faster. Aren't you afraid that this will worsen the quality of the court's work? It's people who can't make mistakes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U23	Thank you. There are always two parameters in the justice system that must be pursued at the same time and as closely as possible. One is the average duration of proceedings, the legal dispute should be resolved as soon as possible, but the other is, of course, the substantive quality of this solution. The pursuit of a reasonable period of proceedings must not lead to a deterioration in the quality of the case-law. Combining these two parameters, to be acknowledged, is not always a very easy task. But I still think that our judicial system has succeeded. True, of course there are mistakes. The task of the appeal offices is to control and eliminate them. However, broadly speaking, I think that the system has stabilized at a point of equilibrium where we have a reasonable period of procedure and a substantive quality of the solution at the same time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U24	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! As former head of government, I will take this opportunity to ask you a question. In 2010, the Supreme Court issued a decision according to which the Riigikogu and the Government must specify exactly what the tasks of the state and local government are and, accordingly, finance all the tasks assigned to local governments. However, this decision has still not been complied with. How do you think it would be possible to make Supreme Court decisions mandatory for the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U26	Thank you for that question. Indeed, my presentation is accompanied by the constitutional review of the Supreme Court 2010/2014. A review of the implementation of the 2008 judgments, similar to that of the previous year's parliamentary report. This particular case, to which you referred in your question, concerns the case of funding for local authorities, which really dates back to 2009. The Supreme Court stated in the constitutional review procedure that the state must resolve this issue, i.e. it must specify what the local government is and what the state's tasks are. As far as I know, Parliament has also partly relied on this solution in the development of the new state budget law. The Act was adopted on 19 February 2014 and entered into force on 23 March 2014. There has really been an attempt to solve this problem to some extent. There is a provision concerning the reimbursement of the costs of carrying out the public task, but it will only enter into force from 1 January 2017. Therefore, it is difficult for me to say at the moment what the effect of the entry into force of this provision will be on resolving the problem raised by the Supreme Court. The analysis has not been carried out as there is no practical experience. However, as far as the legislator is concerned more generally with how the Supreme Court executes its decisions, I have also pointed out earlier in answering such a question that no coercive mechanism has been devised for this in any country. I can't imagine that such a coercive mechanism could exist either. In other words, it must still be the authority of the judgment which guarantees its enforcement. On the other hand, the separation of powers provided for in the Constitution, but also the mechanism of balance, which means, inter alia, that different branches of state power accept each other's solutions, is important.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U27	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U28	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, Mr. Waitress, for your excellent and comprehensive presentation. I want to touch on an area which may have been less addressed in connection with the trial, namely the administration of justice over military crimes. The experience of Ukraine shows what has led to the abolition of the military judiciary in 2012. It's far from discipline on the front. Perhaps Ukrainian defence activities would have been more effective if discipline had been stricter. In order for the legal system to operate in times of crisis or martial law precisely in relation to military crimes, it is necessary that this system be established during peacetime and that a certain practice has also been gained in implementation. We're lucky to have...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U29	Good colleague, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U30	... for nearly 20 years participating in international military operations, we did not need to judge our defence forces. What is your position on how the system fits into our judicial system?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U31	Thank you for that question. I must say that there has never been a separate branch of the Estonian judicial system of independence to investigate and prosecute the offences committed by defence forces. It has been part of the General Court system, which is the same general court that resolves other offences. In a small country like Estonia, I do not think it would be appropriate to start forming a separate branch of the judicial system for this. There are obviously other ways to solve this issue. Once, I remember, the idea was suggested that if the court were to discuss the crimes of the Defence Forces, at least in criminal matters, it could be envisaged that the people's fellows would be among the Defence Forces to resolve this issue. This would ensure sufficient professional competence in discussing these offences. This would be an intermediate way of regulating this issue. Right now, yes, I admit, there is no regulation. But maybe you could think about it. As far as the operation of justice in a war situation is concerned, this has been the subject of Estonian law enforcement. According to my memory, the previous annual meeting of the Estonian Reserve Officers' Assembly, accompanied by a seminar, focused on whether and to what extent justice works in such a difficult situation and what changes we would need in the laws of court proceedings. True, it was an academic debate. I don't know that there are any such drafts in the Justice Department's work plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U32	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! Money's always low. As I understand from what you have said, the Estonian judicial system can be satisfied with the results of its work and the so-called comparison of its funding, and it can be assumed that the Estonian judicial system has done very well. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U34	Thank you for that question. Yeah, you've got it perfectly right. I certainly dare say that the Estonian judicial system guarantees the best justice that can be obtained with the budgetary resources allocated to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U35	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U36	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear President of the Supreme Court! The Supreme Court has granted the request of the City Council of Tallinn and has declared it unconstitutional in the situation where the state imposed an obligation on the local government to partially fund private schools, but did not give it any money. The Ministry of Education and Research is now considering a legislative amendment that would make funding for private schools' operating grants optional for the local government. How do you assess a situation where support for private schools becomes very uncertain as a result?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U37	Thank you. I understand that this issue concerns one particular resolution of the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court, which really said that § 222 of the Private Schools Act, if memory does not deceive me, provides that the local government participates in the running costs of the private general education school and that for that purpose the state must provide resources. The position of the Supreme Court was that it is an obligation imposed on the local government by the state and, if the state acts in this way, the Constitution also states that it must contribute to this state obligation the budgetary resources paid out by the local government in carrying out this task, in this case to private general education schools. It is up to the state to decide which national obligations to impose on local authorities, whether to put them at all and to what extent, which is in the hands of the legislator. In other words, of course, the state can also change the existing model, for example by taking this responsibility away from local authorities, making it a purely state commitment and then directly financing it itself. There are very different angles of approach. I want to say that the legislator's hands are quite free to make these decisions. However, I would like to stress that, according to my memory, at the time that § 222 was introduced, its starting point was that national schools, local general education schools and private general education schools should be treated equally. This principle of equality remains important, in my opinion, because I believe that alternative pedagogy and alternative education are things that deserve support and have a solid place in our society. Of course, it must also be borne in mind that if the state decides to reshape this obligation, that private general education schools that have already received this support may have a legitimate expectation of receiving certain operating support in the future. For example, they may have made some kind of investment as a result of this legal provision in force. In other words, the transformation of the system must bear in mind that the implementing provisions also need to regulate the situation that arises after this obligation has been amended.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U38	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U39	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear President of the Supreme Court! My question concerns the reporting of the guardian. In the past, an overview of the patronage costs made by the guardian was provided to the municipality; in 2010 or 2011 it had to be submitted to the court. I don't expect you to be able to answer immediately, but my request would be to get information and information on whether there have been abuses. The guardian can be a family member, a municipality, an NGO or a foreign person. It has now been several years since the amendment. I'm just curious about how this process has happened. Maybe some legislative changes are needed. The Riigikogu has made one legislative amendment, which meant reducing the obligation to collect receipts.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U40	Thank you for that question. I must honestly admit that I cannot answer this detailed question today. True, I remember those debates that also emerged in the media that people have been given too detailed and burdensome a duty to report it. But I'm always willing to ask for this subject to be analyzed. I believe I can answer you in writing in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U41	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U42	Mr. Chairman of the Supreme Court, how do you currently assess the issue of time limits for pre-trial proceedings as a whole? I mean it in the complex, from the DA's office to the trial, until the trial is handed down, and the trial in the judicial system itself. The problem, as you know, is that there are processes that have been going on for five, six, seven, eight, nine years and have ended with an oportunity. I mean, the deadlines are clearly unreasonable. It is known that the law determines that the procedure must take place within a reasonable period of time. But this reasonableness is itself a very complicated concept, because the duration of a minute depends on which side of the toilet door you are on, and an excessive day is still very painful for the defendant or the investigated. Would it make sense to carry out some kind of review, whether these deadlines should be restored or whether the law should be formulated in more detail?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U43	Thank you for that question. As far as I know, the Ministry of Justice is currently working on the analysis of the Code of Criminal Procedure, including the pre-trial procedure, its speed and the possible setting of deadlines. I fully agree that too long pre-trial proceedings are a problem. Surely this problem is primarily from the perspective of a person subject to this procedure, whose fate remains open for a very long time. However, I have also always believed that this problem cannot be solved by restoring the deadlines for criminal investigations, as was the case in the Estonian SSR Code of Criminal Procedure or the Code of Criminal Procedure, which existed for a certain time after Estonia regained independence. In fact, if you look in depth at what is a normal reason for dragging proceedings, it is a lack of resources: a large number of things and a small number of people dealing with them. As long as this ratio does not change, i.e. the number of things will not decrease or the number of people will not increase, it will not be possible to deal with these things more quickly. I think that a normative move to set some deadlines will change nothing in this situation. If we recall even that time, when the time limits for criminal investigations were in force, often, we must admit that they did not speed up the procedure. I dare say that we have this experience historically and that this experience has not been positive. The roots of this phenomenon should still be addressed. One thing that could be seriously considered, however, is the introduction of the principle of opportunity at the start of the procedure. After all, we now know that in criminal proceedings, certainly at least in criminal proceedings, the principle of legality applies, which means that in all cases where the signs of a crime appear, proceedings must be initiated and carried out. The question is, if we are prepared to admit that we do not have the resources to deal with all things, do we suddenly change the principle of opportunity, which is now an oportunity of termination, i.e. the procedure must be carried out and then may be terminated, into an oportunity of initiation, i.e. to make a decision when the application for a crime is received? Perhaps we should decide whether it is appropriate for us to deal with this matter or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U44	Thank you, President of the Supreme Court, for your review and your answer to questions. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. Let's move on with the negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Central Party of Toomas Vitsut. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U45	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! Ladies and gentlemen, The Honorable President of the Supreme Court in his presentation had an emphasis on which I would like to add another approach to the problem, which also emerged when answering questions. Between 2010 and 2014, the Supreme Court identified shortcomings, i.e. constitutional provisions or legal loopholes in 98 cases. In two cases, the founder of the case was the Tallinn City Council, the chairman of which I had to participate actively in the preparation and processing of these cases. Both cases have already been mentioned in this Chamber today. I will stop at one of them because this is a problem that does not only concern one municipality. In dealing with this problem, Tallinn City Council acted rather than a local government attorney, trying to solve the problem more widely and to protect the interests of all local governments. On 16 March 2010, the Supreme Court ruling on the financing of local governments and state obligations was published, declaring it unconstitutional not to issue legislative acts that lay down the obligations imposed by law on local government entities to be self-governing and which state-owned entities, and distinguishing the funds for local government entities from the funds for the execution of public obligations for the decision-making and organisation of local life issues, and providing for the financing of state-owned liabilities imposed on local government entities from the state budget. Despite the solution, there have been no changes for local governments to date, while the representatives of the state authorities consider this Supreme Court ruling to be fulfilled. At least that's what they say when it comes to one situation or another. The parties disagree. The drafting of the State Budget Act 513 and the adoption of this Act on 19 February 2014 will enable the representatives of this state authority to recognise the implementation of this Act. However, since the provisions on covering the costs of the public task will enter into force on 1 January 2017, this decision cannot in fact be considered to be fulfilled. The total number of decisions of the Supreme Court is 12. This does not show the Riigikogu or government in the best light. When we call on ordinary citizens to comply with the law, but at national level we overlook judgments, it demoralizes the law in general. As a new member of the Riigikogu, I hope that the old bad habits will still become history here in the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U46	Thank you. I would like to ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Heljo Pikhofi for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U47	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Chairman of the Supreme Court! Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much to the President of the Supreme Court for a meaningful and brilliant presentation! I very much hope that solving the problems of the judicial system that have been highlighted here today is equally important to all fellow officials and that we are above the political differences on these issues. I would like to follow up on some of the problems that I and our group may think are more important. For the first time this year, the head of the Supreme Court's review of the main issues of judicial activity focused not so directly on the quality of lawmaking, but rather on the very serious problem of judicial administration arising from the current legal order. In fact, a large-scale generational exchange has begun in the judicial system, with almost a third of the judiciary retiring in the near future. It was very clear here today that one of the biggest problems facing the whole judicial system, which is getting worse year after year, is the shortage of labour. Concerns are raised by the threateningly high percentage of the failure of the judges' competitions. This fact should be seen here today as an indicator to which an urgent response is needed. After all, the health and sustainability of the judiciary is no less important for the functioning of the state than the smooth functioning of the legislative and executive powers. Yes, it is unlikely that, without changing the current regime of becoming a judge, this problem can be satisfactorily resolved. Something is very wrong when even under the conditions of overenrichment of highly educated lawyers, there are not enough applicants or suitable candidates for a classic and authoritative profession such as the judicial profession. It cannot be argued that the remuneration of a judge is disproportionately low given the complexity of his work and the responsibilities involved. The judge is a senior public official whose remuneration is fully competitive in relation to both the public service and private sector wage conditions. It is also clear that concessions cannot be made on the professional knowledge and personal characteristics of the judge. At the same time, just a while ago, we were relatively irresponsiblely cutting down on the social guarantees of judges. In fact, this led to uncertainty, which will certainly have a negative impact on people's survival in the system. Good fellows! We should focus on the organisational side of the application for judicial office provided for by the Courts Act. I fully agree with the President of the Supreme Court that the current organisation should be reformed so that the preparatory service of the candidates for judges as the preparatory phase of the judicial office disappears, as it will be successfully replaced by the official service of the Advocate General established in the course of the last judicial reform. The establishment of a successful Advocate General's office will enable the Advocates-General to be the main plant stage of the judiciary in the future, since the advancement of the Advocate General to the post of Judge makes sense both in terms of careers and in terms of minimum retraining or in-service training. The skills and experience of the Advocate General shall be fully exercised in the judicial capacity. It would certainly be an appropriate measure to facilitate the horizontal movement of classical lawyers (advocate, prosecutor, judge) through the introduction of a single qualification examination. However, there may be a problem with the criterion of the suitability of personal characteristics, as it is known that candidates of judges, unlike, for example, lawyers, must carry out security checks and fully comply with the conditions for access to state secrets. We must deal with these issues in substance and depth in the Riigikogu. It is also right that the legislator must see the judiciary in a far-reaching perspective. I mean... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U48	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U49	... that the question is not only how to fill the vacant benches as best as possible, but also how to motivate the judges already appointed to serve in this capacity for as long as possible. I believe that the remuneration of a judge must be the main motivation to remain in office for the long term, and that social guarantees are also important. Finally, I would like to draw attention to another important fact on which the President of the Supreme Court did not stop in his presentation, but what comes out of the statistics on judicial activities. We are talking about the decisions of the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court, which require the activities of the legislator, but for which the legislator has not yet started to process the relevant drafts. Indeed, this is not in line with good legal behaviour under the democratic rule of law. Although there is nothing new and unprecedented here, we must confess to sin. However, not all the shortcomings and omissions highlighted are under the control of the legislator. According to the review, of the 40 judgments of the Supreme Court, the legislator currently has a total of 12. This is an unfinished job, which, unfortunately, does not depend solely on the will of the Riigikogu committees. The provisions of different laws declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court need first analysis and coordination at the level of ministries as competence centres and the Government of the Republic. That is why we expect drafts from the Government of the Republic. The Socialist Group thanks the Honorable President of the Supreme Court for his meaningful presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U50	Thank you. I ask Kalle Laaneti, representative of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, to the Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U51	Mr President, eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U52	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U53	Ladies and gentlemen, Chairman of the Supreme Court, thank you for your meaningful overview! I understand very well why this year's review of the President of the Supreme Court deals with the sustainability of the judiciary. In the coming years, a record number of judges will reach retirement age, with 28% of the judges due to have this right by 2020. It is particularly worrying that a large number of court competitions have failed in recent years. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. On the basis of the figures for 2008, almost 50% of cases failed to fill the bench. Consequently, we face the challenge of ensuring the sustainability of a constitutional institution, namely the judiciary, in order to meet society's expectations. I agree that becoming a judge must be made more flexible. Candidates should be required to have four to five years of legal experience and pass a judicial examination instead of a long preparatory service. The examination of regulated legal professions (advocates, prosecutors, notaries) should also be mutually recognised. This would encourage flexible movement from one area to another, avoiding too long and time-consuming training. Making the system more flexible will certainly broaden the experiential base of professionals working in the legal field. For example, the Public Prosecutor's Office Act provides for the possibility to appoint a person who has worked for one year as a prosecutor or for three years as a judge, as a police officer, as a lawyer or in any other capacity requiring in-depth knowledge of criminal law and procedure. Or an example of the Police and Border Guard Act: The Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board can be named as a person who has long-term experience in managing a large organisation at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Defence, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Defence Police Department, the Information Board, the Rescue Board, the Tax and Customs Board, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Prison Service or a court. The second question raised by the President of the Supreme Court in his review of the difficulties of the judicial office was how to keep the judges who are already in office and who are still in office with the judiciary, motivating them to choose this profession for life. On 1 July 2013, the Regulation of the Courts Act entered into force, which exponentially increased the remuneration of judges, but abolished their long leave and special pensions. The purpose of the regulation was to abolish special pensions throughout the country and to switch to the funded pension system. As life has shown, salary alone may not compensate for lost social security and it does not motivate you to remain a judge for a long time. The place of weighing shall be the restoration of additional days of leave for judges. For example, if a judge has worked for more than five years, his holiday would be 38 days if he had worked for more than ten years, then 41 days etc. In other countries, it is more common to link the benefits associated with the function of judge to seniority. This is the case in Germany and Finland, for example. Consideration may also be given to linking the judge's salary to seniority. Whatever decisions are made to ensure the sustainability of the judiciary, it is certain that these decisions must be taken. I also stop at the statistics given in the annexes to the overview of the President of the Supreme Court. Between 2010 and 2014, the Supreme Court found the constitutional incompatibility of the legal provisions in a total of 98 cases, including a high rate of state fees in 59 decisions against the Constitution. This does not mean that the Riigikogu does not consider their compatibility with the Constitution when establishing legal rules. Control of constitutionality is an integral part of the parliamentary stage of lawmaking, but not all cases in life can be foreseen even by the smartest legislator. It is inevitable that some legal provisions will prove to be unconstitutional. Sometimes the contradiction can only be revealed in the context of a specific dispute. It should also be taken into account that the Riigikogu is a collegial body with a natural multiplicity of opinions, as well as a different understanding of the constitution. The decisions of the Supreme Court in constitutional monitoring matters are also often accompanied by differences of opinion between the minority judges. However, it cannot be denied, of course, that Parliament should have thoroughly analysed the constitutionality of the regulations on a number of occasions. However, this has not been done either because of the rapid pace of proceedings due to the economic downturn (unconstitutionality of too high state fees) or because of other reasons. I believe that cooperation between the legislative and judicial authorities is broadly working well. The courts shall exercise justice by respecting the legislator's margin of discretion, to the extent that the Constitution permits. Parliament must do its utmost to try to establish constitutional rules. What worries Parliament, however, is that the 12 decisions taken during the constitutional review of the Supreme Court in the course of legal proceedings have declared the regulation unconstitutional, but the legislator has not initiated constitutional regulation, although it should have done so. This is due in some cases to a lack of financial resources (e.g. in the case of a farm obligation) or to the complexity of finding a constitutional solution (e.g. in the arms law). However, they cannot be the reasons for non-compliance. We have to work hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U54	Thank you. I now ask Jüri Adams, representative of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U55	Good manager, eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U56	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U57	Dear President of the Supreme Court! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will try to address three issues on the authority of the Free Party. In fact, these are the same issues as previous speakers. First of all, I think that the problem of the judiciary, the number of judges, although this seems to be the most urgent of all to the President of the Supreme Court, is probably the easiest to solve. It is based on a phenomenon that I would call the need for a frame of motion. This is a perfectly normal phenomenon in all new countries. This is the second time in Estonian history. This means that, when a country is created at some point, new positions are generally filled by one generation of people who, more or less at the same time, also retire. In the long run, such wave waves are starting to shrink. Probably in about a hundred years, this problem will cease to exist. In 1960, a translation sample of the texts of C.N.Parkinsonian English author, entitled 'Parkinsonian law and other administrative studies', was published in the Creative Library. On the one hand, it was a witty sarcasm, but on the other, it described a number of serious and sort of eternal state-building issues. In the context of the current issue, it is particularly recalled that Parkinson's approach to the question of how it is most appropriate to find suitable candidates for vacant posts. The general response of Parkinson was this: the requirements for candidates should be drawn up so strict that there will be as many candidates as there are vacancies. If there is a situation where there are not enough candidates for the competition, then the demands must be lowered. This is the situation that seems to be facing the setup of judges today. I would rather be afraid of a situation in which the requirements of becoming a judge are being lowered too much and every vacancy is being pursued by tens of candidates. Then it would be much harder and more embarrassing than it is now. Nor am I sure that money is the gold key that fills these places. The state budget should look at and calculate how much budget money could be needed and possible to contribute and whether this problem cannot be solved without adding money. The second issue is the problem of constitutional monitoring and the implementation or follow-up of the results of this review. There are two ways in which all important work in the world is done: whether someone is personally interested in doing this work or whether someone is hired or hired who has a daily job assignment to perform the corresponding section of work. This relates to a question that requires the Ministry of Justice in the Republic of Estonia. In the 1990s, the Ministry of Justice became our super ministry, the way it is now the Ministry of Finance. But when the big drafts and laws were completed, there was a question about how to fill the officials' working days. In my opinion, this piece of work, the implementation of the decisions of the Supreme Court and the submission of the relevant drafts to the Riigikogu should be a trivial, everyday piece of work of the Ministry of Justice. It should probably be written into the law and the ministry's statute, and it should be done for the work of specific people. There's no problem here. If there's any question at all, that's why it hasn't happened in the meantime. At this point, I note that there is a problem with the decisions of the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court that have not succeeded best. From time to time, some of these things happen that, years later, conversations between themselves admit that this may not have been the best decision. Of course, we cannot require the Supreme Court to renegotiate or admit that an error has been made or that the decision has not resisted the test of time. The last question I want to touch on is the problem of lawyers' professionalisation box partitions. Since the beginning in Estonia, we have established a certain medieval model of tsunami. It was based partly on the experience of pre-war Estonia that there are a number of specialty boxes and a person moves up in them from the bottom of his life. It is atypical in today's world, where successful and talented people generally move up in such a way that around every five years they change specializations, start working on another, often opposite, specializations. It should be beneficial for society if a person can develop his or her abilities to the maximum, so that he or she can make the most of himself or herself. The partitions of these boxes need to be broken to give people space to move back and forth. I am thinking not only of prosecutors and lawyers here, but certainly also of notaries, and there are also a number of small lawyers who operate in economics. It would also be necessary for these people to come here to the Riigikogu. It would be beneficial for the Estonian state and the people if a person who has carried out himself in one of these fields and who has exhausted the interest in exercising himself could go towards higher goals. I do not like the word jargon like 'human capital', but I think it is in Estonia's interest to develop the maximum natural and working capacity of every person. We could be serious about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-04_U58	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Before I finish this point, allow me, on behalf of the Riigikogu, to thank Priit Pikamäe, the President of the Supreme Court, for his report and thank you for your answers! Dear colleagues, thank you for your questions and your opinions in the round of negotiations. I shall conclude the first item on the agenda. Since there are no more items on the agenda, I wish you strength in our work. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 11.21 a.m.
