ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U1	Good fellows, good morning. We will begin the 6th working week Thursday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U2	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, I hand over the draft amendment to § 5 of the Income Tax Act. We are initiating this draft because the Riigikogu is currently discussing the state budget for the coming year. In the next state budget, however, there is no message to local governments or at least there is no positive message for them. As early as 2009, a large part of their revenue base was taken away from cities and municipalities with a negative supplementary budget and was said to be a temporary measure during the crisis, but no steps are still taken in 2016 to restore the pre-crisis situation. That is why we are now handing over the draft, which aims to restore, in three steps, the local government revenue that the municipalities had before 2009. The share of income tax withdrawn and, in addition, the reduction decisions of the Equalisation Fund in 2009-2012 have reduced local living resources to almost EUR 190 million. This is the amount of less money available in towns and municipalities for, for example, kindergartens, schools and street lighting, repair, youth work and also sports activities. Thus, the purpose of the draft is to give local governments the funds taken back with these cuts, in a situation where Estonia's GDP is no longer falling, but is slowly growing. It is clear that simply merging municipalities will not solve the problem if the merged municipalities also have no resources to carry out their tasks. I expect the majority of the Riigikogu to understand that the cuts during the crisis must be reversed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U3	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Dmitri Dmitriyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to report today to the Minister for Social Protection on the concentration of posts in the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The government plans to mobilise 750 people, or 1.5% of the public sector's workforce. The savings after redundancies would amount to around EUR 13 million per year. Only recently, 5%, or 71, of employees in the Ministry of Social Affairs' administration was raised. It is now planned that the state sector will be made redundant, which is particularly concerned with the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs, from which 235 people will be made redundant. Thus, the reverse move is now clearly planned. The data on which redundancies are concerned are very incomplete. We therefore have quite a number of questions. For example, how is it planned to re-distribute such a large number of people's work after these posts have been lost? Given that the social sector is one of the most sensitive in society, the concentration within the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs is quite a risky step. How will the functioning of such an important sector and the quality of services be ensured even after redundancy? For example, managers of major hospitals have also received orders to pool staff. How much is the Ministry planning to pool staff from health care institutions and who are specifically affected by this decision? We have more questions to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U5	Good fellows! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and one inquiry. According to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. I'm in a pretty complicated situation now. On 28 October, a small business support group was set up. I understand that its formation will continue today and that all members of the Riigikogu who wish to join the Small Business Support Group will be asked to meet in this Chamber after the Riigikogu sitting. I also understand that the caller of the team is Maris Lauri. The prayer is that if we form these groups, we could announce the formation first and only then start collecting signatures. That's the way it could be. Please, let's do the presence check! 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present and missing 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U6	Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. The first item is the third reading of the Bill 72 on Chemicals, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. We can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put the bill 72 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu, no votes against and 2 abstentions. Bill 72 of the Chemicals Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U7	Let's move on to the second item. The third reading of the draft law amending the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 76 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu, no votes against and 2 abstentions. Draft Act 76 amending the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U8	Dear colleagues, we have come to the third item on the agenda. The Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, will present a presentation on the implementation of developments in legal policy. Let me briefly present how we will deal with this item. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] First of all, Urmas Reinsalu is a report that lasts up to 30 minutes. Then there are questions. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. After that, there are negotiations in which only and only the representatives of the political groups take part in the speeches. As usual, the Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the debate. It is a great honour for me to ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair of Justice Minister Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U9	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Parliament is making laws in Estonia. Do we do this by changing the laws of the Estonian state three times in the middle of the next three years and by changing these laws four times in the next four years? Or are we not? The situation in lawmaking is out of control.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U10	Minister, I am so sorry. Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall. Please respect the waitress and those who want to listen! Quiet in the hall, please! Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U11	I am not going to talk about this report on the implementation of the statistical legislative policy that is available to all Members. I want to talk about what I believe is most important in justice policy and legislation. This is the extent to which we produce laws and the speed with which we deal with draft laws. When we created our national legal order in the early 1990s, supersonic legislation was justified and necessary. Similarly, there was a very clear justification for this when we wanted to become a member of the European Union. Now we have a national legal order and it works. However, the pace of change of the rules has not slowed down, but its speed and volume are increasing. On 1 January of last year, 386 laws were in force in Estonia. Only in three sessions, three sessions! At least once, 320 out of 386 have been amended. As I said, if we continue at this rate, we will change all laws at least three times during this parliamentary term. Mass production of laws increases administrative burden and does not allow society to sufficiently understand the effects of laws. Yes, the fundamental principle of the rule of law is that matters governing the fundamental rights of persons and how public authority must behave in relation to major problems in society are governed by law. However, overregulation is contrary to the nature of the rule of law, as it makes it difficult to predict the right and creates a cascade of rules in which it is difficult for a bona fide person or subject to cope. The authority's resources are generally money to share, and the rules to create. It's real power. When new rules are created on a massive scale, bureaucracy, or the government sector, will also increase. There's a universal connection. We have a good legislative policy on paper, which I am reporting on here. We have a code of good regulation and regulation that should, in theory, avoid what, unfortunately, works as a bad example in practice. We need to start following these principles. In fact, in many cases they remain a theory and only on paper. During the summer, I made proposals to the Cabinet to reduce the volume of legislation. The Ministry of Justice is currently working on a plan to implement this plan. This plan is for a short and clear purpose: let us brake the mass production of laws! You see, law-based social overregulation and the mass production of laws can be assessed quantitatively. But in many ways this remains a cognitive issue for society, which cannot be expressed with 'formalistic dimensions'. I argue that Estonian society has a sense that legislation has become over-regulating, too fast and too fickle. I set up a legislative advisory board at the Ministry of Justice, first and foremost, in order to understand the country's legal policy stance. It is led by Jüri Raidla, including Allar Jõks, Ülle Madise, Lauri Mälksoo, Toomas Luman, Jaan Ginter, Annika Uudelepp, Mihkel Oviir, Lasse Lehis and Valdo Kalm. The first and clear message from this council to me was that the most important issue in legislative policy must be, from the point of view of the country's competitiveness, people's freedoms and the rule of law, to slow down the mass production of laws. The speed of law production is extremely high and it is growing. There is a serious problem that people cannot adapt to the new law. We need to establish a legislative approach, and this requires, above all, Parliament's attitude towards the ultima ratio principle. Every new bill must have a presumption of guilt. Its creators have a duty to prove to the public and to Parliament that this law is absolutely necessary and that there is no other way of resolving this issue. And the justification that this law needs to be done either for the sake of legislative aesthetics or for the regulation of administrative filigranities is not sufficient. When I approached stakeholders with my proposals to reduce the volume of legislation, the feedback was very clear and unambiguous. I quote the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce: 'The Chamber of Commerce agrees with the Ministry of Justice that the speed of legislative change is one of the problems of legislation. This is confirmed by the number of drafts analysed by the Chamber of Commerce per year. In 2012, we issued an opinion on ca 90 drafts in the field of entrepreneurship, but last year the number was almost 140. We believe that it is often not necessary to amend legislation, it would also be sufficient to improve supervision, to better implement existing rules or to raise legal awareness, but it is often preferable to develop a draft as a solution to the problem. [---] The Chamber of Commerce considers it very important that the administrative burden on undertakings does not increase overall from year to year. [---] Therefore, the impact of the proposed changes on the business environment should also be taken into account when drafting drafts. ' The Estonian Association of Non-profit Associations and Foundations, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the e-Governance Academy, Praxis, the Estonian Cooperation Assembly and the Open Government Partnership Round Table presented their common position: 'We consider that the overall objective of the plan to comply with the principle of ultima ratio in lawmaking deserves support and a specific action plan for more effective implementation of this principle. The shortcomings in the quality of regulation have also been repeatedly highlighted by NGOs, who often face two extremes, either with an unplanned legislative process aimed at monitoring the unclear and complex course of action, or with abusing and overly bureaucratic regulation of initiative. 'The Chamber of the Service Economy supports the approach that, wherever possible, it should be based on the fact that society itself is able to regulate its relations to a significant extent, based on value, rather than by means of specific burdensome regulations given by the State, the enforcement of which is known to be persistently inadequate, and therefore does not have the necessary authority vis-à-vis the norm provider. I will present to the Riigikogu my proposals on what to do. These proposals mean that shaping this political stance is not a question of a specific draft, because ideological choices in Parliament are always world-view water-y, but the question is how we shape legislation is really in Parliament's hands. The change can begin with the philosophical definition of what the national legislation should be. First. Every new law must be preceded by an intention to develop. I will announce from this speaker that as a minister, I intend not to coordinate those draft laws which do not have a plan to develop, with the exception of cases of crisis with legitimate reasons. There must be a border somewhere and this border has reached Estonia. It is astonishing that this intention, which states the idea of a new law in a short form, should, in theory, be on all draft laws at the moment, with the exception of cases of crisis, but in practice it was only 19% of the draft laws last year. During the seven months of this year, it has been only 9% of the draft laws. What's the point? It is not a formal document that briefly summarises the idea that some kind of law is needed, but it is a real inclusion that, at the earliest stage, makes it possible to take a position on whether it is a sensible thing or overregulation. You see, when it's done, when the car has come off the line, there's an explanatory statement and a very professionally prepared legislative text, it's very difficult for stakeholders and politicians to challenge its birthright, because then you're already in this paradigm. Therefore, we will succeed in curbing legislation when we can discuss these intentions in substance. This is also an opportunity for Parliament to gain greater power in its supervision of the government. I call on the committees to start discussing, together with the ministers, the plans for drafting draft laws, the ideas that ministers are planning to bring before Parliament. This really increases the factual power of Parliament enormously. The criticism put forward by the national authorities on my proposal that all draft laws must have an intention to develop was very strong. My conclusion is that the authorities understand that if all the draft laws have an intention to develop and Parliament is able to shape its positions during the drafting phase, the control room will slip somewhere else. This means a different legislative process. We have also seen so far that the plans for development have had a positive impact. In 2015 we have seen in three cases that if the intention to develop has been drawn up, but it has not found public support, then it may have happened that there will never be a law. It's positive, not negative. It is also possible to solve substantive problems during the planned phase of development. For example, in the beginning of the year, I will mention the development of an automated system for applying for social benefits. We see a problem with plans to develop that we do not try to propose an alternative to how the issue can be resolved in a non-regulatory way. For example, in 2014 the intention to develop the Customs Act was to reduce customs workload and ensure a better quality service for customs agencies in such a way that they were required to pass an examination every five years. However, the intention did not reveal what would be the point of creating this burden if, in fact, this issue could also have been resolved in the form of information exchange and cooperation. After the draft was drawn up, the examination obligation was withdrawn. The authors of the intention to develop could not later justify the reasonableness of the examination. In some cases, there has been a problem that there is a plan to develop, but the bill will follow in a very short time. In my opinion, it gives the impression that the bill has actually existed before and that the intention to develop has simply become a formal bureaucratic document. This certainly cannot be the point of the intention to develop. I will mention, for example, the draft law amending the Security Authorities Act and the Police and Border Guard Act, which was submitted for coordination at the end of June this year. At the time of the co-ordination of the draft was scheduled for July, and already in September this law was expected to enter into force. So, the presumption of the guilt of the new draft laws. Secondly, the law must have an intention to develop, with a brief description of what the new regulation is intended to do, and show that it is an unalterable and most sensible solution in the interests of society. Second. I propose that a serious parliamentary hearing be given under the leadership of Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the issue of reducing the volume of legislation and that the legislative doctrine of this Parliament be formulated as regards the policy on the volume of legislation. No political force has allowed more bureaucracy and rules. Raise the hand who promised it before the election! Today, the question is what is the balance that balances the perpetuity of an official body in the regulation of the mobile system. This balance can be the government to do; this balance must be the legislator to do. Three. Let us not rush into making new laws. If Parliament considers the impact of the draft law to be confusing, then the time must be taken off and a new impact analysis called for. We'll make fewer laws and give them our time to come into force. A hundred fewer legislative changes next year are completely realistic demands. Four. One part of the law has its own political and ideological dimension, where, as I said, there is a world-view water heater. However, the lion's share of the law is one that is not the subject of any political debate in this House. These are passionate regulations. Jüri Raidla has said that on the day that the Riigikogu reaches the joint conviction that some law is overregulation and rejects it from the procedure, parliamentarianism has actually entered into force in Estonia. Five. I call on the Auditor General to assess the increase in the legal burden of society in his report to the Riigikogu. We need to establish the principle that when there is a new administrative regulation, the burden on businesses must be reduced somewhere. This must be called for in particular in the area of the Committee on Economic, Monetary and Environmental Affairs. In the 1990s, legislation was related to GDP by the fact that the existence of rules and the ability of society to protect private property brought money to Estonia, foreign investments. In the last decade, the European rules that we have enforced brought us both the European Union's funds directly and the money through foreign investment and the opened internal market. This led to a recovery in the economy. Now there is a risk that the opposite is the case, and new rules can hinder the growth of wealth and the earning of money in society. Six. A large part of the legislation is the implementation of European Union law. In front of this proliferation, we are twice as defenseless. We must also use the ultima ratio principle for all the new rights issues in the European Union. This legislation must not be taken as a far-reaching matter, because, if, by force majeure, the Council of Ministers of the European Union has adopted a legislative mandate, it will enter into our national legal order, where Parliament will actually have 'limited powers' in implementation. When transposing the directives, it is important to make clear that there is a contour where there is a requirement to transpose the directive and where more things need to be taken over by our own national zeal than is actually foreseen. An entire peasant's mind is also necessary in the European Union. If we can establish this attitude in the legislation of our country, we must also introduce it more rigidly into the common legislation of the European Union. Seven. I call for the removal from the procedure of unnecessary internal regulation which does not guarantee people's rights, but merely regulates technical procedures. I call on the Riigikogu to ask more for the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice how much there really is to be regulated at the level of the legislator in some completely legitimate areas of life and to what extent it could be excluded from the text of the law. Once again, overregulation is not a virtue that guarantees the rule of law. Eight. New laws are coming up, but what happened to the old ones? Where are all the flowers, what's become of them now? I call on all the committees to choose the three most important laws adopted last year, to appoint a rapporteur for each and to carry out an impact assessment. If this assessment results in some kind of ineffectual repeal of regulation, then it is a very nice result. If the assessment is to say that everything is okay, it is also very good because it guarantees a certain right of life and stability to the existing rule. If the assessment says something went wrong and the expected impact was not achieved, then it is the best feedback, because the faulty thing is fixed. Look, when are these plans to be developed going to work in the long run? If we first have an idea on the table that we want to regulate, it has found its legitimacy in the law, and if we later carry out an ex-post audit on more important matters in order to make sure that this idea has been realised, then it will make it possible to change the reality of the plans for development in the perspective of time. Otherwise, they may in many ways remain a declaratory and unilateral act. I would like to say once again that this, in my opinion, greatly increases the real parliamentary oversight power of the committees. The most important laws must be ex-post rated by the circa over the following year. The ninth. The government has its own legislative agenda. I propose that this legislative work plan, drawn up by and carried by the Ministry of Justice, be introduced to the Riigikogu after it has been put together for the following year. The committees would also be able to provide feedback on this. What's the problem now? This big picture, which is going to happen in the legislation of our country, I am not talking about European Union legislation, is, in my opinion, extremely difficult to perceive. The legislator, no matter what, belongs to the coalition or opposition, and in which committee he is in, has a hard time grasping the so-called great legislative field, much less in the case of European Union law. The important thing is that we try to make sense of this picture so that it is in front of our eyes. Then we will also be able to make wider legal policy choices. I reject, as I said, world-view or ideological choices concerning the resolution of one or another particular problem in society. Tenth. With all the new rules, it must be possible to say whether they increase society's prosperity or not. The most important questions in life are always the easiest to answer. Will this bill slow down or increase GDP growth? In my opinion, it is possible to evaluate almost all draft legislation, whether in the area of freedom or combating crime, also in the social field. Yes or no, that answer must be in front of our eyes when we make a decision. This must be set out in all the plans for development, because our competitive situation is serious, it is real. The problem is that these new rules are working against our competitiveness. Let's get this straight. Lawyerong has been driving in one direction. We're all on this train. We have been there, and we are still on this train with our tasks, the government, the public authorities, the active politicians, who are legislators. The current trend is that the train moves in one direction and increases its speed. The question is whether this has been our deliberate choice. If not, we wonder if we are satisfied with this direction. If we find out we're not, we'll slow down. I very seriously count on the cooperation of all the political forces to make these points clear. This is one of the options we have reached in our national legislative policy. This choice is in Parliament's hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U12	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U13	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Justice! Although your recent speeches have given me the impression that, as Minister of Justice, you are no longer adequate and should receive some soothing injections or rest on your duties, I must say that something as intelligent as this speech has not yet been heard in this Chamber. So, as they say, twelve points from me. I sincerely agree with you that this is the way to do it. But tell me now how many of the drafts we have to start and process here this year should, in essence, be sent to the trash can. Maybe you can tell me what they are.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U14	Thank you. I congratulate you on your skill in insulting and complimenting one sentence, so twelve points for that. But look, when I started thinking about reducing the volume of legislation this summer and we started discussing this angle at the Ministry of Justice, it turned out that this is where the devil lies. It is extremely difficult to say that there is no need for any single legal provision that has been developed and regulates something, or that it is not necessary, it is either a law supplementing the Law on Natural Gas or some other rule. If you have the idea that we are making a list and saying that there are bad and good laws and we are deleting bad laws and keeping only good laws or adopting only 'good laws', then I am convinced that this will not result in our judicial policy. This is also demonstrated by international experience when such an objective is set. We can achieve that, in general, we are slowing down the pace of legislation. This certainly also applies to the so-called good laws that, we think, need to be dealt with for world-view reasons or because of the need to regulate society. No one is the smart guy to say the exact answer here, but because of the speed and volume we have in the legislation today, the probability that the element of error, irrationality or unnecessaryity will come in is simply greater than the order of magnitude according to probability theory.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U15	Good fellows! One of the tasks of the President of the Riigikogu is to keep the session straight. I very much ask that we maintain our respect and respect for our fellows by asking questions! Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U16	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good minister! I also very much agree with the points and the thinking that you have been talking about here. But it seems to me that you are a little overestimating Estonia's role in lawmaking. Germany has carried out an analysis showing that about 85% of the laws actually result from the transposition of European Union law. In Britain, a slightly smaller percentage has been obtained, around 80. It is likely to depend on methodology and perhaps on opt-outs. This is hardly the second order of magnitude in Estonia. I see in the Committee on Monetary Affairs how we are almost exclusively dealing with the transposition of European Union law if there is no state budget debate. How much is it possible for Estonia not to go along with this too fast and too much legislation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U17	Undoubtedly, we are a Member State of the European Union, and that is why we are working on our legislation. My message was that we are codecision in the European Union on the Council of Ministers' legislation, as well as on the working groups that have some concrete initiatives on the table. The European Union is a large organisation; it is like a mammoth. He walks very slowly, but once he's raised his leg, he usually puts it down. This could, in my opinion, be one of the priorities of our Presidency. But during the Presidency, we need to cover all the working groups. In many cases, our attitude has also been in the working groups of the European Union that if we do not have direct competence on a matter to say the word, or, figuratively speaking, there is no immediate core interest in oil shale energy, environmental standards, etc., we would rather reduce ourselves to the 'vote' role. If our logic is that the ultima ratio principle should also apply to the European Union's legislation, which means that there is no point in regulating it, there is no point in working out legislation that undermines competitiveness, then that is the message that we should convey in regulating any subject, even if it does not concern our society as an immediate political issue. What is positive is that, when the Juncker Commission was able to take up the mandate from the Member States, one of the main messages from the Member States was that they were sick of this crazy wave of directives coming up. The wave that has come to us now, because the mammoth has raised its foot, is actually the wave of the previous Commission, the drawers have been cleaned. Overall, there has been another pressure in the European Parliament. The European Parliament, too, wants to exercise its power, wants to work with European Union legislation. I think this is definitely where we should encourage this Juncker Commission initiative clearly and unambiguously.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U18	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U19	Good President! Good Minister, thank you for a very pleasant presentation. Indeed, you speak as if you were part of the Free Party Group. But Jüri Raidla could be told an example. We in the Committee on Rural Affairs managed to send a draft back to the Ministry, ignoring the coalition and opposition's game, saying that you are dealing with overregulation, my friends. This is a very positive example. But words and deeds tend to break up. My short-term experience here in Parliament also shows that the laws that come from the government are being pushed through by force, the so-called road roller mechanism is operating, no impact analyses are being carried out, if the law is fast, etc. What is the mechanism that would change the coalition's behaviour?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U20	Thank you. Like I said, we've all been on this train, and we're in one role or another today. This is exactly the same as inclusion. Political decisions are taken either way by majority vote and there are different positions. This game theory is universal in all parliaments. In my opinion, the question is how to achieve a cultural shift. This is an appeal to both the coalition and the opposition, and instinctively it is the role of the opposition to criticise and highlight problems. This is an actual alternative to society. A cultural shift should mean an attitude that would make it psychologically more difficult for the government to deal with these things in a so-called light-handed and quick manner. There are always, as I said, political initiatives, political promises, other issues. But apart from the central political choices, be they some intrinsic fiscal policy or value policy choices, the lion's share of our legislation, as one of the previous speakers pointed out here, comes either from the European Union or from the processing of technological norms that do not actually have a party political or ideological segment. Let's take care of the agenda and see. These things have emerged in Estonia on the basis of the routine administrative activities of a very professional official body, when they perform their duties for which the taxpayer pays their wages. Here, this culture could be established, I think, precisely on the basis of the Commission. The attitude should be such that common sense should prevail. Of course, the game theory of the so-called opposite teams of the opposition and coalition will always come into play in specific cases. The question is that Parliament's legislative stance as a whole should develop. That's my call. As I said, great choices are difficult to determine even at a particular point in time. Since 1992 or at all in the first half of the 1990s, the whole legislative process at supersonic speed was not working to produce as many laws as possible, but were specific things that needed implementation. Looking back, it can be said that it was a very clear systemic and ideological choice. The same was true of the transposition of EU law. Now it is a question of what legitimate justification exists today in such a large-scale legislative process. I would argue that this reasoning is doubtful.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U21	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We are currently dealing with a number of draft laws that require careful processing. I hope that you will also use your influence to influence the coalition so that their other readings are interrupted if the drafts are not mature. It's not often done, and it's a big problem. What is the risk that, if, for example, a great deal of empty work was done in the Ministry you manage, with the development of draft laws, this was your presentation in the patho, then in the future, the work in the room will be transferred to the development and analysis of plans for development? In short, perhaps some of the drafts that are not needed will not be born, but the substitution mechanism will continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U23	Thank you. That is a very correct question, because there is, to a certain extent, a paradoxical or a logic of conflict of interest. As I said, there are absolutely universal bureaucratic interests. It may be hard to tell whether they are bad or not, but they exist, they are social rules similar to the laws of nature. What I meant to say is that let officials rather have it in terms of the value of society, or, let's say, huge energy savings in terms of society's so-called "running" approach to long-term planning, inclusion and impact assessment. The impact of these activities is primarily internal to the administration. The alternative is to rapidly develop regulations that overburden society. Taking this speed off is, in my opinion, a virtue of itself. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U24	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U25	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I was surprised to hear such a speech from the remote when the minister of the ruling coalition told us the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. Indeed, 85% of our work is about amending laws and related laws. There are reasons for this, too, because the law on the prohibition of dislodgement is beneficial to somebody, while officials who could act at the level of lower legislation impose all responsibility on the law. Changing everything that's been going on for 20 years is very difficult. Of course, the opposition must criticise you and there is little interest in changing the situation on the side of the coalition. Are you gonna fight the windmills, or do you think you're gonna find fellows inside the coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U26	Thank you. The question is this: once again, I come back to it, that any specific law that is, say, the core of a political debate can undoubtedly be criticised or justified under these rules. The question I drew attention to, and the thing I would like to achieve is I call for us to consciously, together, try to make this choice, is a cultural shift. As I said, overregulation is in many ways a matter of feeling. It is impossible to say in individual cases that this is, or is not, the case in quantitative terms. This, of course, may and will be attempted, but I am convinced that this is not the right way to move. We must ensure that we have this attitude in Parliament, which will undoubtedly be passed on to the authorities, so that the ultima ratio principle, this presumption of the guilt of the new laws, will work and would be one argument. This autumn was the first legislative conference of all ministries in the country. I consider it important that those legislative officials working in ministries also develop such an identity that they understand the need for an ultima ratio of the legal policy principle that is important for society. Once again, I would like to say that this is not something to blame the officials for. On the contrary, I think that an order should be given if the official explains that he made a six-month development plan and then came to the conclusion that this matter does not need to be regulated. It's not like he did nothing and shame and shame. It's not like that! The attitude should be reversed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U27	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U28	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Mr. Minister! What if the need to amend the law is essentially a fact? The state budget for the following year has planned money which, according to law, could not be there in any way, whether part of the investment component that is taken away from the municipalities or part of the operating support that is taken away from private schools. In essence, you must now begin to bring these laws into line with the state budget. How can such legislation be approved? How will these laws be shaped ex post according to the budget, or how can this legislation be characterised?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U29	Thank you. The topic of private schools is an opera in its own right. What is here, on the basis of legitimate expectations and according to the Constitution, the room for manoeuvre of Parliament is a matter of its own. However, according to my information, the proposed State Budget Act has to be true, the legal contradiction due to the situation arising as a result of the Supreme Court's decision is still to foresee the full cost. If Parliament changes this and finds a solution, it will naturally affect the state budget. This question undoubtedly arises in the same way in a situation that is perfectly natural and good in itself. I mean, the essence of democracy is that governments are changing. We have elections, after the elections, the new coalition has a fresh mandate, and it is implementing its policy very quickly in order to implement the political promises made in society. It's entirely legitimate, there's nothing illogical about it. However, this assessment of the same impacts, including those with legal implications, should be preceded by a draft law. The Ministry of Finance assessed the cost of political party electoral promises before the elections. I think there is a co-ordinated place in the coalition negotiations. In fact, when it comes to assessing this legal burden, I do not know whether it must be the task of the executive authority. This institution may then be given a certain day-to-day bias. But I think the opinion of an independent judicial authority might make sense here. A positive example is that, in a situation where the elections had not yet taken place, the officials read out of the party programmes that most of them had already set up a support fund in one way or another, and they began to prepare it. They did not want to predict the outcome of the election, but realised that the role of officials was to advise and ensure that the legislation was implemented as rationally as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U30	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U31	Thank you to the manager. Good minister! You drew a pretty good parallel in your report that the bill can be compared to the car conveyor, and before the cars get off the conveyor, you should check if they're technically okay. But we know that, years later, the car industry is also calling millions of cars back, which is this so-called "follow-up." It is certainly also right what you said that we in the Riigikogu should pay more attention to this, but I think the executive power has a very important role to play here, because many laws are directed specifically at the executive power. We have heard a little about these problems here: law enforcement, construction law, planning law. In the Ministry of Justice, you have planned for the next few years to analyse the laws that play an important role in what society?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U32	Thank you. Regarding law enforcement law, a good questioner has considered it important and drew attention to its follow - up analysis. It's included in the Justice Department's duties next year. You don't have to be afraid of that, to be honest. The worst part is, as Lennart Meri has said, when an attempt is made to hide the mistake with a new error, and this new mistake usually needs to be bigger so that the old mistake does not appear. I'm sure you'll have to take it in a passionate way. Legislation is human activity, but people are wrong and circumstances are changing. If it has become apparent that the law is invalid, that a rule does not work or that it is ineffective or that it is not fully understood how it should be implemented, then we will change it. It must under no circumstances be considered a disgrace or a problem. As regards law enforcement law, there have been many signals from local authorities, in particular, concerning the practicality of the law. That's the way to look at it, with no passion. If there's anything more sensible to change, we'll change. The Planning Act and the Construction Code are a very serious area where analysis is certainly unavoidable. For example, I must have received a reasoned and well - weighed letter from the Committee on Rural Affairs in the spring. It concerned public roads which are of a public nature but have been privatized. It should be regulated and the public interest better protected. This letter, that the law should be amended, came into force in May, when the new rule, which is expected to solve this problem, had not yet come into force. There was a call from the Committee on Rural Affairs for a change in the law that was due to become different as early as 1 July. My answer was that there must be some time for this impact analysis, too. Can't, let's say, start over a month after the law comes into force, because that thing is still hot. In my opinion, the limit is 18 months, and a year and a half later, we could try to evaluate the more important things.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U33	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U34	Thank you. I'm gonna get right on out of here with my question. As your Minister of Justice, do you consider it perfectly legitimate to have the law passed, but it is impossible to implement it because there are no implementing acts? You're talking about curfewing the law. Doesn't it seem to you that sometimes the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice show excessive chastity in law-making?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U35	If the questioner had given a concrete example, I could have answered. But what I'm saying is that whatever ideological or valuable choices are in the case of a law here, all politicians and political forces have their own attitudes, which are entirely legitimate and express their understanding of man and society, it is important to ensure that the legal clarity that is about to happen is guaranteed. Certainly, the worst situation is a lack of legal clarity, where the legislator gives some hopes or creates an idea in society that some subjective rights are increasing, but ambiguity is emerging. People need to start looking for justice in court and it is highly debatable how this right will be realised in practice. So this kind of regulation, where some legislation is modified by a tactic that makes it like slices of salami sausage, very thin, and then, by slices, they are processed over time, certainly does not increase legal clarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U36	March Sults, I ask you a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U37	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister of the Interior!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U38	You have the Minister of Justice before you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U39	I'm sorry, Minister of Justice! Really, it wasn't malicious. In your administration, a scandal of identity just happened. The constitutional right that a person's identity and personal data should be protected became a very crazy bang because ID-cards were picked up and pretty hard. I have a well-founded fear of how authentic e-elections, e-morbid history and all those things that are not supposed to be consumer goods are.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U40	Thank you. You referred to a public procedure yesterday. In the area of administration of the Police and Border Guard Board, officials as a criminal organisation have dealt with the issue of documents which were not entitled to issue. I wouldn't transfer it to trust in the functioning of society as a whole. It is clear that elections, as well as any acts of public authority, are based on a supposed relationship of trust in normal civil society. People believe that what's happening is legitimate. If suspicion rises beyond the critical limit, leaving aside the way in which it has objectively occurred in certain specific cases, it is certainly a very serious risk. I remember that when a lottery was organized in Mozambique, the main prize of which was perhaps ten million dollars, and the first victory was won by the President of Mozambique, somehow there was a crisis of trust over lottery tickets. As regards the question of whether the e-election technology scheme guarantees a fair outcome and whether society believes that this system is reasonable, despite efforts to discredit it, I believe that this system is trusted in society and has worked in practice. The question is what is the possibility of counterfeiting in a system where people operate. In all systems, the greater the human component, the greater the risks associated with the human factor. It's universal and logical. In e-elections, the human component of the vote has to do with the counting of votes and the like being replaced by a machine that does not, at least technologically, have, say, political preference or is more difficult to motivate with human motives. I would argue that this is a much lower risk of corruption there.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U41	Einar Vallbaum, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U42	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. We all know that it is possible to start a company in Estonia in five minutes, but after that, the laws will kill the business. You can feel it in Estonia. That is why I want strength and strength on behalf of businesses, so that these things can really be made easier.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U43	We're in the middle of a questioning session.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U44	This is, in itself, a very sympathetic rhetorical question, to which it remains to be answered, that in the lion's part this burden is on the government as an institution which in practice is responsible for the technical preparation of the basic part of legislation. The ultima ratio principle can enter into force when Parliament comes along in the legislative plan. Otherwise, my story will remain rhetorical.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U45	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U46	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I, too, congratulate the report you gave, it was extremely reasonable and wise. But I also want to ask. The Cohabitation Act, together with the implementing provisions, should enter into force on 1 January. What is your assessment if these implementing provisions are not adopted, will the Cohabitation Act enter into force?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U47	Thank you. Yes, with social resonance and emotional legislation, a great deal of attention is understandable. I understand these issues with regard to specific legislation, and Mrs Pikhof referred to this issue as well. Paradoxically, society also reacted with fierce feelings to this law. The Service Economy Chamber itself had a very sensible initiative to choose the best and worst law. I've seen that both nominees were the law of cohabitation. As far as this law is concerned, I must admit that it is a unique norm. After all, the law usually states that the law will enter into force and the paragraph will then enter into force on 1 January, 1 July or in general. If there were such a theoretical situation that it was not stated when the law would enter into force, it would enter into force two weeks after disclosure. Indeed, in the case of the Cohabitation Act, in addition to the issue of the interpretation of the 'creator of the norm', it is certainly important that the objective fact is also that the essential entry into force component is what is stated in the same sentence that the law enters into force with the implementing acts. This is an unusual formulation which is not traditionally used in legislation. Whether it's bad or good, it's a question in itself, but it is. It is unacceptable whether subjective rights arise despite the absence of implementing acts, or whether the legislator has imposed a conditio sine qua non (as an absolute condition) that the law will only enter into force if it is applicable. This is where we get back to what the problem is. This is not an implementing act, it is a substantively large part of the law itself. In itself, the right has been enforced by slices in Estonia, if there have been very large codings. The Civil Code is an example here. In fact, the Act on the General Part of the Civil Code was first adopted and moved forward by slices. But the route of transition, the way in which this slice-by-slice movement takes place, was clearly provided for in this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U48	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U49	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Minister, thank you, too, for a very good and meaningful presentation. A previous speaker wondered why you were not a member of the Free Party Group. I must congratulate you on your very good presentation to the Conservative. Thank you. The European Union's topic was already addressed once. A very large part of the work of the Riigikogu is precisely the coordination of directives or laws arising from the European Union. There is now a period in which a great many legislative changes are due to directives that were already introduced in 2007, 2008 or 2009 perhaps very many years ago. It is only now that we have reached the point that we are bringing our laws into line with European Union law. Do you have an overview of how many other directives exist or legal provisions under European Union law that we have not been able to reconcile with Estonian law? What's the volume, where's the work done?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U50	Thank you. It is regularly monitored by the government with higher or less intensity. This mechanism is designed with a certain margin of discretion in such a way that the Directorates, whose competence falls within the competence of European Union law, pressurize and send letters. If there is no action to be taken, there will be an infringement procedure, which could result in a fine being imposed before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Fines are imposed on a daily basis and can amount to millions of euros. As a routine mechanism of its own, the government is monitoring all of this. In my opinion, the number of legislations for which we are lagging behind is rather a two-digit figure. I'm not gonna say it this way. It is also clear that the intensity with which this coordination is required varies depending on certain preferences that are considered more important and less important. The second thing is that Estonia also makes objective objections as to why it has not made coordination. If we are part of the European Union, we have a duty to take over this right. However, if the reasoning is of objective weight, it also allows the procedure to be of a slower nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U51	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U52	Mr. President! Minister, thank you for your presentation, it was meaningful. My question is about the linguistic side of the law. What has been done or is being done to improve the linguistic side of the laws so that they are, how can they be said, easier to understand, more precise, and the explanatory notes do not confuse things, as often happens?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U53	Thank you. One thing is the linguistic clarity of laws as a purpose, since the law can have very dangerous consequences if it is misspelled. The most important thing with regard to legal language is clarity, which Mr Adams emphasised yesterday on one issue. If the terms are interpreted in various ways and there is a risk of misinterpretation, then the law is a failure. The second problem, I suppose, is that your problem-setting expressed it, is how much the law makes sense at all. If we take any of Parliament's pending drafts out of the closet today, it will not always be possible to identify what will happen and what legal relations will change in society. It's far from clear from the title. I have talked about this several times myself and set it as a goal in the legislative plan to reduce the volume of legislation. After all, the law-making house is more or less ready to change the law. If you dismantle the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Penal Code or some sort of longer codification law in the State's Official Journal, it will be followed by dozens and dozens of laws amending the law, paragraph it, paragraph that, so it is impossible to actually identify what was amended by law and what was motivated. This problem has been dealt with differently by different countries. In some countries, if there is a short novel law, the title states what purpose it is for. In fact, there may be, I don't know, an amendment to the Social Security Act, but its title includes, for example, the granting of a grant to a single pensioner, a specific legal relationship or the clarification of the recognition of paternity, not a specific provision of family law. Another option is to approach the law in a preamble describing the incident in a short form. I think that if the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs are prepared to do a 'public hearing', these developments could be seriously discussed. The third question is that well, the law has been passed, it is in the so-called applicable mother tongue, but how can this law be understood, how can it be understood by the ordinary person affected by it? This is, in my opinion, a very serious problem in Estonian society. We produce two types of laws. Some are internal to the administration, they do not affect the normal person, they are not read by ordinary people, they do not have much meaning. Others, however, are the ones that have an impact. For example, the Planning Act and the Construction Act were mentioned here, but it could also be another law whose "customer" or "subject" is the whole of society. I think that their clarification is a very serious problem that we want to fundamentally change at the Ministry of Justice next year with a letter of rights. You see, those people who are least informed or least able to understand the text of the law and defend their interests actually need the most protection of the law in a very large number of cases. For example, Germany is starting to create separate texts for people with special spiritual needs, let's say. This is specifically linked to guaranteeing these rights. It is a very specific group of people, it is a large number of people in absolute terms. How do these people know about their rights? One thing is the text of the law, but the other is how to explain in a simple way what legal relationships this law regulates and what rights people have. Therefore, it seems to me that the explanatory memorandum to the draft law also contains a 'professional trap'. They are so voluminous and so technological that this simple point can disappear between the lines.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U54	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I also thank you for your strong presentation. But I want to ask you that the Government of the Republic is presenting a very large part of the bill. How did your colleagues respond to your proposals today?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U56	Thank you. In the government, we discussed in the summer this general attitude regarding the implementation of the ultima ratio principle and, in large part, the principles of a legislative reduction plan. Government members supported these principles. There was a fundamental question in which, for obvious reasons, the cabinet felt that this would be too much of a step. My assumption was that all drafts must have an intention to develop. Since it is also stated in the existing rules, the members of the government naturally accepted it. But my second step forward was that the plan for the development of all the drafts should also be discussed separately by the government, because the most important, most important ideological or, let's say, the instrument for changing society, which is in the hands of the government, apart from the distribution of the budget, is to make new rules and proposals. There was discussion about this and this proposal was not supported. But that means the greater the weight of my responsibility in the final phase, in the second phase, as co-ordinator of all draft laws. As I said, I intend to take the view that I cannot coordinate draft legislation that has not been the subject of a plan of development, except in exceptional circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U57	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U58	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Continuing on the question of Mr Lutsep, I would like to ask how the cooperation between lawyers and language specialists is taking place today. The status of the Institute of the Estonian Language has been the subject of public attention several times this autumn, whether or not it should continue as a separate institution. Are ministries, including the Ministry of Justice, manned with language specialists?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U59	This is a separate profession from a lawyer-linguist. Of course, the Ministry of Justice is reviewing the draft, the Government's drafts are also controlled by the State Chancellery. The Ministry of Justice will, in the second phase, review the texts of the draft laws of the other ministries on the so-called language purity, which concerns the wording of accuracy. There is a legal language board and legal terminology being dealt with. Of course, when we talk about the fact that a very important specialized language affecting society should not become any unnatural artificial language, I think there is a problem. The next phase is when the language doesn't come into contact with the real life and its sphere of influence shrinks. That is a very serious question. A living language must be able to develop. This is certainly a question which, I hope, we also consider important, with the help of the Institute of the Estonian Language, in order to value and develop the language. The language is a natural phenomenon, it is the starting point. Inventing technical new words has, in my opinion, become sometimes discrediting the language; it can turn into a glass pearl game. In essence, we attribute to a word that has never existed before some meaning and imagine that it will live and thus develop a language. I'm not quite sure this mechanical approach is right.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U60	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U61	Thank you. Mr. Minister for Justice. It is very nice that the Minister and the Ministry have set themselves the goal of updating developments in legal policy. But my question to you, Mr Minister, is this: should anything change in the future and do we expect a change in the quality of judgments? We have often seen that a court of first and second instance condemns a person, but the Supreme Court acquiesces him. I want to hear your comment on the quality of our judges' work.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U62	Thank you. The number of such cases, say, between courts of first and second instance, is greater than between circuit courts and the Supreme Court. The law itself, the protection of interests and the expression of interests, when it takes place in court proceedings, is based on legal arguments drawn up by people. These principles may conflict, they compete with each other, and the judges make their decision at their best discretion. They also have to assess the evidence as people and make a decision on its surface. The fact that positions at one level or another may differ in this system is not a problem but a prerequisite for the functioning of that system. If the opposite were the case, the three-step approach would lose purpose. I would like to say that the mechanical three-step process in Estonia is quite unique in itself. This is not the way it is used in most European countries. I think there are compelling reasons which we are currently analysing in the Ministry of Justice and which have also been pointed out by the President of the Supreme Court, why, in certain cases, even in more complex cases, could make the system two-step. In other words, the substantive assessment and processing of the evidence would take place in a circuit court where three circuit judges would discuss it collegially. This would also ensure a reduction in the difference between the positions of the courts of first and second instance, especially in situations where there are very important matters in the proceedings. When we talk about 'quantitative numbers' in Estonian justice, I think the overall direction is the right one. What is the role of the court? The role of the Court is to resolve disputes in society and the role of the Court is to protect public peace in society by imposing an adequate punishment for crimes. One important critical point in earlier times has been the fluctuations in procedural times across the country. Secondly, the proceedings have been too long. We see a clear direction that proceedings will be shortened quickly. Now the question of quality is whether the judgments are of high quality. I think that here too, the direction has been positive and for a very simple reason. The reform was comprehensive, the judges were assisted by Advocates Generals. The judges now have consultants to help them prepare the decision and process the materials. Technical work has been reduced significantly from the judge so that he can deal with what he has to deal with: he has to think about the problem and make the decision as such. I also want to implement this system of consultants in the prosecutor's office so that there are also consultants who would reduce the burden on prosecutors.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U63	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Over the last few years, we have been able to read news from old democracies and from countries with long parliamentary experience, that lawyers are being trained too much and that their number has grown too high compared to the population. To what extent can this view be linked to today's topic and to Estonia? To what extent is lawmaking really an inspiring creative activity? If my question goes a little far from this issue, don't mind, but maybe it is possible to comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U64	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U65	I believe that the element of creativity, i.e. freedom, is not a problem, but rather a virtue in terms of the predictability of the system, is what time goes on, the more shrinking. The most free people in this room were the last time Andres Ammas was here and was the last Supreme Council. There were no constitutional or constitutional boundaries then, nor were there any borders arising from the membership of the European Court of Human Rights. There were only general understandings and political beliefs that competed with each other here. The next phase worked on the basis of the existing constitution, when there was a very insane creative element in the creation of the national legal order, let's say which system to choose and how to shape it. Those teams that worked under Mr Adams, among other things, actually had enormous autonomy. From there on, of course, creativity has been replaced in a very large way, let's say, with technology. Ideological, political choices about a single issue are made in the course of a political debate, but there are very rigid limits to formalising it. That's a fact. When it comes to the number of lawyers and their overproduction, it must be said that the general logic of a person's rational behaviour is that he is going to pursue an education and profession in a field that he is interested in, but also in an area where he hopes to earn a decent living. These links to education are universal in all societies, and in the case of lawyers, they do exactly the same. I think it's complicated to have a mechanical siege here. However, in terms of the quality of legal education, I see very serious problems. The problem of legal education was somewhat different on the table in the 1990s. The question then was that if there was an inevitable exchange of a legal paradigm, the faculty had to bear the spirit of a new, national, legal paradigm in their research and teaching activities. Now, of course, there is no question, the paradigm of national law has been taken over. The problem is the difference in income levels, which is in different areas of life for professors of law at the University of Tartu. The senior professors of law school are retiring. Younger people who do faculty work are all doing some kind of "good-for-nothing" side business. However, a professor of law at the University of Tartu should be the most professional person in his field in academic terms or at least an opinion leader and a "competent centre." On this basis, it should also be recognised and motivated. At present, even ordinary judges' salaries are significantly below those of professors. I see there's bound to be a problem. One could say that it is not my business as a minister, it is a question of education, but I see that it has not a short-term but a long-term impact on the quality of lawyers. By the way, these connections are different. In Finland, for example, there are fewer per capita lawyers than we do, but in Moldova, which in itself is comparable to our population, there are 3,000 lawyers if we have less than 1000 lawyers on paper. So sometimes the relationship is not that the more prosperous a society, the more lawyers who settle disputes, but the relationship can also be inversely proportional.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U66	Minister, thank you for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Toomas Vitsuti, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U67	Can I ask for more time right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U68	Yes, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U69	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, introduced 'The Developments of Legal Policy until 2018', which was adopted by the XI Riigikogu on 23 February 2011, is one of the most important documents for shaping Estonian legal policy. One of the key points of the legislative policy developments is that every new piece of legislation must be thoroughly prepared and stable so that it does not need to be transformed in the near future. The biggest problem with the current legislation is, in my opinion, constant legislative changes. There isn't even a case-law on the ground of the law when the law changes. One possible reason may be the fact that laws regulate what they should not regulate at all. In essence, Estonia is currently in a situation where everything is considered so important that it can only be regulated at the level of the law. Rapid changes in laws are detrimental to the stability of the whole legal system, also causing ambiguity among those implementing the law, which is yet to speak of citizens who cannot keep up with the pace of amending the law. Therefore, legislation cannot be project-based, but must focus on solving real problems. Before we start creating a new law, we should look at whether we can still change the existing law so that it works, because the new law may not always be better than the old one. One of the objectives of legal policy is to improve the public's legal awareness. The Estonian legal system can only be effective if citizens understand the functioning of this system and are able to use it. However, the legal order should also be made understandable to those who live in Estonia, but whose native language is, for example, Russian. They should also be given access to legal aid and the possibility of defending their rights in court. Therefore, the situation needs to be regulated even in such a way as to make it easier for people who speak Russian as their native language to submit it in Estonian. The transposition of European Union law is extremely important and must be continued, but the aim of bringing Estonian law into line with the requirements of the European Union is, in any case, fragmenting our legal order. It is therefore necessary to avoid over-regulation of national law with requirements under European Union law. The quality of legislation can be improved by exploring legal solutions and experiences in other countries. This does not mean that the legislation of other countries should be transposed as it is in a particular country, but should be brought into line with Estonian law in a situation where it offers a possible solution. For example, when § 156 (2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia was amended and the right to vote in the Local Government Council Election Act was reduced from 18 to 16 years of age, the recital in the explanatory memorandum highlighted countries where the same regulation applies. These countries were Austria and Malta. Practice, which is fully pursued in only two of the 28 Member States, cannot necessarily be a justification for amending the Constitution. This practice does not necessarily fit into Estonia's legal space either. A member of the Riigikogu, a political group, the Commission and the Government of the Republic have the right to initiate a draft law. At the same time, most of the work of the Riigikogu is made up of drafts initiated by the Government of the Republic. It is essential that the political groups and members of the Riigikogu contribute to their proceedings by submitting amendments. If the draft law is long, as is the current draft law amending the law on the grant of international protection to an alien and other laws in connection with it, then ten days are clearly insufficient to allow political groups and members of the Riigikogu to contribute to the drafting of the draft text. A good tone cannot be considered either of the cluster drafts issued in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, for which we have a vivid example s. a On May 25th, when the Government of the Republic gave the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws amending the seven laws. On the one hand, it was unclear why the government decided to merge these drafts into a cluster bill and thus submit them to the Riigikogu proceedings. On the other hand, the deadline for submitting amendments was three days after the first reading of the draft. This is clearly too short a time. The process of processing the draft bill is subject to the compulsory election of a member of the Riigikogu, as the MP must vote in favour of the draft even if he actually supports only one part of the draft. The position of the Estonian Centre Party Group is that the volume of legislation must be reduced, just as the Minister expressed in his position today, and that alternative options should be found instead of regulating the legal order by creating new laws. The quality of legislation must also be improved so that people have confidence in the state and confidence in the laws in force. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U70	Thank you. I ask Raivo Aegi, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U71	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that we all realise that today we are dealing with a very important problem in our society, how we regulate life in Estonia through legislation. At the same time, as the Minister of Justice pointed out in his report, we are very eager to reform and constantly amend the existing legal space. If, during the three sessions, 386 of Law 320 were amended, this is indeed a very high percentage. Inevitably, the question arises as to whether all this was really necessary. The need for change, on the one hand, may be caused by the willingness of the administration to show its competence in some way and to find activity in which the agency is often accused, but there is still much more that life itself forces to make changes to the law. This is largely because we have essentially over-regulated the laws of life. All the details are tried to be written into the law, because then the matter is certain, it will be enforceable and traceable. Is that reasonable? This is a very important issue which must always be taken into account when preparing legislation. The question must be asked whether it is reasonable to regulate one thing or another by law, or whether any detail could be regulated by other legislation, such as the law of the government or the law of the Minister for Industry. As has been said here, good regulation and regulation came into force in 2012, with broadly three main components: design planning, impact analysis and ex-post impact assessment. If you try to prioritise them in any way, perhaps this first component, the intention to develop, will create a foundation or a foundation in the drafting of the law, will set out the purpose. Looking at the statistical picture, it's just sadness. While 19% of the draft proposals had been drawn up in 2014, in 2015 they were only 9%, with October already in place. We have to work hard to achieve at least last year's level, not us, but the creator or developer of the law. We certainly cannot be satisfied with this statistical figure in any way. What are the main objectives of the planned development? Open the draft law that is being drafted to the wider debate and involve the various parties: those who have to implement the law, those who are developing the bill, those who have to enforce the law, as well as the target group for which the law is intended. In this way, it can be ensured that the law is understandable, enforceable, also legally competent, in order to avoid conflicts between different laws (often the new law has sometimes conflicted with the laws in force), the law would be appropriate and indeed designed to solve the problem. For example, I am talking about the comprehension of the law to the target group. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U72	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U73	Recently, we all participated in the election campaign. When they met people of pensionable age, they found that they were completely incomprehensible for the calculation of their pension, such as the comparison between years of employment and years of pension accounting. This caused frustration and misunderstanding among people, sometimes with hatred for the legislator and for the legislator. We are saying that there are urgent and less urgent drafts that need to be drawn up. We are taking up a new version of the alcohol law, even recently under discussion, and the development of amendments to it. Does the fact that the amendment of this law is in the government's agenda make this draft reasonably urgent or not? Here's the question. However, there are indeed examples of very urgent draft laws. We have only recently debated very much and thoroughly about the African swine fever and talked about the need to amend certain laws, in particular the hunting law, in order to alleviate the situation. There are indeed very different situations and they also require a very different solution. An important and specific issue is the transposition of European law. There are also completely different situations: whether this is a directly applicable norm, or whether we can implant it in our legal space. If we have the opportunity to deal with this problem, we must do so, and we must also avoid that, with certain standards, we exceed the minimum that European Union law has proposed. This, too, has often been the case that we impose stricter conditions on ourselves than we are actually expected. After all, normal procedural deadlines and compliance with the rules of good regulation and regulation are, in many respects, an important additional positive factor in planning our own activities. If we observe and observe these requirements in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, we will certainly have more time and resources in the future to deal with the more important issues of state life that will help to move the country forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U74	Thank you. I ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, Heljo Pikhof, to speak at the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U75	Good fellows! There is no doubt that the development plan is one of the key documents behind the coalition agreement when it comes to legal policy. It defines that the legislative process must be predictable and open. Compliance with the development plan must also ensure the quality of legislation and certainly ensure that possible alternatives to legal solutions are reviewed. Similarly, the need to involve stakeholders is no less important. The overall quality of legislation needs to be significantly improved. In developing draft laws, the Government of the Republic has the advantage of an existing apparatus, or human power. It should be used actively at government level and should contribute to the development of a plan for the development of as many initiatives as possible, which could then be negotiated with the parties. Unfortunately, the Riigikogu does not have this administrative capacity. We expect a greater contribution to be made to the ex-post evaluation in the future. The aim must not be to splinter with laws whose effects cannot be viewed afterwards. After all, the boat is not built to see it sink, but to fulfill its purpose on the sea. The same is true for legislation. We certainly need to see whether the proposed regulation will actually work and whether people will benefit from it. At the same time, the idea of the Minister of Justice to design legislation entirely on the basis of ultima ratio cannot be accepted. Although it is inherent in penal law that legislation is used only as a last resort, it certainly does not fit in with the general idea that, in order to protect a person and ensure social security, the legislator has a duty to create effective and appropriate laws. Legislative solutions cannot be seen as extreme or inevitable, but are, to a significant extent, solutions based on the conscience of each member of the Riigikogu to solve societal problems. Care should also be taken to reduce legislation, but the idea that legislation should not be fragmented and should be well thought out can be fully supported. It could also be seen whether it is possible to manage legislation more effectively within the remit of different ministers. For our part, we expect that reducing legislation alone would not be a goal, but a goal would be legislation that takes account of Estonian society and is not burdensome. The issue of transparent and inclusive legislation should also be discussed by the Riigikogu's own kitchen side. The new Riigikogu has already discussed collective appeals on several occasions. Unfortunately, such appeals have been partly motivated by the interests of some parties. The political parties represented in the Riigikogu should leave room for such appeals that come from outside these walls here. After all, the parties represented in the Riigikogu have the opportunity to discuss and initiate all kinds of things here, while we need to leave room for the thoughts and initiatives that come from outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U76	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U77	Let's say hi to him!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U78	Thank you. Please ask Jüri Adams, representative of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, to the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U79	I'm asking for more time to start right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U80	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U81	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Speaking metaphorically, we heard from the minister a description of the symptoms of the disease, attempts to formulate a diagnosis and to propose some medications. I do not agree with everything the Minister has proposed, and I will try to express my views on what I believe was lacking in his presentation. If we go ahead with the comparison, I say this: if what we are dealing with is a disease, then it should probably be classified as an occupational disease. However, treatments for occupational diseases are generally different from those for other types of diseases. The Minister titled his presentation 'Towards the Developments of Legal Policy'. I think that the title was a little too pretentious because, in fact, it only spoke about one area of legal policy, namely legislation, and not even about legislation at large, but about legislation. At the end of my speech, I come back to other possible aspects of legal policy. However, first of all, from the point of view of legislation, it is very important to look at where we come from and how we have come into the current situation. Just as every person is involved in who his parents are and where he went to school and grew up, we are similarly involved in certain circumstances. You see, the state of independence we entered in 1991 or 1992 was unique in the world. No other country or nation has ever had to go through such a thing, and God would give it so that it would never come. We had to create our own new standards in place of Soviet law and practical standards. The reason was that the Soviet occupation had destroyed all of our earlier national legal traditions. Even our southern neighbours, Latvians, were happier than us, because they were able to enforce again some pre-war laws, such as their constitution and civil code. But we didn't have that chance. Apart from the two or three sections of the Citizenship Act, we did not have any pre-war texts that we could have adopted. I have sometimes described this situation in the sense that this task, which was in front of the Estonian state and the people, was something like this if a professional repair shop were tasked with repairing the car, taking into account two conditions: firstly, at the end of the repair, all the old parts of the car must be replaced by new parts; secondly, in the course of repairs, the car must not stand for a moment, but must continue to drive at least 60 kilometres per hour. In principle, the Estonian people did this task and I was able to say it from the same remote control, I think it was 2001 or 2002, when the Law of Obligations Act was passed, that now the last major legislative gap has been filled, and that a convoy of draft laws could be put to a halt. I'm afraid that didn't work. This process had just been put on full speed in the ministries, and then another and worse phenomenon came to the end. This was the incorporation of the Euro Directives into our laws after we became a member of the European Union. These two things are now cumulative and we are in a situation where there is a little too much of it. Legislation can be classified in three parts. The vast majority of the directives, in terms of volume, but not in terms of numbers, are incorporated into the Euro Directives. This Riigikogu has already passed the Act on Insurance Activities. Today we voted on the chemicals law under the Euro Directive. In the proceedings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for example, there are currently three large-scale drafts, the only reason for which was the Euro Directives. I boldly claim that more than half of the laws adopted in the Riigikogu during the year relate to the Euro Directives. I have no clear solution for what can be done here. Today, for example, the Free Party Group has dealt with a narrow issue. Indeed, with the introduction of the euro law, we were also given a chapelmat for local business. My groupmate Andres Ammas, for example, has tried to create the possibility of allowing local insurance activities banned by law in the course of the implementation of the Euro Directive once again. At least he hasn't been able to do that in the meantime. The second question is that a number of laws are being codified in each country. A good example of this is the General Part of the Social Code Act discussed yesterday. Codification is made from time to time, there are no more than two such things in Estonia a year. This job isn't very voluminous, I think it's a perfectly normal pace. The question is, where do the rest of them come from, more than 300 legislative changes that we are resented for here? I would argue that their classification is such that it is an exact finishing of existing laws, which is inevitable. The point is that for various reasons in Estonia we introduced laws in such a form that they consist of one relatively small part where we say what the law is seeking and another, longer part where they say how it is being done. The first part shall not constitute more than a quarter of the volume of the laws. These 300 and more corrections will be made in this second part of "how." Theoretically, all implementation issues can be pushed to the level of officials' decisions and ministries' regulations. This way we can overcome this problem of correction. But first, we don't know how to do it, and second, we don't even know if we want to do it. Now I'm going to go to justice. You see, the majority of the law, 99,99% is the part of the law that we call positive law, according to the words of a German theorist, these are texts of law. In addition to this, there are at least two other types of law: one is the ordinary law that we hardly have after Soviet time, and then there is the right of the precedents. If we want to diversify justice policy, we should strengthen them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U82	Thank you. Please ask Martin Helme, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U83	Mr. Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, The presentation by the Minister of Justice was interesting and meaningful. With two hands you can be in favour of the thinking that was reflected in this presentation. Indeed, in the Conservative People's Party platform too, deregulation and the transformation of the legislative environment into a way that does not hinder business or harass citizens are very important. Unfortunately, we have to admit that it has also run through questions, that at least the practice of the current government is in contrast to the objectives declared by the Ministry of Justice. It was only in the spring that we dealt with the cluster drafts here, and now we must urgently and overstep the process of raising state fees, while financing private schools, in order to balance the state budget that will be in force for the new year. This is certainly not in line with the objectives set or declared by Urmas Reinsalu. The problem is also that in Estonia, no one really appreciates whether the new law creates more complicated conditions for business, takes money out of the pockets of people and companies and creates more work for officials or municipalities. Yes, formally, these analyses are available in the explanatory notes of the law, but in fact they are very superficial, often they do not fit into life at all. So if you want anything, I want the Minister of Justice to be able to instill his way of thinking in the entire government. I think Parliament would certainly be willing to go along with this, because, at least in my short experience, there is no need for people in this Parliament, nor the temptation to constantly engage in the monkey business, or to prove our necessity, that we are making laws. I think that Parliament could use much more debate and much less law-making. However, in the light of all the things that Urmas Reinsalu talked about, the most tragic thing is that with the attitude that we have had in Estonia for the last 15 years, no change is possible. We know that in Estonia we are proud that we are Brussels's exemplary good boys. I will give a simple example from a few weeks ago when we talked about amendments to the law on granting international protection to an alien, where the term 'territory control unit' instead of 'Estonian Government' from the directive was simply insensitively written. We know why it was in the directive, but why was it in the Estonian law? Because one of the directives was simply written off to one. This crack is constantly being produced. This is exactly an example of the 'excellent effort' to transpose the euro regulation. I come back once again to what I have already mentioned in my question to the Minister, that in another country there has been a record of how much legislation begins in Brussels and how much in national parliaments. Brussels accounts for more than 80% everywhere. We're gonna experience it here. Let us look at this week's agenda: far more than half of the items on the agenda are related to the enforcement of one directive or another. This means that when we say that we should make fewer laws or better evaluate their impact, we should actually act like Hungary or the way that the new Polish national-conservative government has promised to act, perhaps we should ignore the stupidities that come from Brussels with a rather cold stomach, or we should act like Italy, which has paid the fine for years for not complying with the milk quota, because it was more beneficial for Italy and its producers. Perhaps we should act as a sovereign, self-respecting state and as a parliament who knows who his boss is, the Estonian people, the Estonian electorate, not Brussels, the Commission or the European Parliament. With this call to act as a sovereign state and as a sovereign parliament, I appeal to both the government and to you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U84	Kalle Laane on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U86	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U87	Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! With regard to the Minister of Justice's presentation today, I would like to address some of the issues relating to the quality of our legislation. In the introductory part of the 2012 executive edition of the Constitution, the following position is expressed: 'The legitimisation by means of legal provisions must be characterised by their validity. The problem is that the legal validity of a constitutional rule does not guarantee its validity in social terms. In other words, the legitimacy of the rules and their social validity have always been two things themselves. Modern legitimization is a communicative rationality in the final stage. There can be a right in society as much as the subjects of law show it through their conduct in the final stage. In order for legal efforts to bear fruit, the requirements of current law must be realised in the conduct of the subjects of law. [---] The law embraces all that is related to the legally relevant part of human behaviour. It is therefore necessary to see and recognise this normative correlation that exists between law and society in order to feel the right. [---] The law needs real communication to function. ' I agree with this approach and believe that legislation will not end with the adoption of the law or its date of entry into force. In order for the rules to be complied with, it is necessary to bring the rules in force to the addressees who apply them. It is necessary for the rules in force to be comprehensible to the addressees and appropriate, necessary and moderate in order to achieve the objectives set by the legislator. These issues relate to the quality of legislation. Today's presentation by the Minister of Justice focused on the implementation of the code of good lawmaking and regulation adopted by the Government in 2012. The aim of this rule, or HÕNTE, is to improve the quality of Estonian legislation by analysing the effects of legislation. Today, when social relations are constantly changing, the existing law changes with them. Regulation is constantly being introduced, and the number of regulations is therefore tending to expand and the legal order is becoming increasingly complex. If nothing is done about it, we may at some point find it difficult to apply the rules in force. I remember that already several years ago, on the days of Estonian legal scientists for the 31st time in autumn 2010, the topics of better regulation were discussed in depth. Then there was the question of whether it was always necessary to amend the law to solve the problems encountered in society, or whether these issues could sometimes be resolved by sub-acts. The debates were also about improving the quality of legislation and the ex-post evaluation of the laws in force. Now, fortunately, we are already moving on this path that, before the draft legislation is drawn up, it is necessary to draw up a plan of development which assesses whether a change of law is necessary to resolve a particular issue, or whether the objective set can be achieved in some other way. It is a pleasure if, at times, the analysis leads to the conclusion that there is no need to amend the law. In the case of some particularly important drafts, HAPPINESS provides for the possibility of further drawing up a concept reflecting the legal choices of the draft and, in the case of laws that have entered into force, an ex-post evaluation report to assess the impact of the regulation. I believe that these measures will help to improve the quality of legislation. Yes, we certainly want the implementation of these new practices to take place more quickly than came out of today's report by the Minister of Justice. It may take time, however, to achieve a high quality result. I like that we are still moving in the right direction. Urmas Reinsalu also discussed the fact that there are cases of too short a period between the adoption and entry into force of the law and too little time for the Riigikogu to process the drafts. I agree with the Minister of Justice here. From my own experience, I can add that the drafts submitted and discussed during the closing date of the mandate of the Riigikogu and the active election campaign, unfortunately, receive much less attention from the members of the Riigikogu than the drafts that are discussed before the election campaign begins. This is also understandable, as most members of the Riigikogu scurry around their own electoral area during the election campaign, if possible. This could be taken into account by ministries when drafting drafts, otherwise the quality of our legislation could be compromised. I am pleased to note that Estonia received a higher than average mark from the OECD for the introduction of the system of ex-ante evaluation and inclusion of the effects of the drafts. This shows once again that our legislative direction is right. I would add that we could also look more closely at the area of justice of neighbouring countries that affect us and, if possible, we could try to harmonise them in cooperation. That, of course, cannot be an end in itself. Finally, I support, on two sides, the Minister of Justice's idea of applying the more ultima ratio principle in our judicial area. In legislation, the emphasis on how to regulate could move on whether there is a need to regulate at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U88	Thank you. All the groups have exercised their right to negotiate and the debate on the item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U89	The second reading of the Act on the Election of a Local Government Council initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the related amendment of the law 42 begins. The rapporteur is Andre Sepp, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U90	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you, at second reading, draft law 42. As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I will give an overview of the procedure that took place in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In the committee, the second reading of the draft law amending the Local Government Council Election Act and related laws was held on Monday, 19 October. It should be noted that one amendment tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group was received by the Commission by the deadline. The Constitutional Commission asked the Estonian Judicial Association for an opinion on the draft; they submitted their opinion on 14 October. The Commission also had the opinion of the Association of Estonian Rural Governments and the Association of Estonian Cities. In total, the Commission dealt with six amendments, one of which had been submitted by the Centre Party and five had been submitted by the Commission. They were motivated by a letter from the Association of Judges to us and the comments made by Jüri Adams in the Riigikogu on 29 September in the first reading of the draft. In a very brief way, I will give an overview of the amendments. Amendment 1 came from the Estonian Central Party Group. It provided for the deletion of § 1 (2) from the draft, according to which every Estonian citizen with a right to stand as a candidate and a citizen of the European Union who has reached the age of 18 on the last day of registration and whose permanent residence is no later than 1 August of the election year in the respective city or municipality. The aim of the Estonian Centre Party was to harmonise the right to stand as a candidate with the limit of the selection age. The proposer's representative commented that persons aged 16 and 17 should also be given the right to stand as candidates, not just to choose. When the members of the committee were interested in whether the proposers relied on an opinion or a study, it was announced that the arguments were the same as those on which the draft Constitutional Amendment Act was based. The Commission decided not to take this proposal into account, as the proposal was supported by 3 members of the Commission, with 6 votes against and no abstentions. Amendments 2 to 6 have come from the Estonian Association of Judges and are mainly motivated by the need to clarify and regulate the wording. As was said on the previous item, the wording of the law should be more uniform, clear and understandable. Amendment 2 provides for the replacement of the words "unable to exercise the right of choice' in § 1 (3) supplementing the Local Government Council Election Act with § 301. The Commission decided to support this: there were 5 Commission members in favour, with 3 abstentions, and no one opposed it. Amendment 3 provides for the same amendment to the Population Register Act. The Commission decided to support this proposal, with three abstentions in this vote. Amendment 4 also provides, in the same way, that in the Population Register Act, the words 'unable to exercise the right of choice' should be replaced by 'unable to exercise the right of choice'. Amendment 5, which amends the Code of Civil Procedure, is the same. It also harmonises terminology. The Commission has decided to support both proposals 5 and 6. Three members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also abstained in these debates. In addition, the Commission proposed to supplement the explanatory memorandum to the 42 draft law, namely on the costs that this legislative amendment could entail. We received data from both the Social Insurance Board and the Ministry of the Interior, where we found out how many citizens could be, who are 16 to 17 years old and whose rights should be restricted. It can be estimated that there are 270. We have also been given specific calculations of the costs involved, both in courts and in forensics. The amount to be taken into account is EUR 239288. The members of the Commission considered that these calculations could be reflected in the explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft. In addition, the members of the Commission wondered whether the incapacitated persons aged 16 to 17 were together in a nursing home, whether they had been registered there and could therefore choose. The Head of the Elections Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu explained that persons in nursing homes are usually not registered with the address of the nursing home. One member of the Commission pointed out that he maintained the position already expressed in the first reading of the draft, that the declaration of incapacity for the right to vote of a minor should not go to court. We discussed this in the Commission. Indeed, this increases the burden on the courts, while § 57 of the Constitution clearly states that the right to vote is not a citizen of the Republic of Estonia whose court has declared incapacitated. So here one Member of the Commission disagreed. The Commission's proposals were as follows: to send the draft to plenary by 29 October, to close the second reading and, when the second reading is completed, to send the draft to third reading and to put the draft to the final vote. All these proposals were made in a consensual manner. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U91	Thanks to the waitress! There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U92	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, I am talking about Amendment 1, which was made by the Estonian Central Party Group on draft law 42. As the Commission rapporteur said, our proposal is that, when we changed the Constitution and gave the right to vote to the 16- to 17-year-olds, we could trust them so much that we allow them to stand as well and allow them, once they have received sufficient support in the elections, to stand at the council table. I would say that the vote on Amendment 1, which the Central Party Group is asking to do in this Chamber, is, in a sense, a test that trusts young people and does not trust them from the MPs and political groups here. It is also a test in the sense that it shows who really wants to listen to the opinions of young people and allow them to stand as candidates, also at the council table and to participate in politics. The casters of the election age, or those who went along with it and voted in favour of each reduction, had basically three arguments. Firstly, more young people can be involved in policy-making. The granting of the right to apply, the future membership of the council and the right to decide there will certainly help to involve more young people in policy-making. The second argument was to increase turnout. Young people's right to apply also increases turnout, because young people will then have the opportunity to choose their own age and they would rather come to the ballot boxes. The third objective of the elections was to highlight the issues that were important to young people at local level, so that young people would remain in the country so that they would remain in Estonia. Once again, it can be said that the possibility of running and belonging to the local council will contribute to this objective. These were the three arguments put forward by the constitutional changers. Our proposal to allow 16 to 17-year-olds to apply after election also contributes to these goals. We see no reason why we should be afraid to allow 16 to 17-year-olds to stand as candidates for election. The Centre Party Group calls on all political forces and all 101 parliamentarians in this Chamber to support Amendment 1 in order to allow young people to go to the council table as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U93	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U94	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The content of this bill is, I say, softly, defective or rotten. It's hard to explain why. I'm trying to explain this to you through a comparison. I once, in my youth, heard mathematicians ironize, which is the most important flaws in their specialty. This story claimed that if a mathematician has a teapot, tap water, gas stove and matches in front of a mathematician, and the task is to get boiling tea water, then the mathematician quite rightly answers that the pitcher must be filled with water, set the gas on fire, then put the pitcher on the gas light and wait until the water boils. It's okay. But if after that the mathematician is given a second task that water is already in the pot and the light on the gas stove is on fire, but how to get hot tea water, then the mathematician answers that it is very simple: turn off the gas and pour the water out of the pot. So the solution to this problem goes back to the solution to the previous problem, the solution of which is already known to us. A similar thing is proposed here. In fact, instead of solving this issue as simple a way as possible, it is considered that at least 400 young mentally underdeveloped documents need to be carried out in Estonia, so that judges can decide on them in separate sessions. It was supposed to be worth about half a million euros. That is the opinion of the'majority' and you are obviously adopting this law here, but I do not think that this is good governance practice. I will talk about two other aspects. This law uses the expression 'unable to exercise the right of choice'. This is an example of how difficult it is to correct any linguistic or legal errors afterwards. I don't know who put together this brilliant triple expression, but I do know that 'inability to perform' is a concept of private law that doesn't have any meaning in public law, and 'unable to choose' is just as intelligent a sentence as 'blue for the right to vote'. Basically, you could say that, but what's the point? There's still the right answer 'unrighteous' here, but there's been a mistake, and now they're clinging to it. In the public, the Riigikogu has been called a rubber stamp for years. I think that the quality and reputation of the decisions of the Riigikogu have been affected by a number of factors. One is undoubtedly the adoption of low-quality or poor-quality laws. This is the current example. Then let us accept this law and do the work. I must admit that I belong to the people to whom such opinions of the Commission officials and officials of the Ministry of Justice, as well as those of the respected coalition and those who shape the government of Estonia, have the effect that, if they prefer unreasonable, more expensive and more complex solutions to more rational, faster and cheaper solutions, my appetite for constructive cooperation with them in the Riigikogu is beginning to decline.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U95	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to mention two suggestions or observations. Firstly, the amendment tabled by Ms Toobal on the draft in order to grant the right to stand as a candidate to those under 18 years of age. Yes, we have made quite a cardinal decision here in the Riigikogu, we have changed the Constitution so that young people can participate in municipal elections from the age of 16. This is certainly an important step in giving them rights and, in the same way, in giving them responsibilities, because they still have to understand what they are doing and who they are choosing. If we make the next decision to give them the right to stand as a candidate, we will put an even greater responsibility and responsibility on them, which I do not think is right today. With regard to Mr Adams' observation of the 400 young people whose capacity should be assessed in court, yes, I agree that we are putting an additional burden on the courts. However, the judges of the Supreme Court have also informed us in an informal letter that only the restrictions imposed in court are compatible with the Constitution. So in order for the draft to comply with the Constitution, there is no other option than for the court to decide whether or not to grant them the right to vote, or rather, whether to restrict the right to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U97	I'm closing the negotiations. Dear Riigikogu, six amendments have been tabled for bill 42, which we need to examine. The first amendment has been tabled by the Central Party Group; the Commission has disregarded it. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U98	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U99	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U100	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U101	We'll proceed at 12:37.17.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U102	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Centre Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There were 19 delegates in favour of the amendment, 50 against and no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 2 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, No 3 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, No 4 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, No 5 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and No 6 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of draft 42. The second reading of Bill 42 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U103	The second reading of Act 61 amending the Act on the Person Repressed by Occupational regimes initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Public Transport Act begins. The rapporteur is Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U104	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft Act amending the Act on persons repressed by occupation regimes and the Public Transport Act was completed in this Chamber on 23 September and the President of the Riigikogu set the deadline for submitting amendments at 17.15. No amendments were tabled within this deadline. The Committee on Social Affairs met on 22 October to prepare for the debate on the 61 draft law and the second reading. Lidia Soontak, Head Specialist of the Social Security Department, and Kärt Põder, Legal Adviser to the Legal and Human Resources Department, took part in the meeting. At its meeting on 22 October, the Committee on Social Affairs decided to table two amendments to the draft, the first being linguistic. In the text submitted, the expression "payment of the travel allowance' was used, but it would be more accurate to use the term "reimbursement of travel expenses', since the benefit cannot be paid or reimbursed. The benefit can be granted or granted and the cost of tickets, i.e. travel costs, can be reimbursed. The second amendment is a technical amendment. The amendment deletes the publication of the Public Transport Act from the introductory part of § 2 of the draft. The letter of publication was received on the basis that the Public Transport Act had not yet entered into force at the time the draft was drawn up. As you know, the Public Transport Act entered into force on 1 October. The commission made the following proposals: to send the draft to plenary by 29 October (consensus decision), to close the second reading (consensus decision), to send the draft to the second reading, to the third reading by 11 November (consensus decision) and to put it to the final vote (also a consensual decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U105	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Two amendments to draft 61 have been tabled, both from the Committee on Social Affairs. Let's go through them. The first and second amendments have been examined. The second reading of Bill 61 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U106	The first reading of the 58th draft law on supplementing the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, begins. The opening waitress is Andres Herkel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U107	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This is a legislative initiative that could be qualified as a fine-tuning of the current law. However, we believe that the problems of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act are wider and should be approached together and more generally than this small change in itself. But in order to bring you to the content of this amendment, I recall the day the bill was handed over. This was on 15 June, including when the Riigikogu's agenda included the second reading of tax laws relating to the trust of the Government of the Republic. On that occasion, the opportunity was taken to vote on the opposition's amendments in this Chamber, which are due to the Rules of Procedure. We were shocked to discover that § 137 of the Home and Working Procedures Act was formulated in such a way that it did not provide members of the Riigikogu with the opportunity to ask questions to the rapporteur, the representative of the Government of the Republic. Not only does the executive edition of the Home and Working Procedures Act say about this provision on page 415: 'The paragraph to be commented does not foresee that members of the Riigikogu may ask questions to the rapporteur. In view of the provisions of § 68 (1) of the ICC, this means that no questions may be asked. This is a deficit of the law because, taking into account the general organisation of the procedure of the Riigikogu, there is no reasonable reason why questions are not allowed in this procedure. " Having discovered this contradiction, we naturally initiated a bill. I would also like to remind you that at the opening of this session, there was a relatively hasty debate about whether the Riigikogu's management had the right to allow members of the Riigikogu to ask questions at all. This was acutely challenged by some ambassadors. I must say that there were strong arguments in the appeal, although the position of the Riigikogu Board that the possibility of asking questions was opened on this point was sympathetic. This discussion included this famous statement by Jüri Adams, which he said in the form of a procedural question, whether it is possible to approach the Rules of Procedure in such a way that the opposition is cut out of its mouth. After commenting, someone commented that it was not a procedural question, but anatomical question, etc. In short, it was all pretty fun and colorful, but I think maybe Jüri Adams will explain it later. Surely the problem is not only in this single provision, but it is generally accepted that this is an unreasonable accident at work in the Rules of Procedure Act. There are other restrictions on the activities of the members of the Riigikogu, the restrictions on speaking to them when dealing with drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U108	Thank you, Andres Herkel! Any questions for the initiators' waitress? No, it's not. The rapporteur is Kalle Laanet, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U109	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft law on Tuesday 13 October 2015. As the initiator of the draft act, Mr Adams introduced the idea of the draft to us in the same spirit. The spirit was more or less the same, everyone understood what the content and problem of the bill was. In principle, it was found jointly that the draft could come to a large hall. The decision was to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 29 October (this decision was consensual) and to propose that the first reading be closed (as well as consensually) and set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 12 November (as well as a consensual decision). It was decided to appoint Mr Kalle Laanet, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (also a consensual decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U110	Thank you. Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. Jüri Adams, please, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U111	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The few of you in this room on Monday nights know that I have continued my short call series in a free microphone. The last time I analysed the question of what rights we should have as members of the Riigikogu when we act in this Chamber. I would argue that one right should be that every time someone has to report, a member of the Riigikogu must have the right to ask questions to him. To what extent is this right guaranteed, to what extent can it be abused, and why is that right necessary? In my opinion, the reason is very simple. The report is oral. The rapporteur may have language lapses, may forget something, may be misheard, and may want to be specified about something. If we disregard the fact that the right to ask a question is used for other purposes, we should be guaranteed the possibility of using the question in a targeted way. I think that this is not only a question of this draft, but should be the case with any report. If there are several presentations in the debate on one item on the agenda, such as the presentation by the initiator and the representative of the Commission, I think it would be right for the Rules of Procedure to provide for questions to be put to both rapporteurs. In principle, it could also be possible that if the question limit is, for example, one or two, there could also be a fall-back option, so that, for example, the President of the sitting could, if necessary, submit written supplementary questions. The Chair would then be able to select them, looking at how relevant they are. But this should be resolved in all cases in the Rules of Procedure. Now the question is whether there are possible abuses in the exercise of this right. I don't think so. Asking questions as an obstruction method is not very productive, because, after all, it is not how much time it takes to formulate the question of the author, but rather how much time it takes for the respondent to answer. Another problem that we have also encountered today is that a member of the Riigikogu asks a question in a way that does not involve the content or uses any offensive expression. This is a matter of Riigikogu working culture. Fortunately, we have not had too many of these problems and there is obviously no need to deal with these issues by means of separate legal instruments. I'll make you a suggestion. We could review the whole questioning problem in this yellow book. It's not very voluminous. The problem should be reviewed in all the procedures of the Riigikogu and it should also be decided whether we should give it a final shape. Our experience here is 25 years long. I mean, all the Riigikogu members after the restoration of independence, plus the last Supreme Council. Obviously, all the options have been tested so far, and a sensible solution could now be developed on the basis of 25 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-29_U112	There's no more calls. The proposal of the Steering Committee is to conclude the first reading of the 58th draft. There are no other proposals. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. a on November 12, at 5.15 p.m. Bye! Closure of the sitting at 12.52 p.m.
