ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U1	Dear Riigikogu, Minister and good guests, good morning! We will begin the session of the fourth working week of the IXth plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. No drafts or requests for information are recommended. We're gonna do a presence check. Currently 63 members of the Riigikogu have registered as present and no 38.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U2	The first item on today's agenda is the debate on foreign policy as a key national issue. I'll introduce you to the discussion procedure. Pursuant to § 153 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the Bureau, on a proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, decided the following procedure for discussing foreign policy as a matter of major importance. First, the presentation of the Foreign Minister Keit Pentus-Rosimine is up to 30 minutes, followed by questions and answers for up to 30 minutes. The presentation by Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is then up to 20 minutes, with questions and answers up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask each of the two rapporteurs an oral question, followed by negotiations where only the political groups take the floor. We're going to the debate. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of Foreign Minister Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable guests! Lasting forever, securing security, protecting our people away from home, helping the Estonian economy to grow, democracy, human rights, the rule of law, a space of values that upholds and promotes freedom, and an increase in the influence of our state, these are the objectives and fundamental principles of Estonian foreign policy. Why am I starting today's foreign policy report like this? Because over the last year, we have probably all had the right goals in mind on a number of occasions. I will start today by thanking everyone who has contributed and made it possible for us to be able to say, here and today, that our security is secure. This thanks to the people of Estonia whose contribution has helped us to strengthen our security. This thanks are directed to our allies who support us, but also to all those who, by finding allies, friends and supporters of Estonia and by holding them every day. Thank you. Today we are facing Russian aggression in Ukraine. It has affected and will continue to have the most direct impact on our bilateral and multilateral relations, our activities in our region and beyond. At the same time, there are forces in the wider southern neighbourhood of Europe that are completely opposed to our values. Thirdly, we are increasingly faced with global development issues that need to be addressed with our active contribution. These are the topics that frame my presentation today. I will, of course, start with what, in recent weeks-months, in recent days probably scratches the soul most at every end of Estonia. It's a war 2,000 kilometers away. Our assessment of Russia's aggression against Ukraine is one of the fundamental principles of international relations, a serious violation of international law, which has now led to more than 5 000 deaths. The limit has been changed by force. One and a half million people have been forced to leave home. One and a half million people! Such action must have a price and must be paid by the person responsible. Did the conflict in Ukraine come as a complete surprise to us? No, you didn't. I recall that the document on the basis of the security policy adopted by the Riigikogu in 2010 states that Russia is also prepared to use military force to achieve its objectives. This is the conclusion that we reached after the war in Russia in 2008. But it was already eloquent in 2002, when Russia essentially suspended its withdrawal from Moldova and Georgia, in violation of both its commitments under the OSCE and one of the basic principles of European security, namely the principle of the country's consent to the deployment of foreign troops. Unfortunately, we see that this violation of the rules, the disrespect of the sovereignty of neighbouring countries, has been characteristic of Russia's behaviour in the 21st century as a whole. The mistake made by the international community following the Georgian war, when Putin's partnership with Russia was rushed, must not be repeated. The regime with the support of which civilians are killed and territories annexed is not a partner. Not a partner as long as behavior doesn't change in real life, not just on paper. The functioning and strengthening of the collective security architecture, NATO, as well as the European Union, has been necessary, fast and appropriate in response to recent events. As defined at the NATO Summit in Wales, the reinforced presence of the alliance in our region is a new normal state of the alliance, the new normal, a new normality. We are taking steps in NATO that have already increased the security of our region, i.e. Estonia, of course. I am thinking of increasing the presence of the Allies and the Alliance's capabilities. From the beginning of May last year, the air base of Ämar had Danish fighters, which were replaced by German aircraft in August. Spain is here now. Since spring, U.S. Army units have been permanently present in Estonia. Estonia, for its part, is ready to offer support to the Allied units. We are ready to do this and we will do this in addition to the 2% of defence expenditure that is the rule, which means that this year our defence expenditure will already exceed 2% of GDP. We take our responsibility and the need to make a serious contribution to security. In the time remaining until the forthcoming NATO Warsaw Summit, the three most important steps for us in the security policy are, firstly, the implementation of these decisions, secondly, implementation and, thirdly, implementation of the Wales Summit decisions. Honourable Riigikogu! In the coming summer, 75 years will pass from the Welles Declaration, whereby the US confirmed that it does not recognise the illegal accession of the Baltic States to the Soviet Union. Likewise, our annexation of Crimea by Russia is not recognised. It is natural that Europe and the United States are in agreement on this issue, and a large part of the world thinks the same way. Until the recent escalation in Ukraine, Estonia has had strong support for the two-track approach to resolving the crisis, first, finding a political solution and, second, constant pressure in the form of sanctions. Diplomatic efforts, which I hope will also lead to the first agreements at these moments, are worthy of recognition. However, as the past experience confirms, the implementation of possible agreements is crucial. A similar importance for the future would also be the lack of implementation. There can be no talk about the relaxation of the EU sanction regime until real and tangible results are achieved, the withdrawal of Russian arms and military personnel from Ukraine and Ukraine's re-establishing control of its borders and territory. As long as there is no such result, sanctions must also remain, the preparation of which is also under way, as decided by the Foreign Ministers a week ago. In the weeks following the Mariupoli attack and further escalation in January, much has also been said about strengthening Ukraine's defence capabilities with arms support. It is up to each country to make a decision on arms relief. Such military abilities may be needed, which, indeed, Estonia itself would not have to offer. If agreements are made as a result of a diplomatic effort of over 12 hours, their implementation of life could reduce the relevance of this issue. It is certainly necessary to take a decision based on the fact that the result is not even greater losses, but prevention, ending the conflict, not enlargement. The Ukrainian economy also needs urgent help. The additional financing needs in the coming years are estimated at EUR 15 billion. There is a desire to help Ukraine. We too look forward to convening a donor conference, which will also help to clarify our own further steps. Estonia's aid to Ukraine last year amounted to EUR 1 million. Due to the deterioration of the situation, we have planned this amount to be more than double this year at an initial level of 2.35 million. The Ukrainians themselves must be vigorously reformed. Corruption must be combated, democracy and the rule of law must be strengthened just as strongly, because it is very clear that reforms are an indispensable prerequisite for Ukraine's strengthening. What about bilateral relations between Estonia and Russia? That sounds almost rhetorical these days. What can be bilateral relations with an aggressive neighbour? One characteristic example is that Russian aircraft without transponders have violated the air borders of both Estonia and other Nordic countries. For what purpose do such actions take place? Among other things, there is certainly one desire to raise the level of stress in society and to create nervousness, to destabilise society psychologically. These examples are accompanied by a number of measures that violate Russia's hostile and international law, the sharpest of which is the kidnapping of the defence police officer Eston Suite from the territory of Estonia and its continued illegal detention in Russia. We have raised the issue of kidnapping the Eston Suitcase bilaterally with Russia as well as in the UN, the OSCE, the Council of Europe and the European Union. Our allies have done so in their bilateral relations with Russia. This case, unfortunately, is characterised all too precisely by the current low level of relations between the Western countries and Russia. In order to release the Eston Suitcase, all relevant authorities are working in Estonia. We will keep this issue on the international agenda until it has returned to Estonia. Examples of technical cooperation with Russia can be found. We have working contacts in the environment, cross-border cooperation, customs and other areas. At the same time, however, we in Europe have had to think seriously about how to defend ourselves against Russian propaganda spreading lies. The initiative of the United Kingdom, Estonia, Lithuania and Denmark on this issue has received a positive response both from other Member States and from the European Commission. But we should also remember that the so-called news from the sphere of influence of the Kremlin and its assertions are worthwhile and must be treated with extreme scepticism. Instead of spreading them very quickly, it is certainly worth checking the facts before being put to the head from reliable sources. In summary, as demonstrated by the debate in this Chamber a year ago, we have not wanted Russia to be isolated, but Russia has isolated itself from the wider European security architecture and has become a threat to it. To conclude with this rather dark tones, I would like to stress that, despite the increased tensions, Estonia is protected from external military threats, whether hybrid or conventional. Our security in NATO and the European Union is guaranteed. Good Riigikogu! Before moving beyond the geographical scope, but from content to matters of the same importance, I come once again to the European Union. During the first three quarters of last year, economic growth in the European Union reached 0.3%. An increase of around 1.5% is expected this year. It signals that Europe is once again on the verge of strengthening. It is clear that Europe and the euro area currently need good news. This was undoubtedly the last time Lithuania was mature in the euro. A number of countries in the current financial assistance programme have returned to the financial markets. This adds confidence and also demonstrates the success of structural reforms and smart austerity policies. For the first time since 2008, the aggregate deficit in Member States' budgets fell below 3% of GDP last year. Despite good news, however, growth in Europe has not recovered at the expected pace, for example due to a lack of investment. In this context, very high expectations of the EUR 315 billion investment programme proposed by the European Commission at the end of the year have clearly been set. Estonia speaks out in the European Union's developments and thus directs the Union's future. On 1 March, the Riigikogu will be elected, during which the Estonian Presidency of the European Union will be prepared, starting in less than three years. This, of course, gives us increased responsibility and gives us the opportunity to give more impetus to the issues that we consider to be priorities ourselves. Donald Tusk, President of the European Council, recently visited Estonia, said: "Estonia inspires, being one of the most innovative and technologically advanced democracies in the world, not to mention taking the lead in digital development in the European Union. ' It is particularly the promotion of the digital single market, but also the more efficient working of the internal market as a whole, that are those areas where we have a role to play, both before and after the Presidency of the European Union, and where we are rightly placed with high expectations. We can show our good cooperation and stand up for the common European interests, where the European thing is Estonia. Today, Europe's eyes are focused on Latvia, the current Presidency. Latvia has set ambitious targets for the European Union, targets that in many ways overlap with what Estonia considers important. One of them is the European Union's neighbourhood policy. What is the future of the Eastern Partnership? This question has been asked a lot lately. We are going to the Eastern Partnership Summit in Riga in May with the desire to give partners the incentive to move forward in European integration. We will probably all remember well how the Central and Eastern Europeans were encouraged to undertake reforms in a concrete European perspective, the knowledge that integration with countries of the same values is possible after the reforms necessary for the development of society. But we probably remember how we ourselves read the Financial Times, published in December 1994, where it was announced that the Baltic States would not be able to enter the European Union, because it would unnecessarily feed their hopes of security guarantees, and that it would provoke Russia. We stuck to our choice. It is now our moral duty to support countries and to act as spokespersons for those who have now made the same choice in favour of a European society. Yes, of course, they must make a large number of initially uncomfortable and difficult reforms. But these countries need to know that if they do the necessary reforms, the doors will be open to them. The choice and decision is and must be in the hands of a particular country. That is why we also support better differentiation of policies for the Eastern Partnership countries and encouragement of countries that are more ambitious and more prepared, such as Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. Other Eastern Partnership countries should also be addressed individually, including Armenia, Azerbaijan and Belarus. A hands-on outcome in Riga should mean moving forward with visa-free travel for Georgia and Ukraine. Honourable Riigikogu! I have already mentioned solidarity. Solidarity between allies is a very multifaceted phenomenon. We need to think along, not only to think along, but also to contribute to these issues, which, at first glance, are far from us. It is clear that, after the Russian-Ukraine conflict, Europe's security is greatly affected by what is happening in the Southern Neighbourhood, where I see two strategic problems. Firstly, we still have an unstable Middle East. There has been no positive shift in the Middle East peace process. We have seen a number of unilateral steps that have not brought the solution closer. Moreover, the civil war in Syria has for years given rise to terrorist groups such as ISIL. This terrorist organisation was able to expand its control over a number of Iraqi and Syrian territories last year. Moreover, ISIL has been sworn allegiance to the groups from Libya and Egypt to Pakistan and Malaysia. I stress that the fight against ISIL is not a thing between the West and Islam. A number of Arab states are taking part in these operations alongside the Western countries. Foreign fighters recruited here are directly threatening Europe, whose return to their homes could have disastrous consequences, as we had recently to experience in the case of the terrorist attacks in Paris. Estonia is part of a coalition against ISIL with 60 countries. We have supported the Iraqi regional government's armed forces by donating ammunition. We have also assisted the UN in Iraq and in mitigating the humanitarian situation of Syrian refugees. Estonian logistics experts have helped build a refugee camp in Jordan and we have participated in the UN mission on the border between Turkey and Syria. It is extremely important to prevent foreign fighters from moving to conflict zones in the Middle East. Estonia is also directly concerned. Last autumn, the UN adopted a resolution on foreign fighters, which we are now preparing to implement nationally. At the Ministry of Justice, an analysis is about to be prepared, which will specify the scope of the necessary legislative changes. Secondly, the acute crisis situation in Libya is affecting the stability of the Sahel as a whole and is amplifying the activities of extremists from Boko Harami in Nigeria to Al-Shabaab in Somalia. Libya is also one of the main starting points for boat refugees moving to Europe. Given the impact of this situation on Africa and Europe, a lasting solution must be found to the Libyan crisis. We are pleased that the efforts made in recent months under the leadership of the UN to start broad-based negotiations have also produced first positive results. As has already been mentioned, the issue of refugees is becoming increasingly acute because of all these tensions. Europe's Mediterranean countries are under the greatest pressure. Managing migratory flows there is a common problem for the whole of the European Union. Estonia has continued to provide financial and technical support for its resolution. We support the European Union's external border management coordination agency, Frontex, with experts as well as active participation in operations, training and capacity building activities. This year, Estonian experts and the rapid border guard boat will participate in the joint operation Triton in the Mediterranean. From a global security point of view, it is also important that a constructive outcome can be achieved in the E3+3 Iranian nuclear talks at the latest by the July deadline. Honourable Riigikogu! In order to ensure Estonia's security, we have taken an active role in international organisations and multilateral relations. We have participated and are still participating in NATO, the UN and the European Union missions. Also, following the outbreak of the Russian-Ukraine conflict, we do not want to become consumers of security. We must therefore contribute to the various military, humanitarian and civilian missions. This is how we produce security outside our home area. Last year, NATO's ISAF operation in Afghanistan, which was the largest in the history of the alliance, was completed. Together with NATO's allies and partners, we will continue to work on a new training mission. From UN missions, Estonian Defence Forces are currently in the Middle East and Mali. Estonia's participation in the United Nations mission in Lebanon is discussed in the Riigikogu, in which we cooperate more closely with Finland. Not only do we know that we have a number of cooperation frameworks for good and important bilateral relations with Finland, but also with other Nordic and Baltic neighbours. Last year was also the year of the Baltic Sea, among other things, for Estonia, because we managed three regional structures at once - Baltic cooperation, North Baltic cooperation and also the Council of the Baltic Sea States. The focus of cooperation between the three Baltic States is on practical projects. Within a year, we took a major step forward towards the mutual use of digital signatures, and we also made significant progress towards Rail Baltic. Energy security is, of course, a central issue in the regional dimension. Cooperation between the United States and Estonia in general is very active and covers almost all areas from defence cooperation to joint projects in the fields of education and science. A clear security policy dimension is also for us in the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TIP), which took a major step towards a trade agreement between the European Union and the US in 2014. We very much hope that these talks will continue at a rapid pace, as the entry into force of the Treaty could be the most important event of this year, but also of the decade, with long-term positive foreign policy implications. Honourable Riigikogu! The field of activity of Estonian business diplomacy has widened from year to year in terms of both geographical scope and activity of companies. Companies are supported by embassies as well as representatives of the EAS. We expanded our opportunities to support Estonian entrepreneurs in Central Asia and Arab countries. Our diplomats now reside in Azerbaijan and temporarily also in Saudi Arabia. Due to increased communication with Moldova, we decided last year to send a diplomat to Chisinau. We have further developed the network and infrastructure of Estonian embassies. A few weeks ago, I had the honour of opening Estonia's newest embassy building in Beijing. This year, we will open the embassy in Bucharest, the capital of the largest country in south-eastern Europe, which, when it comes to the external borders of the European Union and NATO, will play a significant role in shaping European security. Last year we opened the first Estonian embassy of history in Latin America, Brazil, which is designed to promote contacts and economic relations. One of the most popular travel targets for Estonian citizens is Australia, where this year we will raise our representation level from the consulate to the embassy. In consular cases, I cannot mention in any way today the 14 Estonian shipguards waiting for the case to end in India. This is an extremely regrettable story, which has stretched unreasonably long and, as a result, is also overshadowing the very good relations between Estonia and India. We will continue to support Estonian citizens in this matter as far as is within the power of the Estonian state, and we expect India to resolve the situation so that Estonian men can return home to the families waiting for them. Honourable Riigikogu! The European Union has declared this year a year of development and dedicated it to development aid. Estonia's weight as a provider of development aid has increased year after year. Last year, development aid financed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs amounted to EUR 9.8 million, and this year it will grow by another 2.1 million. Most of our development aid was directed to Afghanistan, Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, Armenia and Tajikistan. But the aid was also available elsewhere, for example in Palestine and Tunisia, where we support the development of e-government. It is important to add that participation in development aid projects certainly offers additional opportunities for Estonian companies. Estonia's contribution as a donor of humanitarian aid has also increased considerably, amounting to 2.7 million euros in 2014. Now the world organization, the UN. This year's two most important expected agreements concern the new sustainable development goals to be set for 2030 and the global climate agreement to be concluded in Paris. After all, both targets are the same: a more resource-efficient economic model that would help to improve the lives of even the most difficult regions. How the development of countries in extreme circumstances may affect the region as a result of water scarcity, desertification or rising water levels is not likely to require any further clarification. In addition to climate considerations, another important reason for the objectives to be pursued is the need to promote scarce and non-renewable resources in a cost-effective and as low a trace as possible. The world's population is growing. The desire for a better standard of living and living is growing. Consumption's swelling. But there will be no more non-renewable natural resources. This means that it will still be the winners in the future who will be able to squeeze out as clean and as value-added as possible from as few resources as possible. Estonia is also able to share its experiences in this area. All the development of our e-services and e-government is one of the examples of how to do more with less resources. We have also managed to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases in Estonia almost twice as much as in 1990, without the development of our economy having suffered in any way. I also mention the third reason for supporting the issue of CO2 and the reduction of dependence on fossil energy. It's connected to security again. Greater freedom from non-renewable fossil energy, mostly from distant sources, gives the essential freedom to countries that may otherwise find themselves manipulative at a critical moment because of their external energy dependence. Estonia supports the conclusion of an ambitious, legally binding climate agreement covering as many countries in the world as possible in Paris. Apart from sustainable development, Estonia continues to focus on the protection of human rights in its activities towards the UN. The key words are women's and children's rights, the situation of indigenous peoples and freedom of expression. Freedom of expression is also linked to freedom on the Internet. As a leader of the online freedom coalition, we organised a representative international discussion and conference in Tallinn last spring. More than 400 participants from 62 countries met in Tallinn, many of whom were represented at a very high political level. The so-called Tallinn Agenda, adopted at the conference, sets out recommendations on how to defend Internet freedom in the future. Dear Riigikogu! Estonia has set itself the objective of becoming a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council in 2020-2021. Membership in the Security Council is an effort for each country, but it provides an opportunity to speak up in making important decisions. Work on Estonia's candidacy will continue in the coming years and the future Riigikogu will certainly have the opportunity to contribute to this. Good listeners both in and out of this hall! Estonia's foreign and security policy status is now secure. For decades, a dedicated foreign policy effort has been made to this end. But as proved last 12 months, we must be alert and be aware of the dangers at the right time. We must act to ensure security both here at home and away from home. We must be prepared to anticipate changes in the wrong direction and to respond adequately to changed circumstances. I thank the current composition of the Riigikogu that foreign policy has remained the focus of your attention, that cooperation between Parliament, Estonian diplomats and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been so smooth. This has been important for Estonia. Lasting forever, securing our security, protecting our people away from home, contributing to the growth of the Estonian economy, democracy, human rights, the rule of law, a space of values that upholds and promotes freedom, an increase in the influence of our country, the survival of our country forever, these are the objectives of our foreign policy. Security begins with us, our desire to be protected, to take responsibility, and to protect freedom. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U4	Thank you very much. We'll get to the questions. I repeat, the response will last up to 30 minutes. Please, Ene Ergma!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U5	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State, for your presentation. I have a problem. The problem is that next Monday, I will be at the invitation of the current speaker of the Finnish Eduskunna, Mr Eero Heinäluoma, in Helsinki. The President of Finland, Mr Sauli Niinistö, and two ex-bikers have also wished to meet me. I would like to ask you a very short question: how do you assess the relationship between Estonia and Finland at this point in time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U6	Thank you, Mrs. Ergma! I do not know how to answer this question briefly. First of all, I wish you a very successful visit and success at these meetings. The very brief answer to this question would be that I regard these relations as very good. Finland is a very close and important partner for us. In fact, our societies are very, very closely interwoven on a number of levels. So if you want a brief answer, the answer is that these relationships are very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U7	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U8	Thank you very much. A common foreign and security policy of the European Union is important for Estonia as a Member State of the European Union and a small country. It is important to Estonia that Europe speaks with one voice. Therefore, I ask you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, what is your position in resolving the Ukrainian crisis on the so-called Normandy principle, where the President of Germany, France, Russia and Ukraine sit at the table. Russia has always liked the format to speak bilaterally and not with Europe as a whole. I think that's a very principled question. I would like to know what Estonia's position is on this format, where the fate of Ukraine is being discussed with Russia by Merkel and Hollande and not by Tusk and Mogherini.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U9	Thank you. First of all, all these meetings in various formats, which are about ending Russia's aggression and resolving the situation on the ground, must take place in such a way that, above all, it is Ukraine, which must be represented in these discussions, in these meetings, in the negotiations, in such a way that the interests of Ukraine are protected in order to ensure the integrity of Ukraine. With regard to specific formats, specific discussions and negotiations, the fact that Germany and France have taken on an extraordinarily complex role is certainly something to be recognised. Of course, all this goes very closely with the European External Action Service, including the High Representative for Foreign Policy in Europe. As you know, all 28 foreign ministers have already gathered three times this year to discuss both the situation at the moment and possible progress, possible solutions. We have quite freshly taken the decision that, since it is not really visible that Russia intends to meet the commitments it has made on paper, it is necessary to move forward with pressure measures, with sanctions. The unity of the European Union in all these discussions has been very important, has persisted and has been significant. You have certainly noticed that, before each meeting, either at the level of the foreign ministers of the European Union or at the level of the Council, we are hearing speculation about how this unity is starting to crumble, that it is not certain that this unity will persist. The distributors of these speculations are certainly very interested in breaking this unity. So far, they have been very disappointed in this. In Estonia, we consider this direction and principle of unity to be very important. Indeed, so far he has survived. Now, to come back to the beginning of your question and to refer to a specific format, I think that the effort that these two countries of the European Union have made and are doing - Germany and France - deserves to be recognised in any case. However, as I said in my report, it is critical that these advances are actually reflected on the ground, so that the conflict in Ukraine really ends and the suffering that has been created so far ends.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U10	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U11	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! Today, the eyes of most of Europe and of the rest of the world are certainly focused on Minsk and there all night, on 14-hour negotiations, which, as we have just heard, ended with a partial compromise. What is Estonia's current position on the issue of Ukraine and how to assist Ukraine in their concerns? What messages have you brought to your colleagues, partners from other countries, and what position could we take in the near future as to whether or not to give weapons? Where are we today?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U12	Thank you. I have to admit that we are in a personally slightly unequal situation with you at the moment, because it has not been possible or appropriate for me to follow the messages coming from my phone at the same time, to us or the news from Minsk in front of you. So it is very difficult for me to comment on the current situation in Minsk, since I am not really familiar with the news for quite the last few minutes. But once again, if a partial agreement is reached in negotiations that lasted all night and beyond, it is crucial that the real, real situation in Ukraine is improved so that the agreements that are concluded to ensure Ukraine's integrity, sovereignty, are actually implemented. It is understandable, as I have already said in my report, that as long as Russia's controlled action in Ukraine does not actually show signs that Ukraine can regain control of its borders, that the situation in Ukraine will return to normal, we cannot talk about either mitigation or termination of the pressure measures, but vice versa. Foreign ministers have given a very clear mandate to further tighten up sanctions, pressure measures, precisely in order to keep putting pressure on Russia. There can be no other option, because once again, the situation in Ukraine on the ground is what is critical and what must be resolved. What are the messages that we have given to Ukraine and our partners, both inside and outside the European Union, about possible aid, about the aid that we are giving to Ukraine? As we know, we have already contributed last year to mitigating the situation of internal refugees. We have helped both the Kiev protests and the victims of Eastern Ukraine's war. We have delivered food aid to Ukraine. We also offer our expertise on reform, because it is understandable that Ukraine needs a very large number of reforms in a very short period of time in order to strengthen its society, its country. This is what we definitely need to continue with and wish to continue with. This is why we have more than doubled the aid granted this year and why we are constantly stressing to our partners that economic support for Ukraine is vital. The country is at war. The damage that must be suffered is very, very serious, the humanitarian situation in certain regions is very bad, so economic aid is certainly necessary and very important. It is understandable and we know that Ukraine also needs help with arms. As is known and has been repeatedly said, Estonia itself cannot send the specific arms support that Ukraine needs. Each country itself must decide whether and what assistance it can provide to Ukraine, it is not possible to make that decision for another country. But it is clear that Ukraine needs help, and this assistance must be provided to it in such a way that Ukrainian society and country remain, too. With regard specifically to the provision of armaments aid, we all hope once again that this very long and tense round of negotiations will end with such a result that the provision of armaments assistance will no longer be so topical. We don't know if this is going to be the result or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U13	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U14	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, thank you very much for your presentation. You devoted it mostly to Europe, which, of course, is absolutely understandable. However, negotiations are currently taking place in Minsk, today the European Union Council is together, and tomorrow we may already be in a different situation. That is why I am asking about another region, which you mentioned only briefly, namely Asia. The Asian region is very fast and thriving, both economically and globally; it is a growing region in terms of security. The defence expenditure of Asian countries is already higher than that of NATO countries. What are Estonia's strategies towards the Asian region, what are our next activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U15	Thank you. Of course, we are also interested in good and practical relations with the Asian region. As you have even mentioned, developments in this region are rapid. Therefore, we certainly want good relations, we want to be a good partner and a good helper, for example, for our own companies, who are interested in finding new opportunities in this region. In any case, as far as possible, we will certainly contribute to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U16	Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U17	Madam Minister! I will ask one question about our own country and perhaps, in part, as President of the Israeli Friendship Group. Europeanism has many principles. One principle is that everything that concerns the Holocaust is part of Europe's consciousness, and the other is the principle of freedom of art. These two principles conflicted with the Polish exhibition dedicated to the history of Polish national consciousness at the Tartu Art Museum. There was a conflict with the local Jewish community. How can we assess the nature of this conflict, the possibilities of its solution? What was all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U18	Thank you for that question. Freedom of expression and expression is certainly a very important principle for every democratic state. Personally, I consider this to be extremely important and I very much respect this principle. Similarly, the culture and history of other nations and nations must be respected. A lot of things are jokes and jokes, but the people who died in a crime against humanity are definitely not the ones that should be joking. The Jewish community is part of Estonian society. If something offends this community, insults their feelings, insults the feelings of the descendants of those who have lost their lives or victims in this crime against humanity, then it is something that actually disturbs Estonia as a whole. Art must have freedom of expression, but this freedom of expression must not hurt anyone or cause suffering. If this has happened, probably without thought, then obviously the organisers of the exhibition have not sufficiently sensitively perceived the atmosphere of society. So I am sorry that this exhibition has offended the memory of the Holocaust, and I am very sorry that the Estonian Jewish community also felt insulted. I think it is right that the Tartu Art Museum took down these insulting exhibits, and I think it is also right that they have apologized to those visitors to whom these particular exhibits caused suffering.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U19	Thank you. Please, Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U20	Thank you. The talks in Minsk are unlikely to lead to any longer-term solution. The starting position is based on sand. My question concerns, regardless of the Minsk talks, the government's position on the provision of military assistance to the democratic government of Ukraine and the legitimate army of Ukraine. I do not share the view that it is up to each Member State to decide whether to grant military assistance. Is it in Estonia's interest to express politically the legitimate right to support the Ukrainian army so that they can protect their country?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U21	Thank you. Ukraine, like any other country, has the right to protect its country and its people, and other countries have the right to assist them in this. If you ask us what our interest or desire is, of course, our desire is above all, as I have already said here many times, that this situation, the aggression in Ukraine, which has led to the death of over 5 000 people, will end. Ukraine must be supported in such a way as to make this possible. You can understand that you do not support the principle that it is up to each country to decide on arms assistance, but so it is. No country can decide, on behalf of another country, whether to grant aid, in what way and to what extent it is possible, that decision can still be made by each country on the ground in particular. As I said, it is important that this decision is preceded by the conviction that aid will result in a reduction in suffering, in its cessation, and not in its introduction, that this decision will result in an end to aggression and not its spread. It is Ukraine itself that must define exactly what assistance it needs. According to current knowledge, Estonia does not have too much of this kind of assistance, including the arms support that Ukraine needs at the moment. We cannot offer them such help. Of course, we hope that the situation will be resolved in such a way that such a need will no longer be topical, disappear from the agenda. Whether that is the case, we will probably be much smarter on this point by this evening or in the coming days. It is clear that if negotiations over a long period of time do not end with a real improvement in the situation in Ukraine, with a real result, this issue will certainly rise to the agenda even more acutely and will become even more topical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U22	Thank you very much. Please, Maimu Berg!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U23	Thank you. Madam Secretary of State! You replied to Ene Ergma that relations with Finland were good. Listening to your presentation, I missed a little of the subject of how good and what these relationships are, because we know that these relationships are not just good for us, they are special. But I would like to ask you about the fact that the Estonian press recently gives the impression that Estonia's foreign policy towards Finland is such a chain of small naggings. Is this a new strategy for Estonian foreign policy, or even a tactic, and what is the next step in this chain?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U24	Thank you. I would have been happy to discuss a number of topics in a much longer and more detailed way in my presentation, but unfortunately the working schedule and schedule of the Riigikogu set their limits. Therefore, it was not possible to discuss all these issues, which I would really have been prepared to discuss in very detail. When I said before in reply to Ene Ergma that Estonian and Finnish society is strongly interwoven on a number of levels, I thought, among other things, that, just as in Estonian society from time to time we are probably more than needed, and just as it is probably the same in Finnish society, it is probably not all the same for two very closely interlinked, very important and special societies. So relations between Estonia and Finland, relations between Estonian and Finnish societies, mutual evaluation between Estonian and Finnish societies is very good. Indeed, there are many practical examples of this. We know that Finland is Estonia's most important and largest economic partner. We know that Finland is now taking steps to implement Estonia's X-Road solutions, for example. In this area, one of the goals of our cooperation in the future will be to offer the same X-Road solution to the whole of Europe, together with Estonia and Finland. We consider it possible that this joint project and cooperation could result in secure data exchange between the countries of the European Union, and the same one-off request for data that we have proposed at European Union level. We also have a number of pilot projects on cross-border data exchange, to give very concrete examples. We know that our ministries of education are committed to working together to develop e-learning. Cultural relations have been very important and good through the ages. Estonia's and Finland's defence cooperation is also in a very good and meaningful state and on a number of levels. We know that Finland will continue to contribute to the Baltic Defence College, and specifically there is an instructor from Finland. Estonia joins the Finnish battalion on the UNIFIL mission from spring 2015 to spring 2016. Finland cooperates with the NATO Cyber Defence Centre, and in 2014 there were two experts working at the Centre. These are just a few examples of how, how closely and how practically the two work together in a very intertwined society.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U25	Thank you. Please, Marko Mihkelson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U26	Thank you. Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for your presentation. As we can see, the talks in Minsk are currently in a very difficult situation and we do not know whether, in what way and with what result they will produce. It is quite obvious, however, that they will not solve such a much more serious problem, which is Russia's very clearly initiated confrontation, possibly even with the element of the Cold War to break the unity of the Western countries, to break the unity of Europe, to break NATO's unity. As you mentioned in your presentation, one very critical issue of Estonia's security is how unitedly the European Union, how NATO is currently addressing these threats and how united our partners and allies see it in the longer key. I would like to know what is being done in Estonia's foreign policy to strengthen this unity.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U27	Thank you. Honourable Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs! Indeed, I think that one of the objectives of the Putin regime in the near future is to divide the unity of the international community, the Western countries, our partners, which has been very strongly united. I think that the tactics used to do this, which we are seeing, are these same developments, with their behaviour in societies to stress, precisely psychologically exert pressure on societies, psychologically destabilise, send out infinite amounts of false information and then let these societies deal with this information or be delivered in this information room. What we do and what we have to do is clearly share our quite important historical experience, share the knowledge we have. Of course, we maintain very good and close bilateral relations with all our partners. Of course, we are also making a real effort to keep this unity, which has so far remained very strong and which has certainly disappointed Russia, the Putin regime, because its aim has been the opposite. Keeping it is something that we are working for both in the European Union and in a much wider way, both bilaterally and in all international organisations. And it's not just the State Department, it's not just our diplomats. I know that this is also being done very seriously by all Members, or at least a very important part of them, and also by working towards it outside Parliament. So that's what we can do ourselves and we have to do with maximum effort.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U28	Thank you. In the last three minutes, you can still ask Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U29	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, First of all, I would like to start by saying that I do not think that the recent warm-up of the border agreement, especially in view of Russia's aggression in Ukraine, was an overly wise act. But now the question. Please tell me where it is. Moscow is probably aware that we are about to have an election, and the ratification process will also take place in a new context. Does this silence indicate in your speech that you did not mention at all that this topic is once again moving towards such a silent freeze? What's your assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U30	Thank you. Ratification of the border agreement is certainly something that is sensible, necessary and in the interests of both parties. But I share your opinion and your assessment that the ball is still very clearly on the Russian side, if you could say so. I think that the way Parliament has behaved, by going through first reading and then waiting for the real steps of the other party to the Treaty, has been very wise and sensible. As we know, these steps are not visible from the Russian side. This one sentence, which the Russian Foreign Minister said in response to a question at a press conference, is certainly not a real movement, a real step, a real change from which we can conclude that Russia is actually ready and interested to complete the process of ratification of the Treaty. We already know that the border agreement is an issue that needs to be dealt with in the next Riigikogu, so that this process hopefully comes to an end. In the meantime, we must continue to say that it is on the Russian side who must next take concrete steps to enable ratification to be completed, because, of course, no treaty, including the border agreement, can be unilaterally ratified or enforced. Unfortunately, we do not see these real steps right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U31	Thank you very much. Because of the end of time, I'm ending this round of questions and answers. Thank you very much to the Minister. Next, I would like to ask Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U32	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, guests! Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know from the last 12 years that our foreign policy debate comes at a time when, essentially every minute, news and messages can come at any time, which can have a very significant impact on the fate of us and our partners, our allies and our good friends. Indeed, a lot is decided in Minsk, but I think it is very important today not to rush ahead with the conclusions. We know that, now that we are making our speeches here, no final agreement has been reached. In those days, 70 years passed from an event that largely laid the foundation for the post - World War II system. At the Yalta Conference, the then allies of the United States, the Soviet Union, and Great Britain decided to establish the United Nations in order to avoid further major disasters in the future. The cost of this was the sharing of Europe, with Poland's fate as the central issue. In the Yalta Agreement, one of the parties Winston Churchill said at the time: 'Poor Neville Chamberlain believed that he could trust Hitler. He was wrong. But I don't think I'm wrong in Stalin. ' Yet Churchill was wrong. Stalin broke his promise of free elections in Eastern Europe. Hardly a year later, Churchill was the one who announced the fall of the Iron Curtain from the Baltics to the Adriatic Sea in his speech in Fulton on March 5, 1946. Chruchill had hardly read the so-called long telegram of U.S. diplomat George Kennan, which had been set off from Moscow to Washington only a few days before Fulton's speech. In this analysis, Kennan, who knew Estonia well, analysed why Moscow refused to join the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund and how communism should be isolated. Churchill's bold speech and the doctrine offered by Kennan gave the Western world a purpose and content to counter Soviet imperialism. The fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 was largely possible by valuing these same principles. The collapse of communism with the collapse of the Soviet Empire marked the end of the Cold War. It had been won by the West, and the European countries, particularly those affected by the major wars, focused on withdrawing the peace dividend. In its shadow, however, it was overlooked that the changes in Russia were merely decorative. In the West, it became unnoticed that Yeltsin and Gorbachev, at the end of their confrontation, was able to preserve themselves almost untouchable as the most important foundations of the empire It is no wonder, therefore, that after Yeltsin's withdrawal, Vladimir Putin became the new president of Russia. Russia's concept of the world became increasingly revisionist. At a time when Russia's irreversible reform course and democratisation were believed in Europe, the Kremlin gave full impetus to changing the results of the Cold War. Its ideological flag statement was President Putin's recognition of the collapse of the Soviet Union as the biggest geopolitical disaster of the 20th century. I quote: 'We must use the UN Security Council and believe that defending justice and order in today's complex and turbulence world is one of the few ways to keep international relations from slipping into chaos. Right is right, and we have to follow it, whether we like it or not. Under current international law, force is permitted only for self-defence or with the permission of the Security Council. Everything else is unacceptable under the UN Charter and means an act of aggression. We must stop threatening with force and return to the path of a civilised diplomatic and political solution. ' Believe it or not, it is these words that have been written by no one other than the Russian President Vladimir Putin. On a very significant day, 11 September 2013, he warned in an opinion paper published in the New York Times about the use of the United States' power against Syria. Barely six months later Putin began a war against one of Europe's largest countries, Ukraine, in the shadow of green men. Thousands of innocent people have died now. Of course, Putin did everything in the direction of Ukraine, contrary to what he had emphasised only a few months earlier in the case of Syria so noblely. This is not surprising because the use of disinformation directed against the Western countries and strategically planned has been an important part of the practice of the Russian special services since the late 1950s. At the end of last year, Time magazine asked Mikhail Gorbachev, the last president of the Soviet Union, for an assessment of what is currently happening. Gorbachev answered without hesitation that a new Cold War was underway and was launched by the United States. In fact, the West did not start a new confrontation, of course, but behind it is the unwillingness of the current Russian leadership to accept the consequences of the Cold War. President Putin signalled his intentions to the world for the first time in a speech held at the Munich Security Conference eight years ago. We are now in a situation where, right there in Munich, Russian foreign minister Lavrov compares the annexation of Crimea to Germany's accession after the fall of the Berlin Wall. At times, it seems that the West and Russia live in parallel worlds where there are very few or no points of contact. The leaders of the European countries, led by German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Franςois Hollande, are trying to restore peace in Eastern Ukraine. But will peace at all costs solve the more serious challenge of Russia's revisionist attack on the Western world? It is important for Estonia, the border country of the free world, that the price of peace in Ukraine is not divided or even worse, the destruction of free Ukraine. Therefore, the sanctions imposed by Russia to curb aggressive foreign policy can only be relaxed if Moscow is perceived as a deadlock. Unfortunately, in the near future, it seems almost impossible. Therefore, the West must be prepared to maintain relations with Russia for a longer period of time. This requires patience, self-confidence and strong leadership from politicians. Is Europe ready for this? What can we do to ensure that the European Union and NATO remain united? Ladies and gentlemen, The biggest challenge facing Estonia's foreign policy, both today and in the visible future, is to reconcile security in an increasingly unfriendly neighbourhood with maintaining and strengthening our international competitiveness and a favourable investment climate. There's no reason to deny that time is anxious. In the last twelve months, the international media have consistently speculated on the idea that Russia's pressure against the West could emerge more acutely in the Baltic region. Also, the former NATO Secretary General, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, who has recently resigned, does not hide that Russia's ambition may be to test NATO's unity in the Baltic States. What do you make of that? Firstly, we are not surprised that Russia's expansionist foreign policy has not disappeared. We heard the same militant rhetoric in the 1990s, when the Baltic States were just approaching NATO. Secondly, NATO has shown in its actions over the last year that it will take seriously the protection of all its members should the need arise. In doing so, the Alliance's deterrence in the Baltic-Polish region is now much higher than it was a year ago. Narva is, and will remain, NATO's border city. Thirdly, Estonia itself has been consistent in real strengthening its defence capabilities. The fact that Estonia invests more than 2% of its gross domestic product in national defence has given us the status of a reliable partner among our allies. Despite all the increased threats and problems, Estonia's security has never been as well protected as it is today. In a free world, there is simply no better and more effective insurance policy than NATO to protect a single democratic small country. However, international dynamics are such that we must wisely increase our foreign policy activity. As a free world border country, Estonia needs to get used to new normality as soon as possible. The threats at our borders must not become the brake of Estonia's development. We must therefore ask ourselves whether we have implemented all our foreign policy levers to serve Estonia's main goals. How well has foreign policy action been coordinated between the various authorities of our executive power? Are our embassies' network and their tasks in line with Estonia's priorities? How successfully have we increased the wealth of foreign policy ideas in cooperation with us and international think tanks? How successful have we been in maintaining and strengthening the unity of the Western countries? We certainly have room for improvement on every question that we put forward. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has for years been the forge of Estonian foreign policy trends. This is a place in our foreign policy debate room where the smaller or greater differences between political parties should be integrated into a common policy. Years of experience confirms that Estonia's foreign policy is based on a broad consensus. This is particularly important at a time when the great change in the world requires a small country to act consistently in the defence of its national interests. Today's foreign policy debate is the last of the composition of the XII Riigikogu. It is therefore appropriate to remember for a moment what has been at the forefront of the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and how we have guided Estonia's foreign policy attitudes over the last four years. Since spring 2011, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has addressed more than 80 developments in more than 300 countries at its nearest 300 meetings. The main objective of more than ten foreign visits has been to strengthen our allied relations, address security issues and raise Estonia's profile in the growth markets of the world economy, especially in Asia. I would like to highlight four major issues on which the Committee on Foreign Affairs has focused in recent years: the Asia Strategy, the analysis of the Baltic-Nordic security environment, the Estonian-Russian border treaty and the Estonian network of foreign representations. In examining all these issues, the Commission has involved scientists, civil society organisations, entrepreneurs and also foreign policy promoters. One of the hallmarks of the world's great transformation is the consistent emergence of Asian countries, both as economic and political powers. Of course, China's growth factor is particularly important. The Committee on Foreign Affairs drew up a report on Estonia's opportunities for Asia until 2025 as a summary of dozens of hearings. The Asian strategy has given a visible impetus to the public debate on how to improve the expansion of Estonia's export opportunities and how domestic activities could support it. In particular, I would like to highlight the decision of the three Estonian universities to establish a common study programme for Asian studies from autumn 2016. At the same time, the government should restore the Asian target programme in order to better coordinate external trade activities and support the market access of our companies. In doing so, there must be no passive waiting. In Asia, the principle of the greatest success ensures that the country comes first, next to or after the entrepreneur. In 2012, the Committee on Foreign Affairs decided to launch a more in-depth analysis of the Baltic-Nordic security environment. We already found that in the medium term, the threat level could rise in our region. The only thing we didn't think was that the deterioration of the security environment would come so quickly. This, of course, has been caused by Russia's aggression in Ukraine. At the same time, Russia's cross-border activities have enabled a much more substantive security debate to be held, for example, with non-NATO Finland and Sweden. A very vivid example of how a political consensus that works in practice can help to achieve Estonia's foreign policy objectives is related to the Estonian-Russian border agreements. The active parliamentary diplomacy of the Committee on Foreign Affairs contributed greatly to Estonia and Russia concluding border agreements on 18 February 2014 in the wording that takes into account our main national interests. Ratification of these agreements is already to be discussed in the next Riigikogu. The Estonian network of foreign representations, its development and the preparation of our diplomats were also under the greater attention of the Committee on Foreign Affairs during the outgoing membership. On the basis of the analysis commissioned by the Institute for Foreign Policy and the hearings organised by the Commission, we found that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should carry out a serious audit of the locations of foreign representations and their actual capacity. With the available resource, the current 45 foreign representations are almost the maximum that Estonia can afford. At the same time, we have paid the government's attention to the fact that decisions to close or open embassies should continue to be discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, just as the Committee on Foreign Affairs will examine all Estonian ambassador candidates. Ladies and gentlemen, Development cooperation and humanitarian aid capabilities are one of the visible levers of Estonian foreign policy. Right now, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in the process of making a new development plan and a choice of destination countries. I would like to put it to the government's heart that the approval of such an important document takes place in the Riigikogu. The main destination countries for our development aid in recent years have been Afghanistan, Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine. Apart from supporting the principles of the UN's lasting development, it is in Estonia's interest, in particular, to help our neighbouring countries to secure their sovereignty. Of course, the most critical situation in Ukraine is now. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu responded to the events in Maidan with its first statement of support already at the end of January last year. In August, the Riigikogu adopted a statement in support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. Last autumn, the Riigikogu ratified the association agreements of the European Union with Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine, on a proposal from the Foreign Affairs Committee. To date, around half of the Contracting Parties have done the same. Completion of the ratification process without delay would be an additional signal from the countries of the European Union of our serious interest in the integration of these three countries into the Euro-Atlantic value area. At the same time, Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine are still the most dependent on achieving this goal. If a fee is paid for essential reforms or twisted to silence political opponents, the hopes of success for the countries themselves will be put at risk. Good listeners! Finally, I would like to thank all my fellow Members who have represented Estonia in international parliamentary assemblies or who have helped to strengthen contacts with other countries through the activities of groups of friends or support. In particular, I would like to stress the activities of the Estonian delegation in the ongoing reform of the Baltic Assembly. It has been difficult and time-consuming, but our good friends in Latvia and Lithuania have perceived the need for change. Baltic cooperation is very topical, and its effectiveness depends to a large extent on how best we can implement our limited resources to create a strong common ground. Our MEPs have been visible in foreign communication and their activities have contributed to strengthening Estonia's international position and credibility. Experience settled over the years is particularly important to pass on to the members of the Riigikogu elected on 1 March, because it is they who will have to assume serious responsibility in 2016 as President-in-Office of the Council of Europe and in 2018 as President-in-Office of the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U33	Thank you very much for the waitress. Now let's get to the questions. Please, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Good Marko! The Prime Minister has promised that we will help Ukraine in every way possible. But we know that the number of refugees is only increasing as a result of Putin's attacks and that the situation of refugees in Ukraine is very difficult. Since the beginning of the crisis, 58 Ukrainians have submitted asylum applications to Estonia, and three of them have done so repeatedly, but so far no application has been granted. The Police and Border Guard Board has justified the rejection by allowing refugees to relocate within the Ukrainian borders. What is your view on this? Should Estonia, however, provide asylum for some Ukrainian refugees, even temporarily, if that is possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U35	Thank you. This is certainly a very important issue. Unfortunately, the developments in Eastern Ukraine, Lugansk and the Donetsk region over the last few months indicate that the number of refugees is increasing rather than decreasing. It should be borne in mind, of course, that Ukraine is a large country and that many people fleeing Eastern Ukraine can find either temporary or permanent residence in Ukraine's own territory. We also know that quite a number of Donbass residents have moved across the border to Russia. But I think that Estonia should give stronger and clearer support to those who are looking for a temporary chance, for example, to live with relatives in Estonia or to obtain a temporary residence permit here. I believe that we should be much more active here in order to satisfy, for good reason, the requests that are being made to us. We must be prepared that the flow of refugees from Eastern Ukraine, Ukraine as a whole, can grow if events take a more dramatic turn there, if today's peace efforts in Minsk fail, for example. In any case, this is a very important issue, which must undoubtedly be borne in mind by the committees of the next Riigikogu and the next government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U36	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U37	Thank you. Thank you, honourable waitress, for a thorough review. In troubled times, it is very important how effectively, how coordinated and how strong the allies act in cooperation. My question is about European unity and cooperation. What is your position as to whether the European Union's action in its relations with Ukraine is effective enough at the moment? Perhaps it is also the question of whether this activity is coordinated, coherent and coherent with one another?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U38	Thank you for that question. This is certainly one of the critical issues for Estonia and the question of how united the European Union is, how united NATO is, how these internal challenges that we have observed in the European Union in recent times, I am thinking, for example, of elections in Greece and some other developments, can affect the unity of Europe in the short term or in the short term. However, the countries of Europe are mainly NATO Member States. This is a very important issue in our foreign policy, both now and in the future. I would appreciate the common sense of Europe now in a positive way, given the developments of last year and the way the European Union made it step by step, perhaps not as quickly as we would have liked, but it still came to a very clear and strong position to impose economic sanctions to curb Russia's aggression. This year will certainly be a challenge for the Member States precisely as the deadlines for sanctions come closer and it must be decided how we will then deal with them, whether it may be necessary, depending, of course, on the events in Eastern Ukraine, to think about tightening up the sanctions. But I believe that, in fact, all the Member States, despite the difficult negotiations that have been held lately, either at the level of foreign ministers or at the meeting of finance ministers, perceive that the European Union does not have very many alternatives other than to be united. There is literally strength and opposition to this aggression, which threatens not only the unity and independence of Ukraine, but also the security of the whole of Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U39	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U40	Thank you. I will continue with this same issue of unity and ask you to clarify some nuances. Anti-Americanism raises its head, and not only in Europe. For example, if we read the local municipal newspaper Stolitsa, this theme will be repeated from the number to the number. How do you assess this broader picture from the point of view of Estonia, Ukraine's point of view and the European Union's point of view? Does the changed geopolitical situation create any reason for getting out of the comfort zone? Do we have reason to worry about the unity that is inside Estonia and then in the bigger picture?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U41	Thank you. The next questioner is Tiit Tammsaar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U42	Thank you. Worrying is inherent to us. This is, in fact, a good medicine for treating troubles, perhaps we are seeing some problems a little more in advance than some of our partners, especially with regard to the alarm bells that over the years have sounded in the activities of our neighbouring Russia. We are thinking, for example, of the events in Georgia in August 2008, etc. However, I would still like to stress, in the light of my previous response, that cooperation at European Union level, and especially within NATO, which may be the most important thing for us, is that this unity is more than the media's gesture around it. Of course, there are certain currents, such as the anti-American one you mentioned. This is nothing new; there have been currents in Europe for a long time; at one point or another, they are slightly larger or smaller. However, I believe that, ultimately, at political decision-making level, it is clearly perceived that today, for example, we have a very important decision before us, the European Union and the United States, to conclude a free trade agreement. This would, in fact, make the position of the whole Western world very much more competitive in the context of growing, new centres of influence, such as China, India or any other, including Russia. Not only with the economy in mind, but also by solving the problems that are currently being seen in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U43	Thank you, Madam President. Good chairman of the committee! It's great to hear that our cooperation with the North is going well. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also stressed this. The question, however, is a different matter. My good ex-college and current OSCE leader Ilkka Kanerva have said that Lithuania and Poland have already supplied weapons to Ukraine. Do we have any information on how, what, and what?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U44	Thank you. I don't have any information about that. Perhaps the President of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, I mean Ilkka Kanerva, who has really done quite a lot of work towards Ukraine, knows this in more detail. The question is really very fundamental, and this has been asked of the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the past. After all, we see a very strong dynamic in both Ukraine and international relations as a whole. It is very important to be able to anticipate, as far as possible, any development of events and how these events, sometimes dramatic or moving towards disaster, can be stopped. As I mentioned earlier, the European Union, the United States and a number of other countries in the world have perceived the seriousness of the situation and implemented economic sanctions against Russia. If there is no significant result today in Minsk, or if we see in the near future that nothing will change in Eastern Ukraine, then the Western countries would need to think first of all about the possible tightening of economic sanctions. However, I think that it should certainly not be ruled out that the Western countries will, in one way or another, provide Ukraine with aid that will enable it to maintain its independence.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U45	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U46	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, Marko, for this wonderful presentation. I especially thank you for devoting much more time to the Asian countries. I am sure, as the Minister said, that if we want our country's influence to grow globally, we must certainly pay more attention to this region. But I have a question about the outside Estonians. As far as I know, you attended a debate tonight where you had a conversation with Estonians resident in Canada. What is their view of our security situation, how do they feel about what is happening in Estonia and Ukraine? What are their expectations, and what danger do they see?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U47	Thank you, Olga! Indeed, between 2:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. this morning, Skype has been the subject of an interesting debate. The Estonians of Toronto listened to the pre-election positions of the representatives of our political parties, but of course one very important issue was the security situation in our region. As we know, not only are our national companions in Canada and many other parts of the world concerned about what is happening in this region. After all, over 2 million Ukrainians live in Canada, and Canada has been a very active supporter of Ukraine in recent months. I believe this debate showed that our political parties have a very large joint role, explaining the current situation and also what we have to do in Estonia's foreign and security policy. But this debate also showed that it would be very good and useful if those Estonian citizens who live abroad, whether in Canada or elsewhere, in other countries, we know that there are tens of thousands of them, with their word and electoral behaviour, would give a signal of what kind of policy they would like to see in Estonia in the future. By the way, the very important subject discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs during its term of office is, for example, the programme of fellow nationalists. The government has made significant progress here. We have the National Companion Programme until 2020. There is certainly room, however, for a more thorough analysis of the current situation as well as for deciding what further steps we could take so that we can support our fellow nationalities in the best possible way. All Estonians around the world are kind of ambassadors to keep the flag of our country high.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U48	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U49	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, good waitress, for a very interesting overview. My question comes from a slightly different angle. A couple of weeks ago, the NGO alliance awarded over a year's worth of work here in our house. This was done by a charitable initiative for Ukraine, which is supported by three NGOs: the Ukrainian Cultural Centre, Estonian Refugee Aid and NGO Mondo. With their Ukrainian partner organisation Vostok SOS, they take the humanitarian aid collected from Estonia directly to the crisis area and also to villages where the hands of international humanitarian organisations may not yet reach. How much do you consider the activities of international humanitarian organisations to be adequate? Is the assistance of Estonian citizens, all citizens of Western countries, to this region important?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U50	Yes, this issue has been extremely topical throughout the last year. I think it has shown us, in the best possible way, how strong civil society is in Estonia. A number of citizens' associations, apart from the associations you mentioned, have, for example, delivered very important aid to Ukraine in support of refugees and internally displaced persons through voluntary donations. Special medical equipment has also been introduced, which has helped save the lives of many Ukrainian soldiers. So I don't see why this help shouldn't go on. After all, the government has also foreseen in its decisions that aid for Ukraine will increase significantly. This year, more than EUR 2 million is planned for development cooperation and humanitarian aid. It is very important to Ukraine for this assistance to reach these places and those sectors that can best help Ukraine and its people.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U51	Thank you. Please, Ken-Marti Vaher will probably be able to ask the last question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U52	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Throughout last year, the constant efforts of the Western countries to take measures that could deter Russia from continuing to act and to agree on uniform sanctions, which have been gradually, with great effort and under the leadership of some countries. However, the background to all of this is that, in essence, we no longer hear much about the occupation of Crimea, we are mainly talking about what is happening in Eastern Ukraine. How do you generally assess the effectiveness of the economic sanctions that have now finally been agreed? Do you see that in some areas sanctions need to be reviewed or tightened up? What could be the real steps that would really make Russia, in some form, think about what it is doing?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U53	Thank you for that question. As I mentioned earlier, we could actually be satisfied with what the European Union has done so far. Given that we have 28 Member States with different history in their relations with Russia, including the history of economic relations. However, it is very important here to perceive that an agreement on the sanctions currently in force shows that there is a common understanding and also a sense of the European Union, if we do not take such steps as have been taken in recent months. After all, the European Union has responded to events and has repeatedly announced, through diplomatic signals of every kind, that if Russia stops aggression against Ukraine, it will remove its troops from Eastern Ukraine and it will be possible for Ukraine to restore territorial integrity, and I am also thinking of Crimea, occupied and annexed Crimea, then, of course, the European Union and the Western countries will have reason to review the validity of sanctions. On the basis of today's news and the events that have taken place in Ukraine in particular over the last four weeks, there is no reason to say that we should somehow relax sanctions. On the contrary, we must tighten them up and the decision of the Foreign Ministers last Monday will probably enter into force on Monday. It depends, of course, on the events that are taking place, but I am more pessimistic than optimistic today. We should be prepared to impose additional sanctions. At the moment, very much attention is being paid to dramatic events in Eastern Ukraine and, for understandable reasons, it is in our interest that the massacres there will end in a way that Ukraine will be able to restore its sovereignty in these regions, its territorial integrity and its control over its borders. However, it is certainly Estonia's duty to remind its partners that the policy of non-recognition of Crimea, non-recognition of occupation and annexation of Crimea must continue until this issue is resolved, a solution that is in the interests of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U54	Thank you very much. I will finish asking questions to Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We'll continue the negotiations. Please, as representative of the Group of the Juhan Parts Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U55	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Fatherland and the Res Publica Alliance, I would like to use this for a short time to present some topical views. First of all, on behalf of the IRL, I give my support to the Eston Suitcase and his family. I want you to have the human strength to resist the injustice you are suffering now. Know that the Estonian state and society stand behind you and are in the minds of you. We would like to see the Estonian Government do more to free the Eston Suitcase. The issue of the suitcase must be on the agenda in all our foreign policy activities. The IRL demands that the Russian authorities immediately release the Estonian citizen. Any attempt to show this as a legal, correct and justified procedure is pathetic lies and resembles an absurd theater. President Putin, stop this absurdity and violence against the Estonian citizen! The kidnapping of the suitcase on Estonian territory is a political act and we treat it as a kidnapping by political motives. Second. We invite the Riigikogu to express our thanks to the US Congress for its swift and flexible response to demonstrate the willingness to always come to our aid. We commend the US government for sending a limited infantry contingent to Estonia. At the same time, we note that this may not be enough deterrence and that the presence of military capabilities in Estonia and the wider Baltic-Polish region must be increased in the future. We also recognise all NATO allies, especially Denmark, Germany, Spain, countries whose air force at Ämari Air Force Base has controlled our airspace. Three. In the government's foreign policy, we want to see much more courage and determination. Story points aren't enough anymore, tail jogging isn't enough. We are concerned about the loss of the coalition's ability to work, not in days, but in hours. Yes, defence minister Mikser's criticism of the Prime Minister may even be justified, but please do so in silence and with each other. The so-called Ukrainian-related cabinet meeting convened for the purpose of the election campaign and at the request of the personal image will significantly reduce Estonia's credibility. Four. What must be the core of our foreign policy in the coming years? The escalated confrontation between Russia and the West is a long-term one. It started not with the Russian-Ukraine war, but much earlier. The alleged Minsk Peace Agreement or truce agreement that we have just achieved will not change this confrontation as far as we have been able to get to know the text of the agreement in the last few minutes. We are still in NATO, while Russia is in the old place and still aggressive, only to clarify this fact in the West we now have to work somewhat less. Russia is unpredictable and capable of acting irrationally. Predictability and irrationality can also mean military confrontation. Christmas can only be met by force. Our foreign policy core is the creation of sufficient military deterrence of allies in Estonia and our region. We must take into account in the coming years, not in the days and weeks, that the development of events can be very dynamic, which is why yesterday's agreements may not be enough tomorrow. Five. A few weeks ago, I was on a quick visit with the Republicans of the United States and the former Prime Minister of Lithuania to give my recommendations on Ukraine's policy. I also dare to say, after this morning's announcement of the Minsk Peace Agreement, that we must be prepared to support Ukraine militarily. Estonia must also express this idea so that our allies can make these decisions easier. That's for three reasons. Firstly, this is a conflict of value and we must face injustice. Secondly, it is directly in the interests of Estonia's security. Ukraine must be able to defend itself. If Ukraine can defend itself, it will also protect Europe, including Estonia. Thirdly, the situation is so serious that any words will remain hollow if they do not follow. We must consider that there is a democratic government in Ukraine, a legitimate army, and there is no reason to say that strengthening this army in order to protect its country and its people, an independent state and a people, would somehow amplify the conflict situation in 21st century Europe. It is high time to understand the seriousness of the situation and to call things right. This is the Putin war, not the Russian war against Ukraine. It is wrong to use euphemisms such as separatists, etc. I recommend that Estonia perceives its responsibility to make the situation known to European leaders. It may be awkward, but we have to. The People's Republic of Donetsk and Lugansk must be declared terrorist organisations, and the government should also be braver here. Proceedings against war crimes must be brought before an international court. We must demand this from the European Union and our allies. Intensive attacks in January and Putin's rhetoric should provide sufficient clarity that there is no long-term peace in Russia's plans. Russia's aim is to destabilise Ukraine completely, and its interim objective is certainly also the exchange of existing government. How and with what timetable this will be achieved is an issue of its own. As a separate subject, the Estonian Government must raise support for Ukraine's reforms by the European Union. The European Commission needs to coordinate more closely the achievement of the objectives of the various projects. We see that the problem now is the so-called oversupply in some places and the lack of accountability of the donor. Since the reforms that Ukraine needs are so deep and must be irreversible, the tactics of small projects must be avoided. It gives the locals, the Ukrainians, the wrong message, as if the reforms were new plans and no real analysis is needed. The same is true of Estonia's bilateral assistance. We welcome this increase in aid, but we must perceive our responsibility. We must choose one area that we can afford and work with the Ukrainian Government in depth to achieve any success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U56	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Barbi Pilvre, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U57	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Colleagues! The public around the world is looking forward to the outcome of the Minsk Summit today to find out whether the German, French, Ukrainian and Russian parties have been able to agree on a truce and the Ukrainian-Russian ways of resolving the conflict or whether the crisis is dragging on at the cost of human loss. Hope is not lost, but the comments so far have been very cautious. Estonians as realists do not believe in miracles, but we continue to believe that negotiations are the right way to resolve the conflict. In a civilised world, it is a concrete dialogue between people that can resolve misunderstandings, even if one party obviously uses force. International agreements are people-to-people agreements, although they are formalised in documents as transnational agreements. Politics, it's communication. We therefore believe that the people of Merkel, Hollande, Putin and Poroshenko came to some level of understanding, although, as you can see, this is a very difficult communication case. According to Estonia's foreign policy line, economic sanctions are primarily those with which the international right to put this conflict on its feet, to curb Russia and to bring the conflict under control. In addition to the negotiations in Minsk, European leaders are trying today at the Council to agree on sanctions against Russia. Unfortunately, it is still the case that some countries want to catch bigger fish in shitty water, and the commercial interests of their country and businesses are hindering consensus. On the issue of tightening up economic sanctions, we are certainly more ambitious and concrete than some other European countries, even if it is a setback for Estonia itself, for example agriculture. The events of the last year have brought Russia back to Estonia's foreign policy topic No 1. Only ten years ago, when Estonia became a member of the European Union and NATO, there was a time when relations with Russia seemed like relations with any other modern country where trade in goods and culture, tourism were at the forefront and political issues in the background. Russia, as a problem, seemed to be in the past. Particularly quickly, the so-called old Western European countries forgot their vigilance on the subject of Russia. The Georgian war in the middle of last decade reminded the old Europe once again that Russia's ambitions for the restoration of the Soviet Empire have not disappeared, but are still smoldering beneath the surface. While campaigning now, a number of politicians probably have to answer people's questions: allow small things here, but how can you prevent war, what can you do, what depends on you? A few days ago, the Estonian media amplified the words of the previous NATO Secretary General Rasmussen about a possible Russian attack on the Baltic States. He was given a second by former Swedish Prime Minister Carl Bildt, both known among the people in Estonia as political figures. People are excited when it's in vain right now. We must remember that Estonia is not Ukraine, however, Ida-Virumaa is not Eastern Ukraine and Narva is a NATO city. Estonia is in NATO and Russia does not attack the NATO Member State, and Sven Mikser, the Socialist Minister of Defence, also confirms. We have increased Estonia's defence costs under political consensus to ensure the continued presence of the Allied forces, and we are ready to continue to provide them with comprehensive support in addition to the current defence expenditure. President Barack Obama's visit to Tallinn in September confirmed that our allies take the security of Estonia as seriously as the protection of the old Europe. To develop the Ämari base, the United States recently placed a large injection of money on its shoulders. The visit of the Estonian Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee to Washington, meetings in the US Congress, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and elsewhere contributed to the birth of this decision. Estonia's aid to Ukraine is currently on the agenda, but Estonia wishes the Ukrainian leadership to step up reforms in order to end corruption and ensure the rule of law. The death of thousands of people, the humanitarian crisis... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U58	Please, extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U59	... and the immeasurable suffering of ordinary people in the midst of the chaos that Russia's aggression has brought has been activated by Estonian civil society organisations. Humanitarian aid is also provided by the Estonian state. The possible next step that comes to the agenda is war refugees. The way Estonia behaves here is an important topic for discussion in the near future. The Russian-Ukraine conflict has also caused confusion in relations between otherwise good neighbours. Estonia and Finland are still best friends and cooperation partners, as well as different interpretations of the Russian topic. Estonia's principle of relations with Finland, however, has always been to hear and respect differences of opinion. How could this be different between countries where capital and labour move more freely than between Estonia and any other neighbour? By the way, yesterday's Yleisradio news recounted the Helsinki-Tallinn railway tunnel plan. A new high-speed transport link would further deepen cooperation between the two countries and reinforce political understanding. We have a great ally in the form of the United States of America, but Estonia is primarily a country of the European Union with the resulting position, law and responsibility. Our problem continues to be Greece and the economic crisis there; our problem is illegal immigration in the Mediterranean region. From time to time, we must remind ourselves that Estonia is still a country enjoying the European Union's financial assistance in many areas of life, but we must also be able to play a part in solving the issues that Europe is facing. We do not have the right to complain that we are a poor country and that we are strong, let us see for ourselves how to deal with Europe's problem regions. Estonia is providing development aid today. It is the duty of a responsible country to contribute to smoothing the disparities in world levels of development, which have always been the basis for conflicts. Development aid is also part of the Estonian state's reputation as a serious partner. I recall that the Estonian Parliament recently ratified the association agreements between the European Union and Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine, which strengthens our links with the former USSR regions. Increasing the influence of the European Union beyond the borders of the European Union is, of course, also in Estonia's interest. The more similar the values and perceptions of justice are between us and neighbouring countries, the safer life will be in Estonia. The world is smaller today than ever before, Estonia's international cooperation is not limited to neighbouring countries. Our problems are like the problems of any other country, including Islamic radicalisation, the continuing war in the Middle East and African developments. Estonia participates in international defence missions. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia is a serious state and a foreign political subject, not only a quiet, cautious observer. The Estonian Parliament has a central role to play in this work. I would also like to wish this House every success in this important work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U60	Thank you very much. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has proposed to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, if necessary, but no longer than 14 p.m. Before we proceed with the next report, we invite the people to the Chamber and we will pass this vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is to extend the sitting until the agenda is exhausted, if necessary, and it seems that this need has come to our attention. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. 46 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. We have extended the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. We'll continue the reports. As representative of the Central Party Group, I would like to ask for a speech chair in Enn Frontland. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U61	Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable guests! Good minister! I am trying to use the time given to me to speak rationally, and on the issues on which all the parties represented in the Riigikogu agree, I will not dwell. However, I am certainly also talking about Ukraine, because what is happening there and what can happen is a concern for all of us. I will start with terrorism, which is also at least indirectly linked to tragic events in Ukraine. Let us recall, here, the recent decisions of the Ukrainian Supreme Bank. In Europe, however, terrorist acts in France, Belgium, Greece and Germany have also contributed to the victims. This is therefore a wide-ranging and multifaceted problem, which requires an in-depth analysis and a comprehensive review within the EU to ensure a safer, practical preparedness to address the challenges in order to move closer to reducing the risks involved. It is also important to pay due attention to cases of violent terrorism where religious reasons are not used to explain the bloodshed of the monstrous. The European Union has done a lot in developing counter-terrorism measures, but in some cases there are shortcomings in the practical implementation of decisions. I therefore welcome the resolution adopted yesterday in the European Parliament, which calls for a programme to combat radicalisation, to strengthen the external borders of the Shengen region and to improve the exchange of data between the Member States of the European Union. It is not quite normal that, at present, only 50% of information on terrorism is transmitted by Member States to Europol and Eurojust. The creation of a European intelligence service should be seriously considered, which would help to ensure all this. Accelerate work on the data protection package so that negotiations on this package and the PNR proposal can take place in parallel. Serious conclusions need to be drawn from the reasons for the too slow implementation of counter-terrorism measures in Iraq and Syria, in order to ensure that the priorities for future actions are set more precisely and that the existing ones are implemented more firmly. I hope that the regional strategy of the European Union, prepared by the European External Action Service (EEAS) and the European Commission, will provide the necessary impetus to step up this effort to address the threat posed by Iraq and Syria and the ISIL extremist group. Cooperation is needed to curb the movement of foreign fighters, to control terrorist cash flows and to tackle the spread of extreme ideas. The problem requires a horizontal approach to terrorism, which in turn suggests the need for greater cooperation with the countries of the Middle East and North Africa. This would provide better opportunities to prevent terrorism than the phenomenon on the planet. Therefore, the importance of active engagement with the United States and the United Nations, especially with the Global Counter-Terrorism Forum, which operates at this world organisation, must be stressed over and over again. I am thinking, above all, of UN Security Council Resolutions 1377 and 2178 on terrorist threats affecting international security. The problem is today, and probably tomorrow, the financing of terrorism, the activities of terrorist foreign fighters, including the identification of their routes. More adequate measures are needed to prevent the radicalisation of terrorism and to ensure that all these issues are as factual as possible in the international media. At the same time, it is necessary to agree to prevent terrorist propaganda in the Internet. There is also work for the legislators of many countries, including the Riigikogu, and the European Union as a whole, as we are basically limited to the issues and threats that are closest to us geographically. Many problems and their solutions require a wide range of work to be carried out, as there is a risk of conflicts with fundamental rights and freedoms of people. It is certainly essential for Estonia to contribute to strengthening the Schengen external borders, making better use of the possibilities offered by the SIS II system. At the same time, we know that Estonia's border agreements with Russia, but also those between the European Union and NATO, are, above all, waiting for Moscow's decisive initiative. Unfortunately, the Kremlin now has more to do with its southern borders, which brings us back to Ukraine. I will deal with this from a slightly different point of view, all the more so as, hopefully, the Minsk Summit was able to reach at least a four-way agreement on ending the firefight. We will gradually get more information about the outcome of the negotiations that are still ongoing, whether the expected or feared turning point has been reached and at what price. President Petro Poroshenko's first statements have been pessimistic, so-called leaders of the People's Republics refused to sign the agreements reached. Heidi Tagliavini, a representative of the OSCE, member of the Tripartite Contact Group, has now also sat at the negotiating table. As talks in Minsk continue, the European Union summit in Brussels is also somewhat delayed. Either way, Ukraine will need the help of other countries and nations for years to come, because devastation has been total in the battle area and, unfortunately, human suffering continues. Suffice it to say that Ukraine has only 25 billion annual budgets, while small Estonia has nearly 10 billion. Ukraine therefore needs effective economic assistance. I particularly stress Estonia's willingness to help Ukrainians more than has been the case with development cooperation and humanitarian aid. It was nice to read that the city of Tartu has sent over 10,000 euros of medicines and medical equipment to hospitals in Mariupoli. Such help is affordable for us, but for the victims, it is invaluable. I think that the Estonian state should also be able to accept some Ukrainian refugees, otherwise we will be more like chatters. I would like to remind you here that at the end of this year, the five-year development plan for development cooperation and humanitarian aid will expire. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has already started drafting a new development plan and hopefully this work will continue vigorously after the elections. I hope that all ministries and non-profit organisations involved in development cooperation will make an important contribution to this process. There's a lot of questions. Will Ukraine, Belarus, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova and Afghanistan remain among Estonia's priority countries in the future? Should action be continued in current areas of action involving health, education, the rule of law, peace-building, economic development, environmental conservation and communication, or should something be changed? All of this must be meaningfully compatible with the global sustainable development goals replacing the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) this year. The 13th Riigikogu should certainly be re-examined, thoroughly analysed and probably updated by the important basic document "The principles of Estonian development cooperation" approved by the decision of the Riigikogu and in force since 2003. The work and work will also continue for the members of the next Riigikogu. There's a lot of strength and will for that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U62	Thank you. As the representative of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask for the speech chair Imre Sooääre.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U63	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, In the Riigikogu, which completes its work, we have significant shifts in foreign policy discourses in four years, the keywords of which have radically changed the security picture not only in Europe but throughout the world. New concepts such as 'hybrid war', 'green men', or the kidnapping of public officials are anything but reassuring. There are increasing numbers of alarming signals from different channels for the Baltic region. However, the examples given here by my fellow Members, such as the words of former NATO Secretary General Rasmussen concerning Russia, may also be deliberately encoded for specific target groups. After a six-year break, armed conflict is once again in the European Union's immediate foreign state. The choice of words is conscious, the term 'near foreign' was introduced by the former Russian Foreign Minister Kozõrev as early as the early 90s. It is still in use and its enlargement has materialised both in 2008 in Georgia and in the form of today's Ukrainian conflict. It is probably time for the European Union, too, to better reflect on the content of many of these terms in its foreign policy and, on this basis, to re-examine long-term defence and security strategies. There is no simple solution to the situation concerning Russia and Ukraine. It is all the more important to work with our partners in NATO and the European Union. At the same time, we must maintain a sober mind, not cause panic, no matter how irrational the behaviour of our eastern neighbour seems. For the Russian people, we have one clear message: incitement to hatred between nations and communities, both in the media and in the words of the leaders, must be resolutely condemned at any time and in any country. Today our partners have realised that the Russian fear of former members of the Eastern bloc was not just paranoia. Sadly, the price of this observation was the escalating war in Georgia, the Crimean Peninsula and Ukraine. However, this is exactly what the Foreign Minister said in his presentation. The world can no longer look at the European Union's immediate foreign country without defining the true nature of the conflict in Ukraine. Russia's behaviour is interpreted differently. Harvard Professor Stephen Walt sees Russia as a great power in decline with a declining population, trying to maintain its last spheres of influence in the world at all costs. As a result, the idea of Russia's loss of influence, perhaps even to the liking of many in the world, is not more aggressive and unpredictable than the one with nothing left to lose. A total collapse beyond our eastern border would probably also lead to even more uncertainty. However, economic sanctions so far are the only one that, at least in part, has been able to hold Russia back, and there are no alternatives to them at present. I certainly cannot agree with the words of my colleague, Mr Parts, that Estonia is a tail jogger. It is absolutely essential to help Ukraine, but it must be wise and prudent. What exactly is this, the minister spoke very thoroughly about this remote. Honourable listeners! At the same time, the difficult situation can become the starting point for our safer future... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U64	...because it ties us more closely to the good neighbors. Our cooperation with our partners is more effective than ever before, our defence capacity and defence will increase. The idea of joining NATO is also gaining popularity in Finland and Sweden. Our messages are being heard and taken into account in the world. It is also difficult to underestimate the value of the message that President Obama brought to Estonia last year. It is vital that we be able to use the growing influence of our word wisely and establish ourselves as a reliable partner. In the future, we should have equal partners not only in one area but in many areas. This requires a substantial expansion of the ambitions of Estonian foreign policy, training specialists to be competent to participate in other operations in the future. For example, we can be proud of Estonia's IT contribution to the Syrian refugee camp in Jordan or Estonia's activities as a member of the UN Human Rights Council, where personal freedoms, the protection of human rights and freedom of expression are our priorities. In the Riigikogu, too, we have taken steps in this respect by law. The shooting that took place in Paris just over a month ago was a sign that the conflict of cultures in Europe is, unfortunately, only getting worse. It should not be assumed that conflicts farther away, in the Middle East and Africa, will not affect us. The emergence of terrorist groups like ISIL is a growing global problem. Radicalism and large-scale immigration burdening the southern borders of the European Union are not just a problem for Italy, France and Spain. In the European Union, we not only share values and economic space, but also concerns. Our eastern neighbour has been able to influence politicians in Athens, Paris, Budapest, Vienna and Berlin by means of foreign policy races. These signals must also be taken into account. At the beginning of this week, ex-president Sarkozy of France acknowledged the annexation of Crimea. At stake are the positions of the partners that are, strategically, economically and politically, much larger than those of Greece that have emerged on the front page. We need to talk about them and all of them so that Europe can maintain unity in foreign policy priorities. Ladies and gentlemen, We also need to look to the future. It is important that we are able to apply the ingenuity of our foreign policy cart today and in the future. The ingenuity of Estonian people is increasingly gaining recognition worldwide, as are our start-ups. With smart solutions in the field of defence and security, more can be done than with any cannon or tank. Whether it is drones or software solutions produced in Estonia. In the context of globalisation and technological progress, diplomacy is changing its form in a classical sense. The country is no longer represented only by diplomats, but by people, their ideas, their culture and innovative ideas. As a nation, we are also ambassadors of our country in the world, why not trademarks born in Estonia, such as Skype or TransferWise. There is a need to find new ways in which we can grow Estonia in every sense in the world. There are now over 100,000 Estonian citizens living in the world. It is a huge human capital that we should involve more than before in order to achieve our foreign policy objectives and economic growth. Our people in the world expect to be given a new role, just as the organisations of external Estonia fought against the Soviet occupation for decades. The role of the state should be to give them hands through the global Estonian network, i.e. to create an e-village that would unite Estonians in the world. Through the global Estonian network, Estonian companies could find partners from abroad, which in turn would boost our economy and create new export opportunities. The e-village could also offer better access to the learning environment, which would help Estonians to preserve their culture and language in the world. This is also particularly important for new generations. Although times are tense, with the help of our allies, we are now more secure than ever before, and the growing presence of our partners confirms this further. Nevertheless, we need to think about how to expand Estonia's reach in the world and make our voice more heard. In order to grow, we must commit ourselves more to growing markets. A good example of this is the redevelopment of relations with China. The global Estonian network can also bring relations among Nordic countries to a new level in foreign policy thinking. Estonia should grow in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U65	Please, extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U66	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. On behalf of the Riigikogu, I would very much like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as well as the Committee on Foreign Affairs and all the speakers, listeners and actively participants in the debate. Thank you. This is the first item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U67	Let's move on to the second item. The third reading of the draft law amending the Land Improvement Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the groups want to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. We can therefore most likely begin the preparation of the final vote. Dear colleagues, I will put to the final vote a draft of 830. Please take a stand and vote. There are 41 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. The draft law amending the Land Improvement Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 830 has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U68	Let's move on to the third item. The second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Medicinal Products initiated by the Social Affairs Committee begins. Aare Heinvee, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U69	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! I would like to introduce you to the procedure of the draft law amending the Law on Medicinal Products 782 between the first and second reading in the Steering Committee. The procedure was emotional and I will try to convey the tonality of the Commission's meetings to you. The judgment of the Supreme Court of 9 December 2013 declared illegal and repealed the geographical and demographic restrictions imposed on the establishment of pharmacies. However, the Supreme Court also acknowledged that measures to ensure the availability of pharmacy services in areas with low demand are necessary. Following this decision, the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu launched this draft on 19 November 2014. The first reading took place on 16 December 2014. To remind you, I am talking about the nature of the draft and the views which the Committee on Social Affairs was based on in its decision-making. The aim is to ensure the availability of pharmacy services at the current level in rural areas and to avoid the accumulation of pharmacies in cities that worsen the situation of rural pharmacies. Since both family doctors and pharmacists are part of the primary health care system, similar guarantees of independence should be imposed on their activities and their invitations should be equally valued. Giving healthcare professionals a leading role in the pharmacy sector should ensure the long-term sustainable development of the pharmacy system that is more natural and based on the needs of the population and the state and not on business interests. Compared to today, the Commission's starting position can be called a move towards a more patient-centred and value-based pharmacy organisation. With this message, the Committee on Social Affairs commends and thanks the pharmacists and pharmacists for their commendable work. Two constitutional principles are in competition with the draft: protection of public health and freedom to conduct a business. What do you prefer? Beauty is in the eyes of the viewer, but two starting points must be taken into account from the point of view of European Union law. First of all, human life and health are at the forefront of the benefits and interests protected by the Constitution. Secondly, each country has the freedom of choice to ensure the level of protection of public health and how this level is achieved. Since this level may vary depending on socio-economic circumstances and policy choices, it is a discretion of the legislator and a political choice. In Europe, there is no country without restrictions, but these restrictions are different. The most indisputable final customer of the pharmacy service in financial terms is the Health Insurance Fund, whose reimbursed prescription medicines account for an estimated 80% of the total turnover in the pharmacy sector. The quality and effective integration of pharmacy services in primary healthcare also have a positive impact on the use of the Health Insurance Fund's budget, which in turn has an impact on the availability and quality of other healthcare services. It is therefore necessary that the state organises the health sector in such a way that it is in the interests of the patient and the general public, of a high quality and cost-effective nature. In other words, the pharmacy service is needs-based and strongly professional-ethical. Medicines should be used as little as possible but as much as necessary. The aim of the sector's activities is not to maximise the sales of medicinal products, but to respond to actual needs for treatment. Cost-effective and preventive pharmacy services help to prevent much higher costs for the country due to medicines lost in time. Although the Commission was dominated by concerns about public health, entrepreneurship was never depreciated as one of the foundations of the country. From now on, only the ownership structure will change. On the basis of professional fitness and will, any pharmacist can become an entrepreneur, a pharmacist in his own pharmacy. Three amendments were tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party by the deadline for submitting amendments. 15 amendments were prepared for the second reading by the Committee on Social Affairs. There are therefore 18 amendments in total. The Committee on Social Affairs prepared a second reading at seven meetings of the Commission on 12, 13, 19, 27 and 28 January and 9 and 10 February. Stakeholders took part in the Commission meeting on 12 January. At this meeting, the opinions and suggestions of the draft regulation and the Group of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Association of Estonian Pharmacists, the Association of Estonian Pharmacists, the Association of Estonian Pharmacists, the Agency of Medicines and the Estonian Centre Party were discussed. The opinion was published by all representatives of the invited stakeholders. The Estonian Association of Pharmacists, the Chamber of Pharmacists and the Council of Patients were in favour of imposing restrictions on the ownership of pharmacies. The representatives of the pharmacy chains that opposed the restriction of ownership suggested that pharmacists should be on the board of the pharmacy; they should not necessarily be owners. The Pharmacies Association also wanted to develop a needs-based pharmacy network. At its meeting on 13 January, the Commission decided to consensually entrust the Ministry of Social Affairs with the task of developing the regulation of the pharmacy's ownership restrictions, according to which the majority of the pharmacy's participation may belong to pharmacists. At the meetings of the Commission on 9 and 10 February, the amendments tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group and the Ministry of Social Affairs were discussed. I would like to introduce the amendments below. Amendment 1, tabled by the Centre Party, proposed the introduction of an additional qualified ownership regime on the pharmacy market, through which only a pharmacist, who is at the same time the head of the general pharmacy, could be self-employed with a licence from the general pharmacy. In the case of a legal person, the pharmacist must hold a majority holding and there may be up to four general pharmacies under the dominant influence of one pharmacist. The proposal was considered in substance and processed together with Amendment 10. The second amendment tabled by the Social Affairs Committee clarifies the title of § 311 of the Pharmaceutical Act. "Instead of the obligation to establish a structural unit of the General Pharmacies', the new title is "the obligation to provide a pharmacy service'. 3.1 to 9. the amendment tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs clarifies in greater detail at first reading the provisions of § 311 of the Pharmaceutical Act. They concern a transitional period during which at least 10 persons holding a general pharmacy may be obliged to provide pharmacy services in a low-demand area. Amendment 10 tabled by the Social Affairs Committee adds additional regulation to § 41 of the Pharmaceutical Act concerning the holder of the licence. First, the licence of a general pharmacy may be issued to a self-employed person who is a pharmacist and works as a manager in at least one of the general pharmacies operating on the basis of an authorisation issued to him. Secondly, when granting a licence to a legal person governed by private law to a general pharmacy, more than 50% of its shares and the dominant influence must belong to a pharmacist who is employed as manager in at least one of the general pharmacies operating on the basis of an authorisation issued to him. Thirdly, the pharmacist may be involved in up to four general pharmacies in a region with high demand. A similar restriction on ownership shall also apply to any person holding, directly or through another private legal person, shares in a general pharmacy. Amendment 11 (from the Environment) and Amendment 12 (from the Social Committee) are dealt with together. They fix the text to be deleted from the draft. The 13th amendment, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, supplements the draft with a new provision stating that the ceiling of EUR 9600 instead of the current EUR 1600 as a general rule laid down in Paragraph 23 (4) of the Law Enforcement Act. It is considered that an earlier enforcement mechanism through the influence of licences is not appropriate and that injunctions and coercive money are applied in order to comply with the obligation to provide supplementary pharmacy services. The latest amendments concern the deadlines for implementing the provisions of the law. The time to abolish vertical integration will be aligned with the time to switch to the pharmacist's majority-owned pharmacies. The content of vertical integration within the meaning of the Pharmaceutical Act was the separation of ownership between wholesale and retail. The transitional period shall be five years and shall expire by 1 April 2020 at the latest. A sufficiently long and uniform transitional period should alleviate any constitutional interference with the reorganisation of the ownership structure. The law enters into force in general. Now the procedural decisions and proposals of the lead committee. The Social Affairs Committee decided unanimously to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 12 February and to propose that the second reading be terminated. When the second reading is completed, we will be proposing a third reading of the draft on 18 February 2015. As a rapporteur for the Commission, I would like to thank the representatives of all the interest groups, the Agency, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the officials of the Social Affairs Committee and the members of the Social Affairs Committee for their very good and constructive work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U70	Good waitress, thank you very much. You have questions. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U71	Thank you. You propose that the Agency should oblige the pharmacy service provider, who has at least 10 general pharmacy licences in a city or city with more than 20,000 inhabitants, to provide the pharmacy service. In the second proposal, you say that one pharmacist or undertaking, as it may be called, may be involved in fulfilling the conditions for the authorisation of a general pharmacy operating in a settlement of up to 4 000 inhabitants or more. Four permits can be combined, but those with more than ten can be obliged. How do these two points match each other?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U72	Thank you. That is one of the key points of this bill. Maybe I stopped at it too shallow. There are two periods of time in this draft. The final regulation will be in place in five years' time if the property should be pharmacist-based and pharmacists may have up to four general pharmacies in an area with higher demand. What you have now pointed out sets out what will happen during the five-year transitional period. During these five years, all retail chains and wholesale chains can be delivered. In order not to create a void within five years, such a transitional period is provided for.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U73	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U74	Thank you, manager. Good Commission waitress! You have, in fact, discussed very different options in the Commission, apart from what you have come up with today. You yourself, Treasure, are also a vigilante chosen from the countryside. Is all of these options the one that has now come up with the right one and the best one to ensure access to the pharmacy service in the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U75	Thank you. The preservation of the pharmacy service on Earth was one of the main postulates on which the Commission was based. Guarantees are never guaranteed, but the Commission based itself on good faith that this regulation is the best in order to maintain and secure pharmacy services on land. How this law applies is demonstrated by life, but at least the firm will of all those involved, including the members of the Commission, is there.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U76	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U77	Thank you. Dear waitress, Did the Commission have an overview of the problems with the ownership and use of pharmacies and the location of pharmacies in other countries? Is this solution, which is now developing, in any way comparable to that of other countries, if there have been analogous problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U78	Thank you. This, too, was one of the very clear sources on which we came. We compared the regulations in force in our good neighbours, particularly in the European Economic Area. We dealt very specifically with the pharmacy arrangements of Hungary, England and other countries. It can be said that the approach is very clear throughout the European economy. The whole of the European Economic Area is mainly pharmacist-based. We are still trying to be part of this same legal and economic space.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U79	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! How much did the Commission deal with the training of pharmacists in Estonia? Were they involved? What is the significance of the amendments made by the Commission to the training of pharmacists in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U81	Training as a pharmacist can be well classified in two ways: firstly, in-service training aimed at higher education and the profession of pharmacist, and secondly, in-service training. Both of these are very important, but we addressed further training more. Pharmacies will continue to be obliged to organise further training for pharmacists and pharmacists who serve people.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U82	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U83	Thank you. From your previous answer to my question, I understood that the obligation to provide a service in rural areas will essentially lapse from the moment the ownership form changes. In fact, this obligation cannot be implemented in any way, it is only temporary. But you said in your speech that the new approach is more patient-centred and cost-effective. In essence, you want to legitimise the expropriation of property. That's what you want to do. If someone currently owns pharmacies, at least the majority of the shares will be expropriated. How is this cost-effectiveness and patient-centredness proven to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U84	The first part of the question was correct. That's exactly what it is. There is a transitional period, and when five years are over on 1 April 2020, the temporary regulation will be repealed, because then a new regulation should be in place, which should be the regulation of the Public Chamber of pharmacists. But when we came to cost efficiency and expropriation, I also mentioned in the report what is one of the postulates of cost efficiency. The pharmacist is primarily guided by professional ethics; he is not guided by business interests; he has to sell as many drugs as possible. But if the patient loses the medicine on time, the subsequent treatment will be considerably more expensive for the state. This leads to the simplest principle of cost-effectiveness. You mentioned expropriation. There was a very thorough discussion during the meetings of the Commission about how serious this is of constitutional importance. Here again, there are two sides: the protection of public health and the freedom to conduct a business. If, on the basis of the decision on consideration, the protection of public health prevails, it will give rise to the following rules: The transition period is long enough, five years. All analyses have suggested that this period of transition should be at least this long. I'm gonna stop at a little bit of what these people have to sell. Most chains are located on rental premises. The notion that they are enormously capitalised is not quite true. Capitalization is more specific to pharmacists than to chain pharmacies.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U85	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U86	Thank you. Honourable waitress! When I read all these materials and explanatory notes, it all seems too beautiful to be true. It seems that this new option will address all the problems of accessibility, competition and quality. I myself have strong doubts. In my opinion, there is a bit of a restriction on supply, a reduction in competition, protectionism in some places, our repulsion to foreign investment, which should not in itself be bad if the quality of the service is guaranteed. Much has been argued that pharmacists are well independent and can rely on their professional ethics. Is there no danger here that, if they have had to assume economic obligations to buy out pharmacies, they will be more closely linked to the expectations and economic interests of their business partners and will be subject to the kind of tensions they do not currently have?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U87	Thank you. This consideration was always discussed by the Commission. On the basis of which is more correct, whether this or the other option, the Commission has finally taken its decision. Once again, I say that there are no guaranteed solutions, but if we use similar solutions from our neighbours, they have found through long years that this is the most patient-friendly, value-based and also the best option for the country. Whether this happens in Estonia is not yet known. Is Estonia a completely different country from other countries of the European Economic Community? I don't believe it. Rather, Estonia may be vulnerable because the time of democracy in Estonia has been too short, 25 years. But if we do not pursue this better regulation, we will not know the answer either.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U88	Tiit Tammsaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, If it goes well and the law enters into force, which I am in favour of in any case, can a citizen with a pharmacist's diploma from another Member State of the European Union establish a pharmacy on the same basis as Estonian citizens?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U90	Thank you. You've got it all right.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U91	Good waitress, thank you! Sorry, there's one more question! We are more active when the button is turned on! Sorry, not more active, more operational! Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U92	Thank you. I'm sorry about my slow reaction! Can you specify once again how, in these regions with a lower population density, the Chamber of pharmacists or this new regulation will still guarantee this pharmacy service? In the case of other services, where the market is not functioning, the State or local authority shall declare a less bid and shall find the most favourable solution. This is the usual model of how public services are provided when there is a market failure. Here's a new scheme. I understand that the most successful pharmacists will be obliged to start running pharmacies in the country. What exactly does it look like, and what does this funding look like? Are such obligations legitimate, and can we control it in any way or manage it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U93	Thank you. In the future, the focus will be on the regulation of the Public Chamber of pharmacists. The Chamber of pharmacists should cooperate with the country, develop a needs-based pharmacy network or whatever. A similar example is notaries, including family doctors, who have covered Estonia's territory. The same should be done with the pharmacy service. There is no regulation yet, it is still being developed. There is also a pretty long time for this, but it could be an estimated year. What was the second question? Oh, how can I make a commitment? I come to our constitutional institutions. The Supreme Court, the Chancellor of Justice, the National Audit Office and the Competition Board have said that certain restrictions are not legitimate, but without restrictions land pharmacies cannot be held. Quite a number of these constitutional institutions have hinted that putting additional burdens on the most successful pharmacies is most legitimate if we are to follow the budgetary neutrality of the sector. Perhaps it is also right for analysts who say that the cheapest pharmacy arrangement is based entirely on regional subsidies if the state supports low-income and non-profit pharmacies. But it was not on the agenda in the committee. However, the pre-condition was sector-specific self-regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U94	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U95	Good waitress! I tend to be in favour of this thing. This question was asked whether Estonia was unique. Estonia has, however, written itself in the history of the world as a country of bold, unique, dizzying experiments. If we do another dizzy, insane experiment, we might do well. I'm an experiment. But purely human, I want to ask you one thing. You used the word 'budget neutral'. Is there any guarantee in this law that guarantees its budget neutrality, or do we have to ask the next Riigikogu to think about it? What guarantee do we have that this Chamber of pharmacists won't ask for money from the budget one day? Lawyers have to take care of themselves, notaries have to manage themselves, but there are also public bodies that say they can handle it, but they don't have any money, give it to them. How could this door be closed and the Chamber of pharmacists know he's getting nothing from the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U96	Thank you. I would first like to draw attention to the incomes of pharmacists. The average income of workers in rural pharmacies is below average. It's a little bigger in city pharmacies. This already shows that, at grassroots level, the sector is not very profitable. We're not talking about chain pharmacies right now. Indeed, budgetary neutrality can be dealt with in many ways. When I said that 80% of the turnover comes from the Health Insurance Fund, these amounts increase very much each year, the percentages may be two-digit. By budgetary neutrality, I meant that it was not precisely by applying this principle of regional support that the poorer ones would simply have to pay back the money, saying that they were worse. This obviously does not encourage a person to work. There must be some kind of market competition. It is not possible that we do not place responsibility on the pharmacists; it is also clearly the responsibility of the Chamber of pharmacists.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U97	Thank you. Good waitress, no more questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No requests for speech... It's a call. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In particular, I wanted to say that every time this drug law is being discussed, it is so damn embarrassing to be here. Otherwise, it is not so embarrassing for the Riigikogu, but what has been organised around this law is really just embarrassing. First, the judgment of the Supreme Court was ignored, fooled, a new law was passed, which was understood unambiguously that it was contrary to the Constitution. As soon as it was brought to an end, they came here, offered a new solution, blurred from one side to the other. I believe that this obligation to provide pharmacy services is a step in the right direction. But we can see that it's meant to be temporary. This obligation will be imposed for a single period while, in essence, the expropriation mechanism will be triggered, creating a situation in which ownership will be reallocated, at least majority ownership. Then this obligation to provide the service is virtually no longer imposed on anyone because the market is fragmented. Why they do it, I don't understand. They're talking about patient-centredity. How is it more patient-centred when a pharmacist works in a pharmacy and then he has other pharmacies where he's just a partner where he doesn't really stay or work? He may be a partner there, but Mr Gräzin can't, for example, and Liigi can't be a majority shareholder either. How, then, is this patient focus ensured? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, How is cost-effectiveness ensured when property is cut up? It is said to be more cost-effective if one owner may have fewer units. In the past, we were told that all of this was done to help poor rural areas. This is, of course, a longer topic, and I could give you long lectures here. In the past, in the procedure of this law, I have already mentioned what the modern principles of regional policy are when looking at regions rather than saying that Mõje is a rural area, but a kilometer away from it is urban life. We need to talk about the strength of the regions as a whole, not the separation of rural and urban life. But that's it. We all understand it was just a wolf story in sheep's clothing. That wasn't really the reason. As we can see from here, the real reason, in the long term, is not that, as a result of this bill, pharmacies will somehow be preserved in places with a small number of residents, because in five years' time it will all be over. Then the property has been reallocated, there is no one to oblige, and there is also a peaceful way of closing the pharmacies that were obliged to provide the service in the meantime. In summary, the real objectives of this market being consistently redistributed and allowed to operate freely in a market economy are somewhere else. Unfortunately, the bill waitresses never talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U99	Thank you. I ask Viktor Vassilyev of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U100	Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! It was very interesting to hear the presentation of the representative of the IRL. Apparently, IRL is a little unfamiliar with opposition and attacking the laws of the coalition. Today I am also a representative of the opposition, but I support this law. Can't be the way IRL wants everything to be absolutely free, on every corner anyone who wants to sell drugs could be completely free, and let the market then regulate. The pharmacy economy is a very accurately regulated thing, the pharmacy is very precise and the pharmacist is accurate. The whole pharmacy network must be regulated quite strictly by the state, otherwise this will not work. Non-regulation would still be potentially dangerous to human health, as any medicine is poison if it is not given in the right dosage or in the right indications. It's got to be a regulated thing. Very interesting discussions were held in the Committee on Social Affairs. I really enjoyed these long and meaningful discussions. The views of pharmacists and pharmacists are not quite uniform either. Most pharmacists, just land pharmacies, want the pharmacy to belong to the pharmacist. As ever in the days of Oskar Luts, when in the midst of a beautiful village where farmers plow a field with horses, there is a pharmacy and a church and a tavern. It's a beautiful sight. However, there were also pharmacists who said that they did not want to be businessmen and entrepreneurs or to fill out any financial statements, which is not exactly their job. As regards the fact that pharmacies dictate their terms to pharmacies, the chains argue again that if they own both wholesale and retail, it will be easier for them to see that prices do not rise too high. The ghost knows how it is! There's definitely a need for regulation. It is a good thing that this transitional period was not stretched too long. In the meantime, there were thoughts to give eight years of time, so that the pharmacy owner, who is not a pharmacist, could obtain a pharmacist's invitation within that time. I'd like to see Margus Linnamäe go to college to study for a pharmacist! On the other hand, the logic was that during this period a pharmacist could study entrepreneurship. Business leaders today study at university for three years, the pharmacist is still an educated and wise person, and he acquires these experiences within a few months. But it went, as he went, so the law is ready to be welded. We'll figure out how he works in five years. You can always fix something up there. Right now, according to my understanding, he's more or less what he's supposed to be. It should be that somewhere in the village between Väike-Maarja and Kiltsi there is a pharmacy. There's no rescue command, there's no bank, there's no post office, the store's closed, there's two-and-a-half residents, what's that pharmacy doing there! You see, ladies and gentlemen, you are driving around where there are still a certain number of voters living in villages, but precisely in the middle of Estonia, Kiltsi and Väike-Maarja, there are settlements with empty houses, windows smashed. I am afraid that the next Riigikogu should come up with a great law to ensure that these pharmacists in small settlements also have a shop, wealthy people who can buy medicines. Then these pharmacies would take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U101	Thank you. Please speak up, Rein Aidma.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U102	Thank you, Mr President. I want to correct some pessimism from the previous speaker. Firstly, the development of this draft and the destruction of one of the basic principles of this draft, the vertical pharmacy monopoly, began at the time of the previous coalition, the esteemed old waitress. Then we decided to go the way we are now. Secondly, when people come from the remote to say that they are embarrassing, my estimate is that there should also be some constructive idea of how to avoid this embarrassment. Since we didn't hear it, I'm embarrassed to hear such a wailing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U103	Thank you. Heljo Pikhof, what do you want? Would you like to come to this chair? [[H. Pikhof in the hall: I don't want to, I got the wrong button in.]] Oh, it's okay, then take the button out again. Do you want to use the reply option? Mr. Ligi, get out of the way. I can't see. You're interrupting the chair, Mr. Jürgen Ligi. Is there a right of reply? It's what you want. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U104	My speech contained a constructive proposal. My proposal was to allow the market to function normally and freely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U105	Thank you. Heljo Pikhof, speech from place or speech from Riigikogu Chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U106	In place.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U107	Got it. A microphone for Heljo Pikhof, please! One moment, you don't have a microphone, coming soon. It's gonna take a little bit of time from here to there. Please! [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U108	Thank you. I would like to remind Mr Kiisler that, when the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee was Margus Tsahkna, he believed he would be pharmacists. We've all heard about this Riigikogu speech chair here. He was also in favour of breaking up. That's what we've done. I do not understand how you, as the representative of your group, are doing something completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U109	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. We are now going to the examination of the draft 782 amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Centre Party Group, and the position of the commission is to consider the substance. Proposals No 2re 10 have been submitted by the lead committee. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group, the position of the commission is partly taken into account. Amendments 12 to 16 have been tabled by the lead committee. The 17th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is essentially taken into account. Amendment 18 is from the lead committee. The amendments have been examined. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the third item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U110	Let's move on to item number four. The second reading of the draft Fisheries Act 801 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Please present Annely Akkermanni, member of the environmental committee of the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U111	Good afternoon, Mr President, and ladies and gentlemen, who have remained in this Chamber. On 1 December 2014, the Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Fisheries Act, and on 2 December it was put into operation and appointed a commission on the environment. The first reading of the draft was closed on 17 December and the deadline for the amendments was set at 16 January 2015. The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed the draft five times before sending it to first reading on 9 December and between two readings four more times: 12, 19 and 26 January and 9 February. At its meeting on 12 January, Kaire Märtin, Head of the Fish Stocks Department of the Ministry of the Environment and Helen Holtsman, Lawyer of the Legal Department, and Ain Finland, Head of the Fish Management Department of the Ministry of Agriculture presented the draft at the committee. Aivo Kähr and Urmas Pirk were invited to the meeting from the Union of Fishermen of the Lower basin of Peipsi and Olavi Kasemaa from the Union of Coastal Fishers of Virumaa. There was a lively debate. At the meeting on 26 January, the amendments tabled by the member of the Riigikogu, Tõnis Kõiv, and the amendments proposed by the committee were discussed. Representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment presented their views and answered questions from members of the Commission. The Commission's amendments were discussed at its meeting on 9 February. They were of a technical nature. The most substantial of these is, I think, the amendment of the provisions of the Act which enter into force in such a way that the legislation granted under the law in force is applicable after its entry into force until the end of its period of validity or its repeal, in so far as they do not conflict with the law in force. I recall that the draft law on fishing has been drawn up in the framework of the codification of environmental law and there are few substantive amendments to the new law compared to the current law, but the rules are more logically structured in the interests of understanding. Four amendments to the draft were tabled by Tõnis Kõiv; as a result of the discussions, the Committee on the Environment finalised 20 amendments to the draft, taking into account the proposals made by Kihnu Municipality Elder, Viimsi Municipality Government, Jaanus Tamkivi, Rein Randver, Peipsi Sub-Argument Fishermen's Association and Virumaa Coastal Fishermen's Association. The proposals of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Environment were also taken into account. Here's a few of them. The first proposal specified in which case fishing would not be treated as fishing in the restricted zone. For example, such cases are the storage, repair and cleaning of fishing gear in a coastal restricted zone. In Tõnis Kõiv's proposal, the Fisheries Act includes a mandate for the Government of the Republic to regulate the marking of fishing gear and equipment for keeping fish in the water after fishing, including electronic marking and tracing. Amendment 6 prohibits the sale or landing of fish before being landed. Amendment 7 prohibits the processing of recreational fisheries on waters for which a minimum size has been established and does not allow for subsequent detection of undersized fish. Amendment 9 creates the possibility for a recreational fisherman to authorise another person to withdraw his fishing gear in the event of illness. Amendment 12 introduces the possibility of suspending recreational fishing on the basis of a fishing map and refusing to issue a card if the holder is in a maintenance debt. This legal provision has been combined with the draft law 803 yesterday. Amendment 14 gives recreational fishermen the right to use the gillnet at sea regardless of depth. At its meeting on 26 January, the following procedural decisions were adopted: We had a proposal to send draft 801 for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 12 February 2015. We have a proposal to conclude the second reading of Bill 801. When the second reading of draft 801 is completed, we have a proposal to send the draft for the third reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 19 February 2015. We propose that the draft be put to the final vote. All these decisions were taken by consensus. That's all I got. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U112	Good waitress! There's a question for you. Jaanus Tamkivi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U113	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, During the various discussions we had in the Commission on the Fisheries Act, professional fishermen quite several times expressed the opinion that we have gone down the road of overregulation in the fisheries sector. Everything is very regulated and there are also strict fines. Fishermen are considered to be potential criminals, and this state's attitude makes their soul sick. How do you feel about this new law, have we properly regulated the area, or have we leaned to one side or the other?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U114	This bill actually adds additional obligations for fishermen to report on their activities, such as GPS equipment on motorized ships, and adds a new mandate for possible electronic labelling when the Ministry of the Environment is ready. But, indeed, philosophically, it is a problem that all these restrictions and all the reporting are aimed at reducing predatory fishing and the damage to overfished fish stocks. As a matter of principle, fair fishermen are increasingly accompanied by all possible monitoring measures, which require the acquisition of expensive resources, and the submission of reports requires time. It's all meant to prevent illegal catchers. It's a problem, but there's no better way to separate the blades from the chuckles. There's another problem. Fishing regulations are not practical. For example, it is certainly not practical for a professional fisherman to go to sea with ten gill nets, perhaps 25 or 30 could be the right number. But these principles are based on historical fishing rights. In fact, changing them requires a completely different and serious social agreement in the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-12_U115	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We will begin the examination of the amendments to draft 801. The first proposal is from the commission, the second is from the commission, the third is from the member of the Riigikogu Tõnis Kõiv, the leading commission has taken full account of it, the fourth is from the member of the Riigikogu Tõnis Kõiv, the leading commission has taken it into account in substance, amendments No 5 to 17 are from the lead committee, the 18th amendment is from the member of the Riigikogu Tõnis Kõiv, the lead committee has taken it into account in substance, Amendment 19 is from the lead committee, Amendment 20 is from the member of the Riigikogu Tõnis Kõiv, the lead committee has taken it into account in substance, Amendments 21 to 24 is from the lead committee. We have examined all the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading of draft 801 should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the fourth item is also closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 1:15 p.m.
