ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! Happy continuing year for me too! We will begin the session of the first working week of the IXth plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, The war in Ukraine has been going on for a year now. The security policy situation has changed dramatically throughout Europe. The foundations of the security policy of the Republic of Estonia are determined by Parliament. This is the foundation for establishing the country's military strategy and other national defence planning documents. The current foundations of Estonia's security policy were confirmed five years ago, in 2010. When Parliament confirmed these in 2010, a clear formulation was used to correct the security policy base in the event of a change in the security situation. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union is now proposing that Parliament propose to the Government of the Republic the new foundations of the security policy of the Republic of Estonia to the Riigikogu because of the changed security policy situation. The Republic of Estonia has already taken several practical steps to protect the state, including the units of allies on Estonian soil. The foundations of security policy must clearly state that our goal is the permanent presence of allies in Estonia. The basis of our security policy is a central planning document for our defence and foreign policy, but it is also a clear signal that we give to our allies and the public about what targets we see in better organisation of Estonian national defence. I hope that Parliament will be able to deal with this draft decision during this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U3	Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, The fire at the beginning of the year, where the mother left her life with two children, must have touched us all. The head of the Rescue Board invited all responsible people to see if everything was done. At the beginning of the year, I spoke to a number of local government leaders, rescue workers, electricity sellers and childguards, and it turned out that there is indeed one place where we can help in this Chamber. If the family is excluded from electricity under the Electricity Market Act, but the family would actually be entitled to income support or need any other help, then the electricity seller cannot take over the duties of a social worker and start solving these issues. However, it is already the responsibility of the local government to help families and give them appropriate advice. Unfortunately, municipalities often or mostly do not know when someone's electricity will be switched off. This was also the background of the tragic incident at the beginning of the year. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association will hand over a draft which, without creating any special extra costs, will create a simple interaction between the electricity seller and the local government before electricity is cut off in some families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U5	Any more calls? No, it's not. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present and no 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U6	Now, ladies and gentlemen, let us discuss the items on today's agenda. I'm asking for silence in the hall! The second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu initiated by the Constitutional Committee and the Social Democratic Party Group begins. I would like to present the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Rait Maruste!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are working on a draft law amending the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures. The draft has been under way for about two years, so I think it is necessary to recall why and why all this has been done. The draft is a committee of constitution, but the initiative to initiate the draft did not come either from the chairman of the committee or from the Commission itself. This came from the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and the Executive Board of the Riigikogu. The reason for the initiative was the inadequacy and disunity of current regulation and practice and the lack of openness. I also consider it necessary to note that I have been granted the status of 30 years' secrecy of Riigikogu committees' material and now the destruction of the recordings again. I'm not one or the other. All the proposals in the draft are born in cooperation with the Chancellery of the Riigikogu as well as with the people of the National Archives. During the proceedings on the draft, no political group, not even any opposition group, made any proposals, i.e. neither the Centre Party nor the IRL came forward with any proposals. The immediate motivation for submitting the bill was the dispute between the journalist of the Estonian Express and the Chancellery of the Riigikogu regarding the materials of the so-called Committee of Inquiry on the sale of residence permits, namely the availability of recordings. The litigation has ended in two stages and is now in the Supreme Court. In the first two stages, the Chancellery of the Riigikogu was clearly lost, and there is a high probability that this will also happen in the Supreme Court. Thus, the Riigikogu is inevitably forced to specify the rules governing the fixation of the results of its committees' work and the status of the materials used. Draft 820 is the result of the merger of two drafts, draft 651 initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and draft 330 initiated by the Social Democratic Party. As I noted, the Riigikogu Chancellery and the group of representatives of the political groups also helped to prepare the draft. I would like to thank them for the thorough work they have done. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs prepared a second reading at its meeting on 2 and 15 December last year. The meetings of the Commission were long and thorough, so I cannot give a more precise overview of the debate in the Commission. I will concentrate on the proposed changes. If anyone is interested, I can also refer to what was thought and said in the Commission during the future debate. Amendment 1 As I pointed out earlier, the 820 bill is based on two drafts. The Commission's proposal was to merge these overlapping drafts, so it has become a draft of 651 and 330, a draft of 820. The Commission also agreed with this proposal. Amendment 2: Väino Linde, Member of the Commission, proposed to delete point 1 from its current draft, which would change the name of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Commission took the initiative to support this proposal as it was found that the amended name was not comprehensive and would create confusion as compared to the names of the other committees. Amendment 3 lays down the regulation to ensure the work of the Committee of Inquiry of the Riigikogu. The current law still defines an extra-judicial judge. The solution proposed in the original version of the bill, according to which the extra-judicial judge would be the Police and Border Guard Board, was considered to be unsuccessful, as this would lead to problems from the point of view of separation of powers. On the basis of this argument, it was considered that the committee of inquiry should have an independent right to fines.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U8	Sorry, waitress! There's a permanent buzzing in the hall, so it won't be quiet even after the bell's ringing! Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the new year has begun. But still, let's honor the waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U9	Thank you. The Commission, having discussed the matter, considered that the Committee of Inquiry had to have an instrument to oblige people to come before the Committee of Inquiry. If they don't, it should be possible to fine them. In the same way that courts impose fines or coercion on persons obstructing judicial proceedings, the right of independent fine shall also be conferred on committees of inquiry. The purpose of the fine is to influence the person to perform the duties imposed by the committee of inquiry. The decision must be motivated, i.e. justified, and must also be subject to appeal. I don't think the procedural path to appeal is the most successful, but something had to be found here. Amendment 4 is of a technical nature. The draft provides a terminological clarification, and I am not going to tell you any more about it. Amendment 5 was based on the initiative of the Social Democratic Party. The Commission's proposal is to make the work of the Riigikogu more inclusive and open. According to the amendment, the Commission invites relevant stakeholders involved in the preparation of the draft and wishes to participate in the discussion of the draft. Involvement may include informing stakeholders of the draft procedure, asking for their opinion, inviting them to a meeting to present their views, etc. This will be decided by the Commission. Amendments 6 and 8 concern the recording of the work of committees. The work of the Riigikogu committees is very diverse, starting with the work of the National Defence Committee and perhaps ending with the work of the Committee on Rural Affairs, but these are only examples, the range of topics to be discussed is very diverse and with different degrees of security risk. On this basis, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has seriously discussed the proposal of the Committee on National Defence that committees should retain their autonomy in order to decide on the need to record sittings. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered the proposal of the National Defence Committee in substance. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs took the view that it was unreasonable to provide for the mandatory recording of sound, given the different specifics of the work of the committees, and it was therefore considered justified to leave flexibility to the committees. The Commission's proposal No 8 provides that the Commission's meeting is to be recorded unless the Commission decides otherwise. The Commission may therefore depart from the general rule of the obligation to record the hearing by decision. The Commission is left free to decide whether a decision is taken on a case-by-case basis or on a case-by-case basis. It is not necessary to waive the Commission's decision to record sound when the session deals with state secrets or classified external information or when the session is held outside the Riigikogu building. As regards the preservation of sound recordings, the Commission has tabled Amendment 9, but I will come to that in the future. Amendment 7 is a technical clarification and I will not dwell on it. Amendment 9. One of the main objectives of the draft is to harmonise the practice of drawing up minutes of meetings in committees and thus to make the work of committees more open, transparent and informative. As a result, the draft amends the minutes of the committees in greater depth, the minutes must reflect the progress of the sitting and the evolution of the decisions and positions adopted. If anyone wants to take a closer look, it's in § 39 of the bill. These discussions shall not be associated with persons in order to allow free discussion, but the views of the speaker shall be recorded precisely at his request. In addition, the draft stipulates that, at the request of a Member of the Commission, the results of the vote at the meeting of the Commission shall be recorded in the minutes. The minutes shall become public after they have been signed and entered in the register of documents. The meetings of the Commission will be recorded in order to draw up a comprehensive record. The sound recording is a protocol tool. The Commission's proposal is to establish the status of the sound recording and to provide for a retention period. The Commission's proposal is to provide that the sound recording is a tool for drawing up the minutes and that the information on it is intended for internal use. As the sound recording has an assistive function, is based on a comprehensive document, the sound recording itself is not seen as a document and does not have any value on its own, i.e. the archive value is only on the record produced on the basis of the sound recording. Therefore, the Commission's proposal is to keep the recording until the end of the working time of the Riigikogu, as the drafts will fall out of the procedure at the end of the composition. The Commission was also discussing the possibility of storing the sound recording until the minutes were completed, but since there have been practical situations where the information contained in the minutes has been contested and it has proved necessary to check it, it was considered that the sound recording , of course, if the session had been recorded as a result of the recording of the minutes, would be available at least until the end of the working hours of the members. Amendment 10 regulates access to the recording. Since sound recording is an aid not intended for public use, the proposal provides that a member of the Commission and of the Management Board and a Commission official have the right of access to sound recording for the performance of their duties. Other persons may view the sound recording on reasoned grounds with the permission of the chairman of the committee. In principle, according to the same principle, we also have the participation of members of the Riigikogu in the work of the committee who are not members of the committee. A legitimate interest is given, for example, if the party wishes to verify the accuracy of the minutes. The proposal has taken into account the principle of the retention of Commission meetings, which in turn is reflected in the promotion of free discussion and the implementation of the generally accepted Chatham House rule in the work of committees. Amendments 11 and 12 relate to the clarification of terminology and here I have nothing to comment on or introduce. Amendment 13. The Riigikogu National Defence Committee proposed to supplement the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure with the provision for the entry into force of the Riigikogu decision. We have a procedure for the entry into force of laws, which is in § 108 of the Constitution. The general rule is that the law will enter into force on the 10th day following publication in the Official Journal of the State, unless the law provides otherwise. There is no such exact procedure for the decision of the Riigikogu. The National Defence Committee had a proposal regarding the Riigikogu's decisions on the use of the Defence Forces abroad. It would be useful for such a decision to enter into force upon signature, unless the decision itself provides for a second deadline. The Commission considered this to be an appropriate proposal and agreed with it. Amendment 14. The Commission's proposal is to remove from the draft the implementing provision governing how to deal with existing sound recordings. As the amendments under discussion today regulate the status of sound recordings and the duration of storage in advance after the law enters into force, there is no need for an implementing provision. These materials, including recordings, are subject to the procedure laid down in the Public Information Act. Amendment 15 regulates the processing of draft decisions of the Riigikogu which are discussed only at one reading. This regulation includes the appointment or dismissal of state officials, the appointment of members of the council and the formation of external delegations of the Riigikogu. The Commission's proposal is also to add to this list the draft exchange of members or alternate members of the special, investigative and problem committee of the Riigikogu, as it is not practical or necessary to make several readings either. It would be faster for us to do our job. Amendment 16 clarifies terminology. Amendment 17 fixes the draft as a law on entry into force. The Commission's proposal is to enforce the draft when it becomes a law, i.e. a on 1 March. I therefore have explained the amendments discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I repeat, the discussions were long and thorough and it would be difficult to give a detailed overview of all things. I'm ready to answer all the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U10	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U11	Thank you. President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! My question is about the start of your speech. You specifically said that the destruction of sound recordings is not your personal initiative, but it has been carried out with the greatest consensus. I recall that about a year ago the Riigikogu's body of elders was held, where the chairmen of the political groups were present. At the time, as Chairman of the Centre Party Group and Sven Mikser, Chairman of the Social Democratic Party Group at the time, I opposed the destruction of these recordings. We also did not see any rational reason for destruction because, as we know, these recordings can no longer be stored as tape sets, but can be stored digitally. I don't think those recordings are gonna fill up the Internet now. Can you explain again why it is not possible to preserve them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U12	The current recordings represent an unorganized array. The recordings are in tens of hours, if not hundreds of hours, as well as the recordings of all the committees. If we want to keep them so that they can be used in some rational way, it should be organized. You know how committee meetings take place. There's talk about the subject, but there's talk about extraneous things, jokes and whatever. It is not clear in itself who is speaking, however, when using the recording it must be understood that Kadri Samson or Aivar Sõerd, for example, is speaking, otherwise it is a large collection of noise. We specifically asked what the National Archives thought of this unorganized array. People in the National Archives said they don't care about this unorganized mass. As a result, what is written here is what it says, that is, we keep recordings as a support material during one of the working hours, that is, four years. According to the Public Information Act, internal information may be stored for five years and, in exceptional cases, the head of the institution may take a decision that it will be maintained for up to 10 years (this is used for example for diplomatic memos). But should we apply this procedure here or not? We found in the Commission, after long discussions, that we were sticking to one rule of membership. There were also suggestions that the recording should be destroyed as soon as the minutes have been drawn up. So this is the result of the long discussions proposed in this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U13	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U14	Thank you. Good waitress! I have a question about the fifth amendment: 'The Commission will involve those relevant stakeholders involved in the preparation of the draft and wish to participate in the debate on the draft. ' Why these interest groups? As we know, the most serious problems are often those who have not been involved in the preparation of the draft, because their opinion has not been taken into account. Why are you deepening the inequality of interest groups in this proposal? If, for example, the Ministry decides to involve a particular group, but some NGOs in the same field that do not share its views do not participate, why do you not want them to be involved at the level of the Commission? Why do you once again want to give preference to those who have been involved in the previous phase?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U15	Thank you. In part, I agree with you. As the discussion of this proposal revealed, there has been practice in the work of the Riigikogu, where a number of interest groups have been involved in preparing the draft at government level, who have been able to express their opinion, but when it comes to the Riigikogu, not everyone has had the opportunity to stand up for their case again. We are offering that, at least they would certainly have the possibility that those who have participated, who have shown interest and come up with their proposals, would also be able to participate in the proceedings in the Riigikogu. It is not prohibited that the Riigikogu invites all the persons concerned on its own initiative. The draft procedure can be very long, during which time the stakeholders may arise and disappear and the problems may change. It is perfectly natural that interest groups are invited by the Riigikogu to participate in the further work. It's self-evident. But we should exclude that those people who have participated in the preparation of the draft after, at the level of the Riigikogu, can no longer do so. That was the point of this thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U16	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U17	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I cannot agree with you that there could ever be an identification problem if it is necessary to tell whether Aivar Sõerd or Kadri Simson is speaking. This example, which you have given, was, in my opinion, not realistic. But I have a different question. You may remember the law of debt. Its first text was developed for either seven or eight years and was dealt with, I say, by memory, by three members of the Riigikogu. All subsequent formations also used all material from previous formations, all that had been discussed and used by previous formations. We imagine a situation where these opinions and debates really need to be known. Why are you cutting off such an opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U18	You're partly right. Indeed, there are things that are prepared by several formations and may need to come back to the beginning of things. But if we go this way, so that we draw up a comprehensive protocol, this is a bill request, so that the protocols are harmonised and thorough, so that they also reflect the course of decision-making, then the meaning of the recordings in the understanding of things is dwindling. I myself would not rule out the possibility for the Commission to take a decision that, since the draft procedure will last for a very long time, all the materials that may be needed will be retained in the future procedure of the draft. This option exists, it could be done by way of exception.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U19	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U20	Thank you. Dear waitress, I am a member of the Riigikogu Monetary Commission, which does not make recordings and the protocol is an 'enlarged agenda', it does not reflect any reasoning. I would not object if, rather than defending everyone's right to joke at this meeting, the meeting would work in such a way that the chairman of the meeting, the chairman of the committee, gives the floor and this speech is meaningful and is not later ashamed to see either the extended protocol or listen on the tape. Are you saying that with this new draft, the minutes of the Committee on Monetary Affairs will automatically start to pass on the debate or will they remain as general as they have so far been?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U21	We are trying here to introduce a general regulation that should apply to all committees. As I said, the committees have their own particularities, such as the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Committee on Monetary Affairs also has its own specifics, possibly the burden of drawing up the drawn-up protocol, with a record of positions on, for example, 400 amendments. However, the rule that we are trying to establish here on the content of the protocols should, however, be extended to all committees. I very much hope that the minutes of the committees will become a reliable and informative document, which they ought to be, and they will be the basis for historical assessments and analyses, as included in the document register. I hope so.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U22	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U23	Thank you. At the beginning, you stressed that the reason for this draft is the lack of openness of the current regulation. I do not see any greater openness in the text of this draft, especially given that, if this law is adopted as such, target groups will be treated differently within the meaning of this law if they are included. Please tell me what would happen if we didn't pass the law. What would be very bad?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U24	The disorder would simply continue. We regulate the life outside the Riigikogu to the details, while our own internal affairs are rather irregular and very uneven. This could not and should not be accepted by the national central authority. As far as openness is concerned, two things would ensure greater openness. Firstly, more detailed, more informative protocols, which are accessible to everyone in the document register, can be read by anyone and understand how the debate was conducted. Secondly, what I have already tried to explain to you once that at least all those who were at the beginning of the proceedings would be involved in the proceedings in the Riigikogu if they so wished. It turns out that practice isn't always like that right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U25	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U26	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I have a somewhat ethical or philosophical question. What are we doing in this hall? Are we going to make history here, or are we going to do something shameful? What do we do in committees? Do we think and reason there, and these thoughts deserve to be heard by our descendants, or do they do something shameful that must surely be destroyed? Explain to me, please, why in today's world, where it is technically possible to record the working time of all committees and to keep these recordings on the same medium, surely all these materials need to be destroyed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U27	I do not agree with you that all materials will be destroyed. At the moment, the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on National Defence are not recording their work, and I am excluding the special committees. Therefore, the practice is not uniform. Go on. Our job has two levels. Firstly, the work of the large hall that we are doing here and on which a verbatim is being drawn up. You've read it yourself, and every word is accurately reflected in it. There are not only recordings in committees, there are also a large number of memos, analyses, opinions, suggestions, letters, etc. That, too, is the work of the Commission, these documents are equivalent to recordings, and we should determine their status precisely. I would remind you that there is an ongoing dispute between the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and the journalist. The dispute is over at two levels of court and it is about the Supreme Court. Due to the fact that we have not defined the status of these auxiliary materials, including recordings, it is very likely that this litigation will end at the expense of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, therefore also the Riigikogu. Since the status of materials has not been determined, we need to do something and regulate it more precisely. Once again, if the protocols become substantive and comprehensive, so should they be, according to their idea, the work of the committees will not become more secretive, but, on the contrary, more open, because the recordings under the current regulation, when there is a large mass of unorganized data, will not actually provide new information.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U28	Thank you. Please, Rein Lang!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U29	Thank you, Mr President. I have been involved in this debate for over a year. Maybe I have a bad memory, maybe you're better. Do you recall any of the participants in this debate, any party that opposed the recordings as archivals of the archives, if the archive wanted it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U30	Thank you. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U31	Good questioner! No, no one opposed it. When the archival people came to the Riigikogu, they asked if they had any interest in these recordings. They said they weren't. That was a clear expression in the verbs response. So what do we do now?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U32	Thank you. Honourable waitress! It's still pretty much Orwell's story right now. We are talking about working for democracy and openness. We have the recordings that are stored. However, in order to achieve openness, democracy and access to information, we aim to destroy these recordings for a very clear reason after a certain period of time. The rapporteur pointed out that it was not possible to work with these recordings, because I quote the waitress at the hearing to make a joke. They make jokes, say irrelevant things, and that's why it's not possible to work with these recordings. My very specific question is: if the law enters into force on 1 March, when, according to the draft, will the recordings of the meetings of the committees in its composition be destroyed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U33	First of all, you didn't exactly quote me, but I take it as an expression of opinion. So, what do we consider information? Is it what is written in the minutes and entered in the register of documents or what is happening on the committees? I repeat that the draft request is to make the minutes substantive, concise and informative. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to record sittings. The same regulation that I have introduced to you here is used, in your opinion, probably in an undemocratic country such as Sweden. I specifically went to Riksdag to find out how their document economy was organized. What is now offered to you is quite similar to what they use. Opinions, memos, etc., including sound recordings, are aids in producing a document. We have an electronic document, and we have a paper document. It's in history, it's a priority. But if we have an unorganized array of sound recordings, then in today's digital world, the first condition is to correct it. Whoever's doing this job, I don't know. The archive doesn't want to do that. Secondly, are we still convinced that these recordings will not be manipulated or used to ridicule or damage the Riigikogu? In today's digital world, this is not out of the question. In order for the Riigikogu to maintain its dignity and reliability by providing better and more accurate information, this change would certainly be useful.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U34	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U35	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I worked on the Committee on Culture for ten years. I can say that recording and record-keeping were probably equal activities there, because everyone could read the protocols, and they were informative. I can give you this as an example of how the Commission could work at all. But I'm also talking about the future. There are committees where the minutes only reflect when the session started and what time ended. They also have recordings. What's left for the future? Is it just protocol? But where does it say all these 20 years of basic work in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U36	The goal is, I repeat, that the protocols are thorough. If this has been the case in the Committee on Culture, then it is very good. However, the recording itself does not reflect all the work being done in the Commission or the formation of opinions. Various written opinions, drafts, all kinds of material are also part of the work. What's their status? Are they all going to disappear? If we only keep the recording, we must remember that it is only part of the Commission's work. The request is to turn the minutes into comprehensive documents reflecting the formation of opinions, which also contain the results of the vote. If a national envoy wants the minutes to be recorded in a name and exactly what he said or thought his position was, then this is possible, and the addition is entered in the minutes at the request of the ambassador.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U37	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U38	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I do not see any major shortcomings in the current system, but it is nevertheless nice that you have taken on an unpleasant task of organising the internal organisation and practices of the Riigikogu. I've been pretty happy to have these recordings myself sometimes. As one option, have you also considered the possibility of exempting protocols from the Public Information Act so that they would be intended for official use for ten years and then become public? This time before disclosure would simply be longer, so that there would be no day-to-day vendetta, but at the same time there would be no trail.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U39	In the committee, we didn't discuss what you asked for. It was a question of what regulation the Public Information Act lays down. I have already introduced this: these materials will be stored for five years and this period may be extended for another five years by decision of the head of the institution. Since there has so far been no internal regulation that extends to recordings, it must be assumed that the existing material is subject to the Public Information Act. If this bill that we are currently dealing with becomes a law, then we have established a special regulation for this material, including the recordings. They are then intended for internal use and the head of the office, such as the Board of the Riigikogu, can decide whether to extend this period for another five years. It is possible to extend, but only for five years. We didn't discuss it for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U40	Please, Urmas Reinsalu, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U41	Thank you. Dear waitress, This debate here still kind of reminds Orwell that war is peace. When talking about the purpose of this draft, euphemism is used to'restructuring', which in fact means destruction after a certain period of time. I do not understand how this can be passed on in Parliament. My question is very clear. I asked it before, but I didn't get an answer. If this law enters into force on 1 March, at what time must the recordings of the current composition be destroyed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U42	This is not the scope of this law; it is provided for in the organisation of the work of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. The Chancellery of the Riigikogu decides which time limit or how it will be done. We are trying to establish the principle that the retention period would be the time of the office of one of the Riigikogu members. When the deadline comes, all the drafts will fall out of the procedure, the clocks will be turned to zero and they will start again. What is the informative meaning of the recording that was made, say, on March 15, 2013, I do not know. I can't answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U43	Please, Ken-Marti Vaher!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U44	Thank you. Good waitress! I have a question about the impact of this bill. The costs of the draft are usually also mentioned. I'm sorry if you've talked about this, but I haven't noticed. But how much will it cost the country this new harmonised procedure that you have referred to, which provides for substantive protocols? How many hours of human work have you counted on each committee and the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, how much will the destruction of these recordings cost at the end of each composition, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U45	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U46	We did not discuss the costs separately in the Commission. We found that we simply need to adjust the working methods, officials taking up work in a slightly different way than they are so far accustomed to. The destruction of the recordings you mentioned also requires no special resources or resources. The next composition can simply overwrite the recordings, so it is not an expensive undertaking. However, if we want to keep all the recordings, the National Archives do not want them, then we have to bear the costs. The Chancellery of the Riigikogu will then have to employ several archival people who will organize and archive this array.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U47	Thank you. I want to be more specific. If some of the Commissions really haven't made comprehensive protocols all these years, and the information has only been preserved on records, do we have the right to destroy this only information carrier? You said you were afraid of manipulation, but you can manipulate even when there is no information. It's mythology, you know that very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U48	The current situation has not been brought about by me at all; it has simply become so. Do we have the right to destroy the tapes? I'm gonna ask you if you've been listening to any recordings. You haven't listened to a single one. It's me. I can say that it is quite a painful undertaking to listen, for example, to the recording of the Commission's sitting for two hours. I'm sorry for those officials who have to make a proper record on the basis of the current technology. It is a laborious and very precise undertaking, as well as an intelligent one. But it takes a lot of patience to listen to this array. To think that the destruction of the recordings will cause irreversible damage to cultural history or political history is, in my opinion, an exaggeration. The Commission's work is also reflected in other materials: drafts, explanatory notes, etc. They also reflect the Commission's work. They are maintained by both the performers and the committees. I wouldn't overstate the sound recordings.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U49	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U50	Thank you. Thank you for your thorough explanations. I was interested in the arguments of the National Archives as to why they were not interested in treating these materials as archivals and taking care of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U51	I don't know exactly how to answer you because I wasn't personally present at that meeting. There were the officials of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and members of our working group who met the archive staff and asked questions at our request. I realized that the National Archives have their own rules and principles, which they consider to be a document and a material of preservation value. They considered that the unorganized array of recordings was not a document within the meaning of the Archives Act. That was why they didn't accept the material.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U52	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U53	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In my opinion, this is still a big step forward in some committees when a recording is made and then a protocol corresponding to the regulation. I'm coming back to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Mr Simson also mentioned that there are currently no protocols or recordings in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Personally, I miss them very much, because no substantive document corresponding to the form will remain in any debate. Was it said in the Commission that, on certain occasions, some of the recordings of the Commission's sitting could be kept longer? An example is when the EFSF or ESM financial obligations have been discussed at the meeting. If the state will ever borrow in the future and this will be discussed at the Commission's meeting, could these recordings also be kept longer?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U54	If your description of the work of the Committee on Monetary Affairs is true, this situation is regrettable. In this case, it is poorly fixed what decisions have been taken on the grounds. This draft aims to change this procedure, to harmonise the rules for documenting work and to make it more comprehensive and transparent. From the angle you spoke of and highlighted, we did not address this issue, because we really could not discuss it by committee. But we assumed that those committees who felt affected had tabled their proposals. For example, the National Defence Committee was very active in expressing its views so that our decision would reflect their specifics and interests. During the preparation of the draft proposal, a working group attended by representatives of all the political groups, but no one raised the question under this rate. We didn't do it on our own. But nothing interferes with the Commission's decision that it is so important and that these materials will be kept longer in the future. There's nothing to disturb it, there's no obligation to destroy all the recordings.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U55	Please, Ken-Marti Vaher, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U56	Thank you! Good waitress! In one of your recent responses, you mentioned that it is reasonable to destroy sound recordings or, legally speaking, limit their retention time to the working time of a Riigikogu, because they can be manipulated in the digital age. As far as I know, several committees have so far preserved sound recordings and made proper protocols. Do you know of cases where these sound recordings have been manipulated? If you know, who's done it? If this has not been done, who do you think would be the manipulator in the future if sound recordings were kept, as has been done so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U57	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U58	It is not possible for me to give an example of a specific case if this recording itself had been manipulated. You may be right in overestimating this threat, but it is technically possible. Our argument was that what was said in the discussions could be out of context, simply taken out of a sentence for a short time and released into flight. It is quite possible for such items of recording to be released out of context, for ironic, malicious or any purpose. That was our argument.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U59	Thank you. It is certainly a good thing that this law will in future lead to more detailed and verbatim protocols for committees. But I'm asking for self-esteem. If it is decided otherwise, it will be decided to give these records to the archives, who should be the one who cleans up this unorganized material? Would the institution that transfers them now be the task of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, or would it be the task of the National Archives?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U60	Good question. Of course, the Chancellery of the Riigikogu should be responsible first, and he should be responsible for handling this matter. If problems arise, decisions should be taken in cooperation with archival people. It's clear as day. We're trying to clean up what's been done a little badly so far. Perhaps we should stress that the Chancellery of the Riigikogu should operate in a more targeted, more thoughtful and orderly manner than it has done so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U61	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U62	Honourable Chairman of the Commission! In my opinion, this is a textbook example of the impact of the media on politics. When the two groups who are also making a strong speech here today were silent in the working group and all decisions were taken by consensus in the Commission, what do you think? Perhaps it is their wish that the current situation, in which the chairman of the committee invites the interest groups to a meeting, remains valid, that the minutes can be made so that they can only be placed on the agenda, and no provision in law tells us what to do with the recordings. Suddenly, their goal is to keep everything as dark as it has been before.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U63	The short answer is that I have, yes, that impression.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U64	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U65	Thank you. Unfortunately, I have not been part of any working group or committee, so my output is only in this Chamber right now. That is what I said to the current President of the Riigikogu, Mr Nestor and the waitress, in case you share the impressions. At the moment, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and, as far as I know, in a number of other committees, voting results are only quantified, for example: 3, 4 : 3, 5: 2, 2, 2 or whatever. It is not possible to read how the Members of the Commission voted, who voted in favour, who opposed and what political force voted in favour. Do you think it is necessary to be able to understand how the Commission voted? Does this draft law clearly state that the protocol must be drawn up in such a way that it can also be read from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U66	Thank you. That was the subject we were talking about. We maintained that if a Member of the Commission calls for a roll-call vote to be fixed, it will be done. If no one raises this issue, it will not be done every time, because it would entail a considerable administrative burden, we call it that, for the officials who are going to record the meeting. Suppose, for example, there are hundreds of proposals in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that are being voted on, and if names should be written each time, it would take too much time. But if anyone demands it, this possibility is guaranteed by the proposed regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U67	Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U68	Thank you very much. My question is not so much about recordings as about the role of the chairman of the committee, so as not to say power. You said that a member of the Riigikogu who does not belong to one committee or another may participate in the work of this committee if the chairman of the committee allows it. What is your personal opinion, could it not be normal in a democratic Parliament for a Member to participate freely in the work of the committee where he wishes to speak without necessarily asking for permission? In my opinion, this request for permission is an anachronism, which comes from another regime.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U69	Thank you. In part, I agree with you. Our mandate should presumably give us the opportunity to go to any committee meeting we are interested in. But decisions are also made in the Commission. Whether this MP should also have the right to vote and speak there, we should argue and think a little more. But the fact that a person can go in there and listen to what they say should be self-evident.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U70	Thank you. Please, Rein Lang, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Good Rait! I'm listening to this discussion here with great interest. Our current practice and the will of the legislator has been that the National Archives has been given the widest possible discretion to determine which materials it registers as archivists in order to preserve the history of the nation and the state. Now there are opinions in this Chamber that it should make it mandatory to keep certain documents in the Riigikogu, including recordings. Do you think that would be a good tone and you think it's even possible? After all, the Riigikogu would go over from the viewpoint of the National Archives if it said that in any case the recordings of the Riigikogu committees should be preserved as archivals.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U72	I think basically we have that opportunity. Since we are the legislator, we can prescribe how the archival law must be enforced. But whether it is also practical and in accordance with the principles of archives, I doubt that. However, it should remain up to the archival people and historians to decide what material they need to record and preserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U73	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U74	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I'll come back to my last question. I do not quite agree that there is too much bureaucracy, and that is why the Commission does not fix how politicians vote. It is, in my opinion, very important to fix this, because a number of important Parliament's decisions are taken within the Commission. Above all, I am thinking of the European Commission for Union Affairs, which is making policy at European level. If we are not able to read who voted later, but to look at us against the dull figures, I do not think it is transparent or reasonable. We're talking about e-state. There are technical possibilities in the large hall to hold roll-call and secret votes or anything. I believe that we could think that this could be done in the future within the Commission. Do you think that would be possible or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U75	I'll start at the end of your question. We have repeatedly said that our current technical supply is not enough to go the way you described it. I also think that voting should not be done in such a way that someone talks to a colleague and you do not understand whether he turns to his partner or raises his hand. Well, then, why don't you be the faquire and find out how he voted? If there is a remote control on the table, if a member of the Commission pushes a green or red button and the result by name goes automatically into the system, then this is the next step. I imagine the Chancellery of the Riigikogu is thinking about it. That request was made clear to them. The possibility currently proposed that this would be recorded in the minutes if requested by the MP leaves the possibility for the Commission to agree on a roll-call vote in each of the Lord's cases. Although the law does not require this directly, the Commission can agree on this. Please do so every time, and the Commission's work would be more public.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U76	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Rait Maruse! We're going to the negotiations. I'm asking for a speech chair for Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U77	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Point 1. In the rapporteur's speech, the sentence was that if we kept the sound recordings, the disorder would continue. It's not like that. I've been to a large radio station, but it is located outside Estonia, where everything that's been broadcast appears in printed form on the homepage in half an hour. That is not what people are doing; people are only looking briefly at this text; the computer is also dealing with the identification of speakers; there is no problem with that. Point 2. The speaker claimed that the archive did not want to do this clean-up work. Whether the archive is offered to do this job simply, with the same funding they currently have, or whether it has been taken into account, however, that if there is more work, there should be an increase in funding. I doubt that there are institutions that refuse to provide more funding, even if it increases the volume of work. Rather, it can be assumed that the archive was offered to do this work with current funding, simply through its own internal reserves. Here's another question I'd like to ask who's asking the archives questions like this. Does a state power that thinks about the future, documents that need to be preserved for history, ask such questions? We are the highest power in Estonia, in our own country. If anyone named Jossif Stalin comes to power, all documents concerning one, the other, the third and the thousands will be removed from the archives, when the next man arrives, the next man will be cleaned, and the next man will be cleaned. We should not be guided by this; we should be guided by other examples. I remind you, in my opinion, of the most outstanding President of Estonia, Lennart Merit. He was president, but his first books weren't collected from the libraries. I will tell those who have not read these books that there is almost every page of Communism being praised. But it's been alive and how without it. Point 3. The case in which the journalist wants information was mentioned here. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now asking who in this Chamber is willing to accept the slogan that he is Charlie, he is in favour of freedom of expression. Then why can't you pick up the slogan 'I am the Riigikogu'? Can somebody explain it to me? Why does a journalist in France have to have absolute freedom and why does Estonia not have this freedom and we are restricting it yet? Point 4. Sounded like a sound recording would open the way to manipulate. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U78	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U79	I mean the other way around. The lack of sound recording gives you the opportunity to manipulate. Who can stop someone from talking when the sound recordings are gone and there are only those papers left where there are no opinions or anyone's speech on them? Who prevents any person from putting random words in their mouths? How does this person prove that he has not spoken or said anything else? If there's a document, there's no manipulation. If you destroy the document, you'll open the way. This is where the question arises as to why it really takes the sound files to be destroyed. This is my modest personal opinion, but it is clear that there are political forces who can now speak directly the opposite of what they said six months or a year ago, and they need the opportunity to change their opinion again and again and again in the future. This is very important to politicians. Our sphere of action gets narrower and narrower, each time comes and comes the same faces, but time changes. Once in the coalition we need to talk about one thing, after the opposition we need to talk about another, in the next coalition we need to talk about three, and we need to prepare for the next coalition, where we probably need to talk about something that does not match what was once said. Documents will be destroyed so that no one can prove that this or the other gentleman on this or the other date... Urmas is smiling at me. I immediately remembered how Res Publica always said that there had not been such a council decision and they had not said that they supported the nullity of citizenship. I had to come over here and show them a sheet of paper with their signatures on it. That's why they're destroying documents. Colleagues, this is all lyrics, but the important thing is that we are dealing with this decision less than two months before the elections. Soon the doors will be opened and new people will be here. Perhaps these new people support freedom of expression not only in France but also in Estonia. I think that this issue should be suspended. Let this question, which sets the basis for the work of the Riigikogu actually differently than it has been for a quarter of a century, be decided by the people who will be here in two months' time, not by us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U80	Thank you. Please, Urmas Reinsalu! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U81	Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance makes a clear suggestion: we interrupt the procedure for this draft law. You don't have to deal with this shit! The talk about the need to clean things up, and if we do not clean them up now, there is no democracy or openness, is very beautiful, but the idea of this bill is different. Rait Maruste didn't want to answer my question about the recordings of the current formation. After all, the law is very logical and, on 1 March, this law would enter into force if it were adopted. This means that on 1 March all existing recordings of its composition must be destroyed. Very simple and logical. There was a rumor that the committees could decide for themselves whether to give these recordings a "mere time." In fact, the law is very clear, the amendment that we are going to vote through specifically states that the recordings will be kept until the end of their composition. Period. There is no mention of extending this time and maintaining these recordings throughout the ages. That's where different cultures come in. It has been said here that we cannot tolerate this mess, that we have tapes with laughter and crazy talk on top, and we cannot identify individuals. In the interests of democracy, this mess must be resolved in a moment, or on 1 March, these recordings must be deleted, there must be no tapes on Parliament's premises with laughter and untouched talk, which can be exploited, as Mr Martus said, for the purpose of manipulating. I am making it clear that this is not a serious story. These tapes have been here in this way, and they have been preserved in different formations, and I see no problem if it will be the same in the future. Trying to get behind it is that you see the archive doesn't want to receive these recordings, and since the archive doesn't want to receive them, they should be destroyed. I don't think these logics go together. Parliament maintains a wide range of materials and documents, and there is no question here. Just as the legislator determines, these things are. I am concerned about the symptomatic attitude that has been sought at times. On the one hand, it emphasises that this is the legislator and that the decisions that are central to the future of the Estonian state will be made in Parliament, with the Commission being the central body for political choices. On the other hand, attempts are being made to reduce all this, as if it were bureaucratic documents, central authority matters that need to be cleaned up. Our proposal is simple. Rait Maruste pointed out that Parliament's dignity was at stake. I say that such initiatives do not increase Parliament's dignity at all. In European countries, Mr Maruste gave an example of the Swedish Riksdag, the work of the committees and their openness are regulated very differently. We can find models in the wall here. I am concerned that with this rhetoric, when we talk about democracy, openness and the rule of law, we have recently gradually begun, as I said before, to make decisions in the Orwell style. Under the sign of the strengthening of the rule of law, in December we passed a law on the superviolentness of the members of the Riigikogu, on which the Minister of Justice in office had to state unequivocally that he did not support the law because it is absurd. The Minister of Justice gave his assessment of this matter as the highest authority in charge of the national legal order. With exactly the same rhetorical arguments, this law was pushed through here in December. Now we are in front of a new phase, just as with a seemingly noble story of democracy, openness, there is more information about what forms the basis of decisions just to push through a decision that is specifically stated in the amendment: the composition ends and the tapes are destroyed. Friends, there are things that don't make sense! It's one of them. Let's take a break with this bill. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance proposes that the second reading be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U82	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U83	Honor the President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by pointing out once again that the draft we are discussing has arisen by merging the draft laws of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Group of the Social Democratic Party with those of the same name. It is therefore very important for us that the principles of the Social Democrat democracy package, which provide for more openness and transparency of the work of Riigikogu committees, more substantive protocol and roll-call voting, are included in this draft. As a compromise, roll-call voting is included under the condition: in case someone requests it. We recognise that if, for example, a great many amendments need to be voted through, then roll-call voting can really lower the pace of work. However, in the future, the committees will have to involve those relevant stakeholders who were involved during the preparation of the draft and wish to participate in the debate. Stakeholders who did not participate in the preparation of the draft may continue to be involved. The regulation on sound recordings of committees of inquiry and committee sittings is combined in the draft proposal, as initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Right now, it's the sound recordings that give rise to more excitement. The current Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu does not deal with this issue at all. Therefore, their status and handling are completely anarchic. Each committee will deal with them as it sees fit. The position set out in the draft proposal that Commission meetings should be recorded, recording the meetings of all committees, and recording as a means of drawing up the minutes, is reasonable. From this point on, we should pay all our attention to how comprehensive the minutes of committee meetings should be. To put it figuratively, one extreme is a protocol that mentions what was discussed and decided, that is, as Kadri Samson said, an extended agenda. The second extreme is a verbatim. The minutes of the future should be the golden midway between the extended agenda and the verbatim, so that they really reflect the course of the debate and the formation of positions. From the point of view of historical memory, it is more important who thought what and how he voted than the scream of sound recording when someone has spilled coffee on his pants, for example. The protocol should be a 'noise-cleared verbatim'. The reason is to congratulate the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, who, in addition to numerous committee discussions, also called a working group of representatives of the political groups and lawyers of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, which held several meaningful rounds of discussions. In addition, the Soccer Group invited Mr Maruse to explain the draft also to our group meeting. In short, those who have had a genuine interest in the subject have had the opportunity to participate in various ways in shaping the current position. What happens if we don't pass the law? Then there will be anarchy of behaviour with sound recordings: some committees will record, some will not, some will keep the recording, some will not. Only the representatives of the interest groups who the chairman of the committee wishes to invite shall be invited to the meetings of the committee. The details of the committees' protocols will then continue to be wall-to-wall. This draft cannot complete the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, but must be improved in the future. In any case, the current draft is a step towards clarity and greater transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U84	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. There have been 17 amendments to the draft and we will examine them. Number 1 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. Number 2 is from Väino Lindel, the position of the commission is fully taken into account. Number 3 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. Number 4 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. Number 5 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. Number 6 is from the National Defence Commission, the position of the lead committee is essentially taken into account. Number 7 is from the National Defence Commission, the position of the lead committee is to be fully taken into account. Number 8 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. Number 9... Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U85	Thank you. On behalf of the IRL Group, I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U86	Thank you. Let's vote on it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 9, tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 47 members of the Riigikogu with 20 votes against and 1 abstention. The proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has therefore been taken into account. Amendment 10 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Amendment 11 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Number 12 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Number 13 is from the National Defence Commission. The lead commission has been fully accounted for. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going through the amendments, but there is too much noise in the Chamber! Amendment 14 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Number 15 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The commission has taken full account of it. Number 16 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The commission has taken full account of it. Number 17 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The commission has taken full account of it. The amendments have been examined. The Riigikogu Board has received a statement from the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union proposing to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act 820. We must vote on this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu 820. Please take a stand and vote. 23 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 45 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, the second reading is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U87	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on National Opera initiated by the Committee on Culture. Lauri Luige, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U88	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Cultural Commission brings before you draft law amending the National Opera Act 767. With the draft, we intend to amend the law on the National Opera by amending the provisions on the approval of the members of the National Opera Board, the term of their mandate, the liability of the members of the Council and remuneration. We also specify the type and content of the contract with the managing body and the responsibility of the Director-General of the National Opera. The purpose of the draft is to bring the law of the National Opera into line with the changed laws and the practice of the functioning of a legal person governed by public law, thereby ensuring clearer foundations for the management of the national opera. According to the current law, the council includes three members of the Riigikogu and two members appointed by the Minister of Culture, one Minister of Education and Research and one Minister of Finance. In addition, four members, appointed by the board of the Estonian Academy of Music, the management board of the Estonian Theatre Association, the management board of the Estonian Composers' Association and the management board of the Estonian Society. According to the current law, the Council shall approve the composition and convene the first meeting of the Minister of Culture. The term of office of the Council shall be five years according to the draft. The draft before you does not change the number of members of the Board of the National Opera or the list of appointing authorities and institutions. The draft, however, repeals the mandate of the Minister for Culture to approve the composition of the Council. The fact that the Minister of Culture approves the members of the Supervisory Board of the members of the Riigikogu appointed by the Riigikogu is not compatible with the nature and functioning of legal persons governed by public law. This is one of the reasons why there was a need to amend the law of the National Opera. On the proposal of the Committee on Culture, the Riigikogu approves three members of the council of the National Opera of the Riigikogu and at the same time appoints other bodies and organisations mentioned in the Act. The draft repeals the provision that the Minister of Culture shall convene and chair the first session of the National Opera Council until the election of the President of the Council. According to the draft, the first meeting of the Council will be held by the National Opera and the first session will be chaired by the oldest member of the Council until the President of the Council is elected. Under the current law, the Supervisory Board itself approves the terms and procedures for the remuneration of its members. However, we do not consider this to be a legitimate provision, which is why the draft sets out the level of remuneration and the conditions for the payment of members of the supervisory board at the level of the law. The draft stipulates that the operating costs of the Board of National Opera and the fees of the members of the Board shall be covered by the budget of the National Opera on the basis that the member's remuneration shall be half the minimum monthly fee per month and that the remuneration of the Chairman of the Board shall be one minimum monthly fee per month on the basis of attendance at meetings. The draft also lays down the grounds for the liability and discharge of a member of the Governing Council. The draft brings the regulation of the contract with the Director General of the National Opera as the governing body of the National Opera into line with the provisions of the Employment Contracts Act and the Law of Obligations Act. The draft does not entail any new budgetary expenditure or revenue. The law is designed to enforce s. a on 1 April. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U89	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Lauri Luik. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of draft 767. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 27 January.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U90	Our third item today is the first reading of the Bill amending § 48 of the Income Tax Act, which was initiated by the Estonian Central Party Group. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu member Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U91	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment to § 48 of the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Centre Party, includes a proposal that the employer's expenses in covering the costs of dealing with sports in an employee's or servant's staff should not be regarded as a special advantage. In doing so, we shall impose a limit that these expenditures shall not exceed EUR 500 per staff member or staff member in the calendar year. Expenditure must relate to the use of sports facilities or the organisation of sporting events, as well as to the remuneration for participating in recreational or health sports events. The calculations by the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work show that every euro invested in promoting health at work will give the employer a return of 2.5 to 4.8 euros. How, then, can the employer contribute more to the health of their employees? The idea of changing the special preferential tax is supported by the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Estonian Taxpayers' Association, the Estonian Company Sports Association and the Estonian Entrepreneurial Youth Chamber. The health status of a sports worker is improving, as are the ability of these workers to cope with their daily lives. An employee, employer and society in general will thus benefit, as the whole worker will not be a burden on the health care system. At present, the sports costs paid by the employer fall under the special advantage. The additional tax is payable if the company wishes to pay for its employees, for example, for participating in public sports events or for swimming pools. We are in a situation where the employer's investment in the health of workers is subject to an additional tax, while the investment in the machine does not go. The idea of an employer-friendly recreational sport being tax-free has been discussed several times here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. The draft of the Centre Party was already under discussion in this chair in 2009, but so far the initiative is in the drawer of the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu. At that time, we passed the draft law on 21 February 2012. It was just as much of a bill as it is now. This bill was passed at first reading in the Riigikogu in 2012 and then it was in the drawer of the Chairman of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu for two years. At the time, the Reform Party and the IRL were in the coalition. At least in words, our proposal was supported by the Social Democrats. On 13 March last year, Sven Sester, then Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, decided that this initiative had been planned long enough and now an initiative supported by the Centre Party, the Social Democrats and the IRL could still come to the second reading of the Riigikogu Hall and be passed by law. Unfortunately, the vote in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in favour of sending 5 members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs to second reading and also against 5 members, so this proposal is still in the chair's drawer of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Looking at these trends, it can be said that, as the only party, it is clearly opposed to the employer not having to pay a special incentive tax on expenditure on the health of its employees, the Reform Party. At the same time, several ministries have said that one of the priorities should be that the people of Estonia live healthier. Internationally, research is being carried out on the state of human health in one European Union country or another. One of these studies measures years of healthy life. This is the time of a person's life that is likely to pass without long - term health problems or chronic illnesses. According to this statistics, the number of years of healthy men living in Estonia is the smallest in the European Union. According to the latest statistics, if at birth we can expect an Estonian woman to live to be 82 years old and an Estonian man to be 72 years old, then without chronic health problems, only 57 years will pass for women and this is the worst figure in the European Union: 53 years. Several Estonian development documents have set the goal of improving people's health. For example, the People's Health Development Plan 2008 was designed by the Ministry of Social Affairs in the development plan to ensure that the average life expectancy of Estonian residents could be increased and the healthy life years could be 65 years for women and 60 for men. In order to achieve these objectives, it is said that a number of key prerequisites need to be met, including ensuring a health-friendly living, working and learning environment and promoting healthy choices and lifestyles. Nothing much has been done for that. Statistics show that in recent years, both men and women have experienced a decline in healthy life years. For men, they decreased by 0.9 years in 2012, i.e. by 53 years, and for women by 0.7 years. It is believed that this may have been due to the economic crisis, because people simply did not have the means to deliver them healthily. The lack of access to medical care is also considered to be one of the causes. At the same time, several programming documents say that poor health means lost money for the country. For example, the state's budget strategy for 2013-2016 states that the budget is in a better position if the life expectancy of Estonian people has increased. The vitality and quality of the population are characterised by average life expectancy and average healthy life expectancy. Poor health conditions have a negative impact on labour supply and productivity as well as on overall welfare growth. The impact of health in Estonia's GDP is estimated at 61⁄2%. Thus, the stake is 6 to 15% of Estonia's GDP! We have discussed several times in the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu why the Ministry of Finance cannot support the legislative amendment that all organisations representing employers are asking of the government. By extending the statements made by ministers and ministerial officials, the main reason seems to be the fear of losing tax money from the state budget. However, no specific bill can be provided to prove this, as, for example, the Praxis study shows that employers are currently simply not spending their employees' health. However, there is a hypothetical concept that if we give the employer an opportunity to pay EUR 500 per employee per year for participating in sporting competitions or using a sports facility, then there will be no real wage increase. If the net net income of a person is 500 euros a year, the employer should pay 314 euros in taxes. Thus, the Ministry of Finance has calculated that the possible damage to the state budget could be even EUR 17 million. Unfortunately, the fact is that such expenses are simply not incurred and the indicators of health behaviour in Estonia are poor. I also cannot agree that if a person cares about his or her health, he or she will run on freely available health trails. It certainly improves motivation to participate in health sports events, makes you take the first steps to exercise and think about your health many people who alone may not get on the forest trail or on the road to light traffic. That is why, at first reading, we have a draft law that will already be able to make it possible for employers to support the health promotion of their workers without tax penalties from 1 January next year. The law would enter into force on 1 January 2016, which would allow the budget for the following year to take account of potential shortfalls. I assume that both the IRL and the Social Democrats have not changed their minds and the Chairman of the Committee of the Social Democratic Party does not leave this bill waiting in the drawer for the elections of the Riigikogu, but there is a sufficient majority in the Riigikogu to become a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U92	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Kadri Simson! I would like to ask for a co-presentation of the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Mr Vasiliyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U93	Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft amendment to § 48 of the Income Tax Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group at the meeting of 15 December last year. The draft was presented by Kadri Simson as the representative of the initiators, and Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the positions of the Government of the Republic. I will briefly give an overview of the debate that has taken place. The impact of the draft was addressed, in particular in the context of tax receipts and persons' tax behaviour. According to the author's explanations, the employer does not declare separately the amounts currently spent to cover the costs of sport, which is why there is no precise source of information to assess the potential impact of the tax advantage. Declaration forms have been updated since 2015, which makes the data more distinguishable and therefore it is possible to highlight the costs of promoting the health of workers. So under this code, the cost of promoting workers' health, such as the use of swimming pools or sports clubs, etc., is shown by the employer as a special advantage. This would give the first opportunity next year to say exactly what the impact on the state budget will be. At present, the Government of the Republic relies in its forecast on the assumption that one third of the special advantages included in the Special Incentive Declaration are sport costs. According to this assumption, the EUR 11 million of the Circa would not be collected next year if the tax credit were introduced. The Government of the Republic notes, however, that this effect is likely to be greater, as the increase in the tax credit leads to the assumption that some employees' wages or future wage increases will be largely replaced by tax-free compensation. The Ministry of Finance also reflected in its comments the so-called equal opportunities issue, or the representative of the Ministry, that sports opportunities should be guaranteed in a uniform manner to all people, not to be made dependent on the opportunities and will of the employer. Children and older people should also have the same opportunities to exercise, so it is more necessary to support the opportunities available to everyone for engaging in sport at their place of residence. According to the Ministry, it is not money that often goes beyond wanting to engage in health sports. Health sports trails and light traffic routes are accessible to all and it can be expected that the change will not bring significant additional health athletes, rather it will diversify sports opportunities for current health athletes. The complexity of tax administration, i.e. the definition above all, was also addressed. There was a question of which particular sports could benefit from a special preferential tax or tax and social tax differentiation. The Government of the Republic decided not to support the draft at its meeting on 20 November 2014. The Finance Committee decided to propose that the Riigikogu stop reading the draft, and it was decided to allow ten working days to submit amendments, i.e. the deadline is on 27 January at 5.15 p.m. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U94	Thank you very much. Please, Tarmo Tamm, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U95	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Commission. What are the future plans? Will this bill still be in the drawer, or will we be able to do the second reading of this bill during this term?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U96	Thank you. This bill hasn't been in the drawer, so he can't stay in the drawer either. I'm going to go over the procedure that's gonna happen to the bill. The deadline for the submission of amendments is 17.15 p.m. on 27 January. By this time, amendments to this draft by all members and political groups of the Riigikogu are welcome. I'll see how the bill goes on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U97	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U98	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission. Of course, it is an unusually long deadline for amendments to be tabled, given the practice of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but that is for this. The government representative from the Ministry of Finance said that the government does not support the draft because there must be a level playing field for sport and that it must not depend on the opportunities of the employer. What is the alternative solution for the current government or the Ministry of Finance? Or what do these equal opportunities mean, not tax incentives, but equal pay, or something else? How, then, will this equal access to sport be ensured in a different way and better than is foreseen in this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U99	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U100	Thank you. I am now trying to convey the idea of the Ministry of Finance, which was presented to us, to the Commission. It seemed to me that the Ministry meant, by means of equal opportunities, that more should be invested in those sporting opportunities that are not very costly. I don't think they meant that all sports opportunities should become quite equal, because it never happens anyway. But it seems to me from the viewpoints of the Government of the Republic and the thoughts of an official of the Ministry of Finance that this is probably what both the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic have in mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U101	Thank you. I will ask for your opinion as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Did the state of funding for sport come to a wider debate during this debate? As Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, what do you think about whether the funding for sport is now transparent and well organised and whether this draft would improve or worsen the situation with regard to funding for sport?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U102	Thank you. We did not directly and thoroughly analyse the financing of sport in the Commission. I think it is by nature more the subject of the Committee on Culture. Certainly, almost all the committees are involved in the area of finance, but, in terms of content, I think, the issue of funding is more of a matter of the Committee on Culture. As a personal point of view, I can say that this situation in Estonia will probably be improved, and this will have to be dealt with in the future. Will the bill improve or worsen this situation? I think, not perhaps in detail speaking of a specific draft, that this tax credit could, at least in terms of health sports, have a positive background in society, and I think that the result could be rather positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U103	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Rannar Vasiliev. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party in Inara Luis.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will add so much to this debate that the Socialists have long had a desire and a desire to contribute more to people and to value more human resources. As we know, there has been a great deal of joy in many families in recent days, as family accounts have received the first major child benefits. We rejoice with their families and thank all those who send us good news! We also thank all the colleagues who supported this bill here in the Riigikogu, under the leadership of the Social Democrats. The Social Democrats are also going to the elections with the desire to obtain a mandate from the people in order to make greater investment in people, for example, whether by means of bigger and smarter family benefits or by means of a long-awaited dental care package. It's all an investment in people, an investment in human health. In addition, the Social Democrats have submitted similar draft laws several times in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. It has been our wish that tax incentives be made in such a way that the company has a greater opportunity to contribute to workers. Every worker in Estonia has a value in itself, so more must be invested in every person, just as it has been done in many Member States of the European Union. In particular, we would like to see tax-free investment. I think a lot of people have read the thinking book of the Development Fund, some may have just browsed it. The 2014 book sets out the bottlenecks of the Estonian economy and their solutions. One sentence there reads that one of the obstacles to the development of a company is the lack of human resources, both in quality and quantity. However, in terms of quality human resources, the quality of the workforce's health should not only be addressed by the qualifications of the workforce. Social Democrats have offered that companies would have the option of spending to a certain extent on health sports and health improvement for their employees without tax, which would also significantly improve the quality of their development. According to our proposal, employers will have better opportunities to invest in the health of their workers, so it can be expected that there will be an increase in the number of companies investing in health sports, disease prevention and medicine for workers. These steps will certainly lead to an improvement in the competitiveness of the staff of this institution, an increase in the number of people living in a healthy way and a reduction in morbidity. Such a legislative amendment would also reduce the cost of health insurance for employers and the state in the long term. In this way, we will give entrepreneurs a fair opportunity to support their employees in such a 'health insurance'. This tax exemption will provide a basis for improving the quality of the labour force and will provide people with more healthy lives for years. In the long term, we can see this as a support for growth. Such laws can improve human resources. In addition, social democrats believe that the cost of health sports and disease prevention is also the cost of paying for health services, reimbursement of medical expenses, the cost of renting sports facilities, the purchase of medical equipment, the payment of health care foods on the basis of medical indications prescribed by the occupational doctor, and the furnishing of rehabilitation offices at the workplace. This list is incomplete and this bill can be made even better and better. However, we are thus giving businesses the right to encourage people's health activities, exempt from tax. This certainly does not create the obligation of a bill that people should engage in all those sports that are carried out in swimming pools or sports halls. There will certainly be free sports trails for people to use freely. You can make a snowman in the fresh air now. The Social Democrats support this bill and agree that the first reading will be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-13_U105	Thank you. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of draft 755. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 27 January. Today's agenda is exhausted and the session is closed. I wish everyone a busy day. Closure of the sitting at 12 noon.
