ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U1	Our next item is labour market services initiated by the Government of the Republic... Imre Sooäär, is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U2	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, just before the vote, there was a procedural question that the President certainly did not notice about maliciousness, but obviously did not notice. I'm just saying this for the sake of the verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U3	Thank you. I'd be happy to take all the procedural questions, but let me know before you hit the hammer. Can we continue? First reading of the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Secretary of Finance, Sven Sester, please report to the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U4	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We are here late at night processing the draft law amending the Employment Services and Benefits Act and other laws, which bears the number 40. The purpose of amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and other laws is to create a refund system aimed at improving the situation of people working for low wages, as the IRL promised before the Riigikogu elections. Improving the livelihood of people with low wages is one of the five priorities of the coalition. The starting point for this draft is the idea that the state should not take income tax from those working who are already difficult to cope with their low wages. A system will be established whereby the State will make an additional refund up to the amount of income tax paid to the low-wage earners. The aim is to encourage people to take up work or stay on the labour market, even if the pay for work is low. As a result, employment will increase. The overall increase in the incomes of people on a lower salary also means that this money will return to consumption and boost the economy. And, of course, the increase in incomes for people with lower wages also reduces poverty and inequality. In order to prevent repayment from becoming a subsidy for work below the minimum wage, the refund will only be paid to people who work full-time for at least six months a year. And since only adults can work full-time under the law, only those who have reached full age in the year preceding the application can apply for a refund. This bill, when it becomes a law, will benefit people who work at least six months full-time a year and whose income will be less than three times the poverty threshold. These people are estimated by analysts from the Ministry of Finance to be close to 104000. In order to calculate the exact amount of the refund, the law contains a formula that takes into account both income and the number of months worked. The amount of repayment increases as income increases and is the highest at 480 euros of income and then begins to decrease so that the additional income of each euro reduces the amount of refund by 35 cents. This means that a person is always motivated to earn more income. All taxable income shall be taken into account when determining the refund, so that no person receiving, for example, dividends or business income is at the same time entitled to a refund for the recipients of low wages. The rate on which the refund is based, which depends on the maximum amount of the refund, is decided by the Riigikogu on a separate annual basis by the state budget law. We have estimated that this rate will be EUR 227 in 2016, which means that the maximum repayment in 2017 will be EUR 703 per year at the average monthly income of EUR 480, i.e. slightly less than two net wages. People whose average gross income is less than EUR 649 per month would be entitled to reimbursement. I would stress that this EUR 703 is the maximum refund and how much a person actually receives depends on the income tax paid by him or her, i.e. how much he or she has used tax exemptions, such as tax-free income in the case of another child or tax exemptions on interest on housing loans, donations and training costs. The Act will apply on 1 January 2016 and the refund can be applied for for for the first time in 2017 together with the submission of a personal income tax return for 2016. The refund is administered by the Tax and Customs Board and the refund is paid out in the same way as the refund of the more paid income tax is paid by 30 June at the latest. One objection that has been raised when discussing this bill is that it is harmful for a person to earn more than there is a minimum wage. I assure you, that is not the case. The formula is designed to increase the repayment from the minimum wage onwards, with an increase in income up to 480 euros and then to decrease by 35 cents per euro. Thus, it is always beneficial for a person to earn more. The second objection is that the employer and the employee agree, in order to increase the refund, that part of the salary is paid informally. However, such agreements can and will still be made to some extent in order to avoid taxes in the Estonian economy. The measure is administered by the Tax and Customs Board, which has the best opportunities to monitor income and wage levels and, with an overview of sectoral wage policies, can respond if patterns show an anomaly. It is certainly important to note that there is no additional benefit for the company as a result of the refunds. At the same time, the law lays down the principle that the employee and the employer are jointly and severally responsible for the refund received on the wrong grounds: although the reimbursement is received by the employee, the risk remains for the company which, if the informal or so-called envelope wage is established, has to pay the outstanding taxes and also compensate the country for the losses incurred by the fraudulent refund. An important hedging factor is also the annual income rebate that will only be made one year later. Thus, a person who enters into an agreement with an undertaking that the undertaking does not pay him or her an official salary at one point in time risks losing more than he or she is able to win with a tax refund. The estimated cost of the amendment in 2017 is 37.8 million, which is taken into account in the country's budgetary strategy. The cost will also be at the same level in the coming years, as the statistical poverty threshold will rise along with income growth. Overall, it would be a law that significantly improves the situation of those who receive lower wages, reduces poverty and supports economic growth, which is also the most important objectives of the government coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U5	There are questions for the waitress. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U6	Thank you, manager. Minister of Finance! The livelihood of low-paid workers is certainly a problem, but the way it is solved is completely incomprehensible and wrong. An increase in the minimum wage, an increase in the income tax-free minimum or progressive income tax would help. According to one Austrian economic professor, the share of the shadow economy in Estonia is more than a quarter. Many companies and entrepreneurs formally pay a minimum wage and the rest is paid in an envelope. I ask: will the country now pay a bonus at the end of the year for people who cheat on the country every day and drive around in a luxury car?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U7	Thank you. All international organisations have said that we are taking too much income tax from low wage earners. This is stated by all international organisations that have given Estonia some guidance. This system is designed to enable people working for low wages to be reimbursed part of the income tax they have paid. If you're asking me if I should raise the minimum wage, that's a whole other issue. The country is not a part of this. However, this measure is specifically designed and very clearly targeted at low-paid people and, thanks to its pointed edge, it is very effective. I would like to set aside, as an example, a reduction in income tax, which, in itself, clearly also reduces the tax burden on labour. By its very nature, this is not a bad measure. Or a general increase in the tax-free minimum, which is very clearly affecting all people. But given the state's resources, we should always look at how to manage these resources as efficiently as possible. Who of us would not want to see a situation where the income tax-free minimum, which we have just discussed when discussing the previous draft law, would be higher than EUR 205 still want. Of course we do, but it costs real money. You always have to look at your options and make decisions as a result. This measure is well targeted at the low-paid, and I would say that it is therefore very good in terms of efficiency. This money is directed at those who need it most.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U8	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary of Finance! We have been trying for years to overcome the status of low-paid Aboriginals, and we have succeeded in doing so. However, the draft in question does not direct the person to serve any more; it may be more beneficial for him to receive a lower salary. Does this not mean, in the strategic plan, a decline due to state aid, for which we have been warned over and over again by the Reform Party? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U10	Thank you. No, it's not like that. The formula is made in such a way that the more a person works, the more he will be repaid. The current minimum wage is EUR 390, next year EUR 410, but the maximum refund will be EUR 480 for the salary. As wages increase, the repayment will increase. Yes, his repayment will decrease from a certain amount of salary, but his gross amount will increase. So there's always a person's interest in increasing his income, and I don't share those fears with you. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U11	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U12	Thank you, manager. Good minister! The Government Union has also been before Parliament in the past with drafts that have not subsequently been implemented in society or have not had a positive impact. But since your response is much more cultural than your predecessor's, my question is friendly: is there a reason for bureaucracy or something else that the payout is made once a year, but not every month?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U13	Thank you. The question is friendly and very constructive. This is very reasonable because it is possible to ascertain the difference between monthly payments and annual payments. We've discussed payments in both ways over time. At the moment, as you can see, the government has brought you a bill on the table with annual payments. I think that in both ways it would be possible to highlight its pros and cons. Since there are annual taxes on the table today, I will certainly mark that there are technical questions about the reimbursements, and if a person works in several places, then there will be a bunch of technical questions about who will pay him a monthly refund. That would certainly have been one question, but there would have been others. Finally, the coalition reached that agreement. The issue of possible envelope salaries is certainly also on the agenda. In the case of annual reimbursement, the pressure on possible envelope wages will clearly decrease. There are quite a number of arguments, up to the point that several analysts have said that in the case of monthly repayment, the money like this will fade away from the use of a word such as dispersion. When making tax returns during the spring session, after all, in the spring, one particular higher refund is presented, it gives people most directly affected by the change, i.e. low-paid people, the opportunity to make one-off larger expenses. People have to make them sometimes, but they just don't have the money to do it. There are therefore a number of reasons why the government has put forward its idea as such a clear, simple, understandable system with tax returns. It will certainly be easier for all parties to use it in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U14	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U15	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, I want to ask what we're dealing with. When I read the bill's explanatory statement, there's talk of a refund. You're talking about a tax refund. When I read paragraph 3 of the draft explanatory memorandum, 'Content of the draft and comparative analysis', it says here that repayment is essentially a grant. Colleagues have understood this as a pay-as-you-go payment on previous issues. If this is a refund of income tax, I understand that this is some kind of implementation of the tax-free minimum that has been implemented in reverse. What is it, then: is it a grant or is it what we are talking about, a tax refund?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U16	Thank you. I guess it would be easier for me to say that it doesn't matter what the cat's name is, as long as it catches mice. But I'm sure you wouldn't be satisfied with that answer and I wouldn't be satisfied with that answer either. In essence, it is a support mechanism. However, this support mechanism is linked to personal income tax, how much it has paid over the course of the year. It is a support mechanism: the state supports and does not charge any additional income tax on it. All support mechanisms are exempt from income tax. At the same time, the system clearly interacts with the income tax paid by the person during this period.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U17	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I'm afraid that cat doesn't catch mice. The circle of beneficiaries of repayment is limited by quite a number of features and the administrative burden is likely to increase. The issue of ombital wages has rightly been raised: it may be useful for an employee to show a lower salary in order to be part of this circle of returnees. Here's my question. Tell me, is the simplicity of our current tax system no longer a value? Why not increase the tax-free rate instead? In the case of the previous draft, you were quite proud that it would rise to 205 euros, but in fact, over the years, this increase is still very insignificant and does not even meet the promises made by coalition parties before the elections. Why so complex and clumsy again?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U19	Thank you. I'm gonna start from a distance, and then I'm gonna get lonely from the general. I do not agree with you that this system is complex. In fact, there is nothing complicated about this system. In real life, this means for a low earner that when spring comes next year, he will make a bird in the right place when he completes his tax return. That's it. He has no other obligation to prove anything. Nothing complicated! Algorithm and computer! The computer calculates everything you need, nothing complicated. Now, when we talk about why we should not use the existing EUR 38 million that this measure will cost in order to raise the tax-free minimum for everyone, the answer is very simple. The implementation of this proposal would not provide the effect that today's draft aims to achieve, which is directed precisely at the segment where it is most needed. With an increase in the tax-free minimum to 205 euros, all will achieve a certain increase in income, including you and the speaker in front of you. However, the impact of the 40th draft is very clearly targeted at the low-paid. And notice what the country can do with EUR 38 million. This is clearly a cost for the State, so it's profit for someone else. Since the measure is specifically targeted at people who earn lower wages, we are creating a situation where the State does not give money to the recipients of medium or higher wages under this measure, but the low-wage earners who sit there at the minimum wage sit at EUR 500, we can practically repay their entire income tax. Look, this is an extremely cost-effective measure!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U20	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U21	Thank you very much. Honourable answer! I would also rely on the taxation and remuneration of low-paid people and on what they receive as a tax refund. To some extent, and in certain circumstances, the amount of the salary linked to the tax refund may reach zero. How do you plan to motivate employers to raise their wages beyond the tax refund limit so that this does not happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U22	Thank you. It's a mutual interest. It is also the employer's interest that his employees are motivated to work and participate in the labour market. And on the other hand, it's also employee interest. Every time he reaches a higher wage level while still in the low-wage sector, it is beneficial for him. I would like to point out that this upper limit is at EUR 649 so that we know what corridor we are talking about today. The employee always has an interest! Please note that there is no classic contradiction here that your next euro may create a situation that you have no interest in earning this euro. Under this system, the employee has an interest in obtaining additional euros as part of a monthly salary. However, the employer's interest is always that his employees be competitive on the market, so that workers do not go away, so that workers receive equal and fair wages in their sector. And if you notice, with this measure, we will be able to alleviate the situation in a particular sector. By giving the low-paid people from the state budget back their income tax, we are creating a situation where the contractor obviously wins, and that is crucial.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U23	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U24	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good speaker! That's how I figured this low-paid thing was like a loan to the state. And you said in the preceding recital that the state doesn't have any money. The black scenario is that there is simply no money for repayment at the Treasury by the end of the year. What happens then?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U25	Good questioner! It was such a question that I do not know what construction led to the hypothesis that at the time the spring tax return was filed, the country might have a situation in which it would not be able to make this refund. I assure you, a good questioner, that the state's liquidity reserves are certainly such that 38 million, which is the price of this measure, can always be paid out. What else can I say? I assure you, this money will certainly be there, and there will be no such bad situation. The State must fulfil all its obligations vis-à-vis third parties. And these obligations are not only related to low-paid people, there are other obligations. People working in the public sector must be paid a salary, as must contracts with third parties. The country's monthly commitment palette is actually very broad, and that means more than what is needed for this specific measure, at a price of 38 million. I assure you that if we pursue the monetary policy that we have been pursuing so far, so that our revenues and costs are clearly under control, we will not see such a situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U26	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Such an emotional question, not a numerical one. If a person receives EUR 800 or EUR 1000 per month, he or she will contribute a little more to the country, not a little more, but twice as much. Why does the state give such a good gift to someone who might be doing a less qualified job? Why does the state meet a man, and basically I have to pay for it? If a person asks you, how do you answer him?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U28	Thank you. This is about solidarity. Very right, very good question! That is the question of what measures we want to provide for which sectors. This is our joint decision if we want to implement this measure. Don't forget that very right, this 38 million is taxpayers' money, your money, my money and many others' money, as we talked about in relation to the previous draft. And that's our decision. Just as with the previous draft, if we do, and why shouldn't we? It will also be our decision when we say that we will channel this money to those who need it most. Just as we have made decisions about child benefits, just as we are making decisions about disabled people, just as we are making decisions about income support, these are our decisions about the use of taxpayers' money. We say that we want to channel money to have a third child born into our families, that is our decision, that is our decision on taxpayers' money. We want to channel money to EUR 130 to increase income support. That, too, is our decision if we take it. These are our decisions, too, our decision that we want to channel money to those who need it the most, and according to our understanding, it is precisely those people who need this money with the possibilities of this budget who will receive EUR 400 per month, EUR 500, EUR 600, to 649 that will go. Although it could be said otherwise that EUR 5 or EUR 10 is EUR 5 or 10 each time, for them, EUR 100 is considerably higher in terms of their net salary than for the person who receives EUR 1 000 or EUR 2 000 per month. That is what we are going to do with this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U29	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U30	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Minister! You mentioned the previous draft law here, and in this connection I would like to express the opinion that it would help the low-paid people most if the government proposed a systemic solution to how productivity could be increased in Estonia and therefore wages would increase. But that's it. There was also talk about the simplicity of the tax system, and you said that this system was very simple. It's just an algorithm, that's all. I would really like to understand this coefficient of 0.35. What's that? Where and how did it come from? Just open it up for us!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U31	Thank you. Since we are talking about the triple poverty line, this 0.35 coefficient is very clear from there. We are on the move to a triple poverty line with this measure. Today's poverty line is about EUR 200, 205, if I am not mistaken. Here it comes. Three times the coefficient, so we're also going to base it on a triple basis, or in the order of magnitude, one third on the basis of a coefficient.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U32	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U33	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear Minister, As we know, the advisers and analysts of our Ministry of Finance are highly qualified specialists and, consequently, I expect that an analysis has also been carried out in order to find out how much the administrative burden of the Tax and Customs Board will increase in order to control compliance with this law and prevent the formation of a shadow economy. Mrs Josing, Director of the Conjuncture Institute, has also pointed out this danger. These are very serious problems that have been addressed. How much will it cost to manage this system and what do you personally think it is feasible? And if analysts have figured it out and this assessment happens to be wrong, will no one be responsible again?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U34	Thank you. Monika Haukanõmm on behalf of the Estonian Free Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U36	Five plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U37	Ladies and gentlemen, Poverty is a major problem in Estonia. The growing concern about wage poverty requires the country to take decisive steps. The topic of poverty, including labour poverty, was also highlighted by the Estonian Human Development Report published last week, which said that the proportion of poor workers is increasing, that poverty is of a lasting nature and that it lasts for a long time in almost half of the cases. The draft on our table today has set very ambitious targets. I'll read them out so you know what I'm talking about. Firstly, to motivate unemployed people of working age to also accept low-paid jobs and to keep these people permanently on the labour market. This draft will have a positive impact on the economy, boost the labour market, increase domestic consumption, increase income for low-paid people, reduce poverty and pressure on the social system. Allow me to seriously question the realistic nature of the objectives set. Once a year, the state will pay the person basically a grant to increase income. However, this refund cannot, unfortunately, be applied for by all low-paid people. Only a person who is at least 18 years old and who has worked full-time for at least six months in the previous year can apply for the allowance. Of course, it is a welcome concession that the full load can also come together as the sum of several part-time work. You can apply for the allowance if you earn up to 649 euros per month. I asked my question where this figure was taken from. Why is this the limit above which a person is no longer on low wages? The Minister said that calculations have been made, but in fact, the whole question is still the money that exists in the budget, not the real need and the effect. Let me give you an example. If a person has earned a gross salary of EUR 500 per month for 12 months and received a dividend income of EUR 1000, he or she will receive a refund of EUR 274. Yeah, it's undoubtedly a pretty good one-off extra money for the recipient, but in the big picture, this family doesn't do better all year round. This bill will cost EUR 38 million. At the same time, it will also be accompanied by the high costs of setting up and maintaining the system that will inevitably be incurred. We are talking about the costs of the Tax and Customs Board, which are one-off. For example, EUR 1.56 million and other permanent costs, which are around EUR 561000 per year. In addition, a number of people are employed: at least 10 people at the Tax and Customs Board and one at the Ministry of Finance. The draft on our table is undoubtedly a incomplete draft and a partial solution that does not help to achieve the objectives. I will bring out five of the biggest bottlenecks that have already been mentioned in the Chamber today. Firstly, both international organisations and the state itself have said that it is important to bring into the labour market all people who are able and willing to work, while taking into account the particularities and needs of people, the situation in the labour market and the ability of employers. For years, there has been talk of the need to use flexible forms of work and the need to encourage part-time work. Now, however, there is a bill on our table, according to which only those who work full-time can apply for a refund for low-wage earners. You cannot apply for part-time work, persons with high maintenance load, persons with partial or lack of working capacity, persons with health problems or simply people whose employer does not have a full-time job. This restriction is discriminatory and it is not in line with other national policies, such as the labour capacity reform, which attaches importance to the contribution of people to their abilities, i mean the parents of young children, etc. It doesn't matter whether a person works six months full - time or half - time, the sum of the sum may do the same. Even the Minister admitted that this was the subject of discussion. Secondly, a person who is of age and who worked full-time for at least six months last year can apply for a refund. When a young person turns 18 on July 2, he or she cannot apply for a refund. Right, a child's job is learning, and he doesn't have to go to work as a minor. But when a minor has gone to work because of circumstances and can't be otherwise, it doesn't seem right or fair that he or she has no right to apply for a refund. Thirdly, the family of a low-paid worker needs support for daily living every month, not once a year. The amount that is currently on our table as a one-off bonus is not conducive to long-term livelihoods and job creation and maintenance. Yes, of course, it provides an opportunity once a year to make one-off higher spending, but the complex and costly system that is being created does not ensure that the target is achieved. Fourthly, in the future, it will be useful for the family to make separate tax returns, as one can then, for example, apply for a tax credit on children and the other a refund for low-paid people. Of course, from this point of view, the most useful thing is to earn EUR 480 per month and better if there were no children, the amount of the refund would be higher. The more kids, the less money you get back. Single parents are the biggest losers. Fifthly, of course, the proposed system facilitates the payment of envelope wages, and this has also been pointed out by the Institute of Economics. People's livelihoods are much better promoted by raising the tax-free minimum to, for example, EUR 400 per month or by linking the measure to the minimum wage. Raising the tax-free minimum is much more costly, but it has an impact. People with a sum of money would get a month's extra money. All these are more understandable combinations than the complicated, weird combination we have on the table today. We cannot in any way support the proposed draft, because it is an artificial monster that does not allow the objectives set to be achieved and does not guarantee better livelihood for the low-paid. Consequently, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I propose to reject bill 40, i.e. the draft law amending labour market services and benefits and other laws at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U38	Helmen Kütt as representative of the Social Democratic Party, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the explanatory memorandum, the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and other laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic at first reading, aims to establish an annual refund system for low-income earners. The Social Democrats certainly believe that it is an important task for Estonia to reduce poverty and all the measures that will enable it to be achieved must be taken seriously. It is particularly sad that although the economic situation in Estonia has improved, the absolute poverty rate for children has not reached pre-crisis levels. In 2008, it was 7%, in 2012 it was 9.5%, and unfortunately in 2013, according to Statistics Estonia, 10.1% of children, i.e. one in ten, lived below the limit of absolute poverty. Universal child support and need-based family allowances for families in particularly difficult economic situations will certainly help against child poverty. It is also helpful to raise the income support limit from the current 90 euros for the first family member from 2016 to 130 euros. In 2015, there was a higher need-based family allowance: 45 euros per month for a single-child family and 90 euros per month for a family with two or more children. It would also be necessary to record that in 2004 this allowance was EUR 9.59 for a single-child family and EUR 19.8 for a family with two or more children. In March 2015, a total of 4226 families received needs-based family allowances. Of these, 1316 families, or 31% of all families who received needs-based family benefits, were those where someone worked. In 2012, 18.7% of the Estonian population lived in relative poverty and 7.3% of the Estonian population lived in absolute poverty. Sadly, there are those in work who live in poverty even though they work. In 2012, despite employment, 5.9% of employees lived in relative poverty and 1.4% in absolute poverty. Social Democrats are concerned about § 372 of the proposed text, entitled to apply for a refund. This paragraph introduces a time dimension of six months and a condition of full working time. The aim of the employment capacity reform is for people with special needs to work even with part-time hours, and for those with these criteria, this measure of support for low-wage earners as if it did not apply. I'll give you an example. If a person has worked for six months on a minimum salary and full-time basis, he or she has the right to apply for a refund, but a person with a special needs who has worked for 0.5 hours of work cannot do so. At the same time, taxes are also paid on part-time work according to the minimum wage. The Social Democrats do not consider these criteria to be justified and consider that the draft must definitely be amended before it is adopted. The comments of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry point out that a system where the benefit is linked to the salary paid to the person and the amount of the allowance depends on the size of the salary may lead to a risk of abuse of the measure and a tendency to pay envelope wages. This is definitely an option. However, the more people on the labour market who acknowledge that their current salary will depend on their future pension, the more those who are not willing to work for an envelope salary. The size of the official salary of employees, not the envelope wage, is also important when applying for loans and, for example, in guaranteeing student children's student loans. In addition, the risk of envelope wages is reduced by the fact that the system is administered by the Tax and Customs Board according to the draft, which still has sufficient opportunities to detect abuses of the refund system. Nor would I like to believe that there are many dishonest people among our entrepreneurs and other employers who are willing to risk damaging their reputation by paying envelope wages. The Social Democrats believe that poverty brings people out of poverty a normal wage for work, which ensures livelihood and enables them to cope without reimbursement. I quote Estonia's Human Development Report 2014re2015. 'The victim of the trap of the average wage as a whole is the Estonian economy, whose journey to the next stage of the international value chain is laborious. " The preservation of Estonia as a cheap sub-supply country is well described by the latest manifesto of the Estonian Employers' Confederation. I quote: 'We have spattered out of the poor countries, but before we catch up with the rich, the momentum has slowed. The average income trap, explained, means we don't want to do cheap work anymore, but we don't know how to do expensive yet. 'If draft 40 amends the criteria for natural persons, especially in view of people with special needs, the Social Democrats are ready to support the adoption of this draft as a law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U40	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed ending the first reading of the draft 40, but since the Estonian Free Party has proposed rejecting the draft at first reading, I will put it to the vote. I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Free Party to reject the draft law amending labour market services and grants and other laws at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. Nine members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 50 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting 40 amendments. a 5 June at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U41	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Addressing the problems of low-paid people is certainly an extremely important issue. But if we look at the company that's on the minimum wage, it's also company owners, estimated at about 50,000 citizens. They pay themselves the minimum wage in order to optimise their tax costs and receive benefits from the health insurance fund. They take out their income as dividends. Do you not think that it is extremely unfair for the rest of the low-paid people to pay a certain amount to them once a year?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U42	Thank you. Of course, this danger is also the reason why the whole task of administration and the subsequent transfer of funds has been assigned to the Tax and Customs Board. After all, the Tax and Customs Board has an overview of all people's taxable income. The Ministry of Social Affairs has an overview of the benefits, while the Tax and Customs Board has income. And since this bill is very clearly linked to man's taxable income, it is wage income, dividend income or other income, this task is assigned to the Tax and Customs Board. I do not think that the workload of the profession is increasing enough to make further administration impossible. The income tax refund discussed today depends on the person's taxable income, but all these incomes are automatically recorded in the electronic accounts administered by the tax administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U43	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U44	Thank you. We are now opening such a general philosophy issue, and I do not mind that we are debating it. I guess that's where general philosophy is at times. But we can say the other way around that our good fellow Members from the Centre Party have been in the elections every four years for years, but have not been in the government for a long time. The question is, why are they running? You can ask them why you're running, you haven't been in the government for the last eight years. Actually, I don't think it's right to ask like that. They have their own voters with their own thoughts. However, this is the same as asking me why I believe in the correctness of this measure. Yeah, I do. I think that this measure is aimed at the right sector and that it is the most effective measure. The more we can channel public money on a need-based basis, the better I would use this word here, there is nothing to be ashamed of, the better. We don't have any oil fields around here, although in the meantime it was said that oil had to be found in Hiiumaa. I think it was a joke. We do not have unlimited resources, we live in limited resources. And if we live in limited resources, we need to think very clearly about how to make the most of taxpayers' money. I am sure that this measure will achieve maximum efficiency. If we were to distribute this 38 million in such a uniform layer, so-called butter, to everyone, then we would be able to raise a little bit the overall tax-free rate, including you and me. I don't think that would be effective. My belief that this idea is working and that the measure is directed towards the right sector still exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U45	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U46	Good President! Good waitress! As I understand it, a low-paid person who earns a certain amount still has to apply for a refund. Doesn't it seem to you that it causes psychological tension or depression in this applicant? He gets a label on his forehead that he's low-paid and earns a little money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U47	Don't take it like that! I think it's the other way around. Let's look at it differently. If a person is currently filing a tax return, it says that if he wants to get a refund from the state of either training expenses, donations, mortgage interest, children, second or third child, and the associated state, he or she will not only have a personal identification number but also have a child, etc. He's making an application like this, and I think it's normal. This creates a proper relationship between the applicant and the State. The state will give back taxpayers' money. There's nothing weird about that. In summary, it's you and your computer, and I don't think it's gonna create any negative emotions. This is the taxpayer's money that a person is seeking in this way. This money has been paid to the State in the form of income tax and the State will give it back. I think it would rather create a much better relationship between the applicant and the state. This makes matters clearer on the legal side, and it is also good for the sake of regularity. Man clearly senses that this is his relationship with the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U48	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, If you take into account all the benefits that a person has in this measure, it means that you also take into account the benefits that are paid to him for children, for example, or the income tax refund, for example, on children's training allowance. On the other hand, this means that this measure could be regarded as child tax. If we take one person who gets 500 euros and has no children, he gets more money back than a single parent with two children.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U50	Thank you. There's one thing I'm going to do right now so we can understand it the same way. Grants are not taken into account as no tax is levied on the aid. We are only talking about taxable income. However, it is true that if you have received income tax on the basis of any measure, it will be taken into account. Grants are not taken into account, but different tax refunds do. And that is very right, because the clear aim of the draft is also to direct people to the labour market by giving them the opportunity to recover the income tax paid on wages. There are different measures. There are measures that support the birth of more children in Estonian families, measures that help people who need income support. This measure is specifically aimed at ensuring that people also have the incentive to work for a small salary. When a worker enters the labour market, he automatically begins to pay social tax, which means that the state receives a certain amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U51	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! A person whose monthly income does not exceed EUR 649 can apply for the allowance under the draft. If he earns more than one euro, he won't get it. The amount to be repaid would be zero. It can therefore be concluded that, as a draft directive, you have decided that the low wage limit is 649 euros. I'd really like to know how you got that result. Why set the limit at EUR 649 and not, for example, 600 or 700? What analyses preceded this? Did you analyse this and also take into account the salaries paid in different sectors?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U53	Thank you, President-in-Office. Thank you, speaker! This bill in its various variations has received all sorts of interesting nicknames among the people. Was there a debate in the Commission on what name this law might be called?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U54	I think the shortest option would be the law on repayment. In reality, it's very simple. Before this, there was a discussion and a question was asked why such a law was needed in the first place. The Minister forgot to say one basic thing: if a person now receives a small salary, he often has to go to the municipality to trade for benefits. If this bill is adopted, a person has the opportunity to receive a slightly more decent amount once a year, so he may not have to spend every month on the municipal door. And if you listen to bank analysts, they have made it very clear that it is precisely the time of refund of income tax that low-paid people can afford to buy larger purchases. Putting something aside from pay every month is very difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U55	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Good first speaker! Please tell me, if there was a debate in the Commission on this draft law, what were the problems or issues that caused the most excitement and debate, and on which different opinions were expressed. Your review made it sound like everything was very consensual. Was there a debate in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U57	Of course there was a debate. For example, they asked whether this bill would also cost the state budget. Of course, it's a cost. If anything is paid out, it's always cost, income comes from taxes. At the same time, however, what is paid out has been taken as income tax on the income of people who have been transferred to the Treasury. Nobody takes that money from third parties. The question was also asked whether it could not be that employers did not want to raise their wages. I can say that I myself am an entrepreneur and I own a lot of companies, and sometimes it's sad when I can't pay a good salary in a few months, because that's not the kind of return. The Estonian minimum wage currently amounts to 390 euros. In the event of the adoption of this draft, the best wage number for the reimbursement is EUR 480. This could encourage companies to review their options next year, so that people working on a minimum wage can raise their wages around EUR 100. According to this law, the people who receive the EUR 480 tax refund would receive the most.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U58	Thank you, dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Marika Tuus-Laul Centre Party, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U59	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is true that there is a problem in Estonia, and it is a very serious problem with pay poverty. Even Estonia's average wage leaves people in a poverty trap, not to mention the minimum wage. The draft government coalition we are discussing here, as if trying to reduce poverty by introducing an annual income tax refund for the low-paid. However, this is actually poverty support, which must be specifically applied for. According to the Centre Party Group, wage poverty can still be reduced only by higher wages. Between 2008 and 2012, for five years in a row, the minimum wage stood absolutely at EUR 278. It has now risen to 390 euros. In a very large number of European countries, the minimum wage is EUR 1000. I do not want to compare the standard of living in Estonia with that in Germany, but in Germany the minimum wage was raised to 1500 euros this year. For the period up to 2013, the ratio between the minimum wage and the average wage has been significantly improved by Latvia, Poland and Slovenia, for example, but many others. Speaking of the minimum wage, the commentary on the Constitution clearly states that the minimum wage should be such as to ensure that the full-time man and his family have a decent living. If, according to the IRL and the entire coalition, it is more appropriate to spend tax money on repayments, we think it would be better to raise the state's tax money and wealth by raising wages. We can see that it is only in this way that people's livelihoods and, of course, the feeling of self-defense will start to circulate more money and produce new money. We are very surprised that the Reform Party has gone along with the type of poverty support that produces new poverty. After all, it is clear that a higher salary helps to start the Estonian economy, stop emigration, brings jobs back to Estonia. In addition, a person still wants to get a better salary, not expect any repayment once a year. We talked a lot about the exponential growth of the minimum wage before the elections, and the Social Democrats also talked about it. Indeed, the question arises as to why you are now willing to knowingly retain low-paid jobs, freeze wages and encourage envelope wages. Why do we want to remain a cheap underground forever? An employer isn't that interested in raising wages. For example, 1 June Business Day points out that they believe that this bill should be suspended. This is because it favours envelope wages where part of the salary is legally taxed and part is not. The loss of tax money due to envelope wages has only been reduced due to the establishment of a work register and the submission of 1000 euro bills, and now this risk is rising again. By the way, Rein Lang, a reform party, recently made it very clear that the scheme introduced by IRL stimulates the payment of envelope wages and creates a situation where it is more beneficial for an entrepreneur to pay a small salary that does not take society a step further. As you know, three months ago the Centre Party made a collective appeal to the Riigikogu to its composition. The proposal is to significantly increase the minimum wage. The Ministry of Finance did not support it, but it made an overview on which we can rely in many ways. It said that the minimum wage is quite small in international comparison in Estonia, both in relation to the local average wage and in terms of purchasing power. We know that purchasing power is one of the smallest in Europe in Estonia. The review said that raising the minimum wage above the comfortable level for businesses could contribute to positive changes in the economic sector in the long term. It also mentioned that wage increases are, of course, the engine of the economy and that higher wages mean fewer social benefits. Of course, we note that any measure aimed at reducing poverty is welcome now, and that is why, of course, we are voting in favour of this draft. We will not vote against it. At the same time, however, we find this step highly questionable and primitive. In fact, it does not reduce poverty, it produces more. With one hand, we repay the poor, but with the other hand, we double the money back, raising fuel oil and other excises. Economically,'reverse' progressive income tax is, in our view, nonsense, because it does not increase the responsibility of the wealthier and does not take back this money from above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U60	Thank you. Yes, I will. I do, and in this respect, the draft law contains a very clear concept not only of wages but of all income that is subject to income tax. If a person receives a notional salary of EUR 500 per month, but withdraws dividends in any period of time, we are talking about an annual period, or whatever its payouts are, but let's say that in a year, 1000, 2000 or more euros per month, this is all his taxable income. And it all counts. Counting, there will not be a situation where a person has a monthly salary of EUR 500 and a dividend income of EUR 10 000. The formula shall account for all taxable income.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U61	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Why doesn't the refund extend to part-time workers? Your colleague, the Minister of Social Affairs, is trying to kick off the employment reform and finally launch it and, for example, in the case of disabled people, part-time work may be the only way to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U63	Thank you. Today, the bill on your desk says it's possible to work part-time. The sum is rounded up by month, all part-times are taken into account. You can work part-time. Let's say you're a janitor or some other job, whatever these jobs are, 0.4 or 0.5, and you have two or three jobs. Well, it's possible to work together as much as you can. The specific question is whether to extend it. At the moment, the criterion is that working part-time, you are obliged to receive this "unit 1" in a calendar month, so that the amount of part-time work can total full-time. The second condition is the six-month condition. This is the subject of negotiations. There is a need to discuss what would be the cost of extending the regulation in such a way that there is no obligation for a calendar month to shift the work load to 1.0, but there would be an obligation to work at 0.8 per year, for example. That is the subject of discussion, and I think it would make sense for Parliament to hold this discussion. At the moment, there is a clear view on the table that you should still have worked full-time in a calendar month. This is a measure by which the government coalition hopes to stimulate people to work full-time. But the discussion is welcome. If you find that any changes could be made, I think this is definitely a topic to debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U64	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U65	Thank you, manager. Minister of Finance! I'll come back to the envelope logs. Mr Erki said that there may be 50,000 of these people, but perhaps 5 000 of these 50,000 dividends will receive a maximum of 5 000. According to this logic, 45,000 will be rewarded by the state for being paid in an envelope. How can this be ruled out? That's not normal, is it? The second thing is that this salary will probably be optimised: set somewhere close to the upper limit and agree between the employer and the employee that the rest of the salary will be paid by the state. How can these dangers be avoided?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U66	Thank you. The first step is to look at who will benefit from the specific measure. I would remind you that this measure is a specific beneficiary contractor. He benefits, not the employer. This may be the first thing. Secondly, if the employer and the employee want to agree on something that is not legal, it is still possible. That is why the Tax and Customs Board has drawn up risk analyses of these patterns in order to determine whether or not the situation in some sector is out of pattern. However, a number of measures relating to a person's salary, ranging from maternity and unemployment insurance to pension, are currently motivating. All of this depends, in reality, on your salary. I'm sure it's a nuance. The administration of the Tax and Customs Board, which I have already pointed out, is also important for this measure. The IRS monitors the wage levels of sectors in our country, and all the administration that the bill provides for goes to his shoulders as well. I think it's an important nuance. As I said before when I answered one of the questioners, the annual payment reduces the risk of envelope wages. Surely a monthly payment would increase this risk. There is now an annual payment and this clearly reduces the risk that envelope wages will be agreed. Indeed, the designers of the draft law have actually assessed the levels of risk and the situations discussed have been minimised. Once again, I stress that if the employer and the employee want to conclude non-legal agreements, it is the duty of the tax administration, on the one hand, to block these agreements as the legislator and, on the other hand, as the executive.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U67	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In answer to my first question, you merely stated the fact that this administration would go to the Tax and Customs Board. It makes perfect sense. How much it's gonna cost, of course you didn't say that. But that's it. As we know, the content of this draft is one of the electoral promises of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union, with which all these months were re-run. If we look at the election results, it is quite obvious that the voter did not give this idea a mandate. This was reflected in the party's election results. Why do you still want to push it through with such conviction, although by the evening of 1 March it was clear that this idea was not popular among your constituents? This has led to a relatively poor result, but you also want to get out of your way. Why are you so convinced of this idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U69	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, My question, in its own way, continues the question that sounded a little while ago in this Chamber. There's an IRL grand assembly on Saturday. As the Government has supported this draft, I also assume that one candidate for the presidency, Margus Tsahkna, will support this draft. But can you tell me how Jaan Männik, the other candidate for chairman, feels about it? And if it doesn't bother you, why don't you tell me how the preparations for Saturday will smooth and how many votes will Jaan Männik get?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U70	Good questioner! These questions were not discussed in the Commission and, unfortunately, Mr Männiku was not present at the session to express his opinion. Unfortunately, I can't answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U71	Thank you. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U72	Thank you. That's a good question. And, of course, we took out at the Tax and Customs Board on a sector-by-sector basis, what kind of income deals people are in, how many are in one or the other income deal. But, of course, in the end, the budgetary possibilities will still be put in place. If we had proposed another figure instead of EUR 649, 749 for example, the reimbursement would have been reduced by that amount. We've reviewed our budget options. Looking at the budgetary possibilities and looking at this workforce on the basis of the information received from the Tax and Customs Board, we reached the conclusion in our calculations that the refund already paid to this EUR 649 per person is relatively small, practically non-existent. If you notice, this line goes down hard, and it's clear that it's quietly reaching zero. However, it is very important not to create a situation where a person has no interest in earning an additional EUR 1 or EUR 10. Yes, as you may have noticed, the formula is that by earning each euro the refund will decrease, but the monthly amount transferred in absolute terms by earning each additional euro will still increase. If the budget had allowed us, we might have taken on an even larger group with the draft. I recall that the IRL vision was much more ambitious, involving a much larger group of people. We are now talking about the size of 104000 people; in the first stage, we meant more than twice the size of the human group. But here is the question of budgetary possibilities. When you read the coalition agreement, you will see that in the coalition, everyone has had to make some steps back in their plans to avoid overcoming the real possibilities. However, it is crucial that the point of a specific measure is targeted specifically at people earning up to EUR 180 more than the minimum wage and the minimum wage. The focus of the IRL was, in fact, on this one during this whole negotiation period, which was the most important thing for us. If there had been a desire to grab over 200,000 people, we would have reached the 850-euro earners. We are based on real opportunities, but we have managed to keep the focus on those who need it most.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U73	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm a little confused. You have stated here with great certainty that such a bill will encourage employees to earn more and employers to pay better wages. But I have read that according to the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, support for low wages does not necessarily motivate people to earn more and then work more. Will our Chamber of Commerce be wrong and not understand the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U75	Thank you. Let's see what life brings. But I think this measure will work. I think it's focused exactly where it needs to be. I do not want to question the opinion of any group of experts. But it's based on different assumptions and bases. As one of the authors of this idea, I myself used to base a wide variety of attributes a year earlier. To whom should the measure be targeted? How is he supposed to get to work? Is the effect as expected? Is there a risk of some kind of pay-per-view getting stuck? Is one risk or another justified or not? Is one or the other risk materialising or not? We, the authors of the idea, believe this system justifies itself. We will see at one point, I would emphasise once again that it would be the most efficient use of public money if it were directed towards this sector. But it's time to discuss it. I hope that we, who we are, are right about this idea, and we can see that this measure offers real relief and does not get stuck in these decills. Life will show.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U76	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U77	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. One sentence was that you focus on supporting a low wage. Do you not think that there will be a situation where an entrepreneur does not have an incentive to raise employees' salaries?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U78	Thank you. I said in one of the previous responses that we do not believe that this incentive should disappear. There's no reason for that. But the victory in the form of the refund of low-paid people is the victory of employees, it is not the victory of employers. But when looking for a job, the employer competes with other employers in the labour market. Either he finds people with the qualifications he needs or he doesn't. In general, we do not think that this should lead to a situation where employers have no incentive to pay better wages. There's always that motivation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U79	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U80	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You have stressed very strongly in answering previous questions that you are the developer of this idea and that your entire party is behind it. In this regard, I have the question: how do coalition partners view it? Has their attitude been unambiguously supportive since the beginning, or have there been critical arrows? And are there differences of opinion within the IRL?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U81	Thank you. I would stick to this bill, and I wouldn't go into a long, wide-ranging dissent, whether there are differences of opinion, and if so, what they are. I'd rather make a remark. There was talk about the previous draft, remember, also about the visions and proposals of the taxpayers' union. I'd certainly hurt others if I took all the credit either for myself or for the IRL. Last year, Lasse Lehis contributed very much to the development of this draft, albeit in a slightly different wording, but the idea was to focus on low-paid people. He has contributed very much to the development of this idea, its impact on the calculation and interpretation of whether or not this measure would work. At this point deep bowed to him, he made it pro bono. Lasse Lehis considers it right that the measure is targeted precisely at the sector that needs it, given the financial capacity of the State. So I wouldn't take the credit for myself or the party, it's been teamwork, where experts are involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U82	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. On behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs, I would like to ask Mr Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U83	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, In the Committee on Social Affairs, the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and other laws was discussed in 40 two sessions. On 26 May Sven Sester, Minister of Finance, Aivo Vaske, Deputy Secretary-General of Taxation and Customs Policy of the Ministry of Finance, Dmitri Egorov, Chief Specialist of the Tax Policy Department of the same Ministry, Marko Talur, and Legal Adviser of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Kadri Kurvits, were also invited to the meeting. Sven Sester presented to the Social Affairs Committee a draft law amending the Employment Services and Benefits Act and other laws. The aim of the draft is to introduce an annual income tax refund system for the benefit of low-income earners, whereby the state supports these people in improving their living conditions and encourages them to start working. The annual reimbursement of low-income earners provided for in the draft is a support measure for persons of adult full-time permanent employment. Its aim is to encourage people to take up employment or stay on the labour market, even if the remuneration for work is low. The Minister explained that the person who was at least 18 years old, worked on the basis of an employment contract, worked full-time in a calendar month and fulfilled these conditions for at least six months was entitled to a refund. People who would have a refund of EUR 0 because of the amount of their income will not have the right to apply for a refund. In such a case, it is not justified to grant the person the right to apply for a refund; he would not receive a refund anyway. The maximum amount of refund is the amount of income tax calculated on the basis of the income tax return of a natural person, which is not refunded to a person on other grounds. Training costs, mortgage interest, etc. are considered. The amount of the refund shall be based on the national budget, taking into account the minimum subsistence rate and the minimum monthly fee. The refund is applied for at the same time as the natural person's income tax return is submitted. Upon the entry into force of the Act, applications for reimbursement can be submitted for the first time in 2017 together with a tax return for 2016. The refund shall be paid by the Tax and Customs Board by 30 June of the year in which the application is submitted at the latest. The Minister noted that, if the draft was adopted, the income of the low-paid would increase as if the tax-free allowance had been paid. Above all, this is a social impact, as it increases people's incomes and improves their livelihoods. Recovery will expand the potential of a large number of consumption and savings. The refund system thus contributes to increasing incomes for low wage earners, reducing poverty and supporting economic growth. Members of the Commission asked questions, and I hope that they also received exhaustive answers. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 3 June (the decision was consensual), that I be appointed rapporteur (the decision was consensual) and that the deadline for amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 5 June. This decision was also consensual. On 28 May, it was decided to propose unanimously the completion of the first reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U84	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U85	We are going to the last item on today's agenda: First reading of the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. The rapporteur is Margus Tsahkna, Minister for Social Protection. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I wish you a beautiful Estonian flag day! I will try to answer your questions for so long that we can go together to raise the flag at 7:00 on Estonian Flag Day. Now let's get down to business. The Government of the Republic has initiated the amendment of the State Family Benefits Act and the related amendment of other laws Act 38. According to this draft, in order to improve the livelihood of families with children, the child allowance for the first and second children will be increased to EUR 60 per month and every three and more children's families will be supported by an additional EUR 200 child-rich family. According to the draft, from 1 January 2016, the amount of child benefit is EUR 50. From 1 January 2018, the amount of child benefit shall be EUR 55 and shall increase to EUR 60 on 1 January 2019. The amount of child benefit will not change from the third child in the family and will continue to be paid at EUR 100 per child. A new family allowance will be created for families with three or more children: a family allowance paid to families with at least three children who are entitled to child benefit. The current parental allowance for a family of seven or more children will be abolished as a separate type and integrated into the support for a family of children. As a result, the amount of allowance for a family rich in children is differentiated according to the number of children in the family. For a family raising three to six children, it is EUR 200, for a family raising seven and more children, EUR 370. If the bill is adopted as a law, the cost of family support will increase by EUR 14 million in the state budget in 2016, by EUR 28,4 million in 2018 and by EUR 42.8 million in 2019. The grants paid from the state budget to a family rich in children amount to EUR 20.6 million in 2017, EUR 41.3 million in 2018 and EUR 41.3 million in 2019. The costs of adopting the draft will be covered by 2016/2019. The 2010 budgets. The draft is planned to enter into force on 1 January 2016. As I said, there are two objectives: one is the universal increase in child support for the first and the second, and the other is the new family allowance, i.e. support for a family rich in children. The latter must help ensure the economic viability of families with three or more children and motivate families to have third and more children. In 2019, when this law is fully in force, a family with three or more children would receive EUR 420, a family with four children would receive EUR 520, etc. This is an important increase in child benefits for families with three or more children, most of whom are currently living at risk of poverty or below the poverty line. Even if both parents work. I hope that the draft submitted by the Government of the Republic will receive support from the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U87	Thank you. Minister, you made such a thorough and good presentation that the members of the Riigikogu do not have any questions for you. But still, there is one question. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U88	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Dear Minister, Quick question. The coalition consists of three political parties, two of which define themselves as right-wing. So there should be a method of force for the majority. My logic and that of many others says that we should help people who really cannot take care of themselves, who need the support of the state. Why spend five euros on a plane for everyone if it is families that really need it that can help? What do you think of that? Are you on the right or on the left?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U89	Thank you. The answer is on your question, where you stated that the coalition is made up of three political parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U90	Thank you. No further questions. As a representative of the Social Affairs Committee, I would like to ask for a presentation of the Chair of Helmen Hunt.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U91	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On Thursday, 28 May, the Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act and related amendments to other laws 38. In addition to Minister for Social Protection Margus Tsahkna, Katre Pall, Head of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, participated in the debate. As the Minister introduced very thoroughly the grants proposed in the draft law, I will focus on the questions raised by the members of the Committee on Social Affairs during the debate on this draft. I think it's the hall that cares most. The Commission was interested in how child support has actually reduced child poverty to EUR 45 this year. The Head of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that child poverty is monitored every year in the framework of the development plan of the Ministry of Social Affairs. It was asked whether the Ministry of Social Affairs had carried out analyses of what subsidies should be, in order to eliminate the in-depth poverty of children in the first place or to bring them as close to the minimum as possible. The representative of the Ministry explained that this had been considered in connection with the preparation of the Green Paper on family allowances, services and parental leave. It has been calculated how much it would cost to eradicate absolute child poverty at all. The combined impact of the amendments proposed in the draft is expected to reduce the absolute poverty rate for children from 10.1% in 2013 to 7% in 2019. Among other things, the question was whether a family with three or more children would be considered child-rich in the future and whether the benefits and benefits of the current family of seven or more children would apply from three children. The reply explained that the change would remove the parental allowance for a family of seven or more children as a type of family allowance, which would be integrated into the allowance for a family of children. Support for a family raising seven or more children shall also be established as a fixed amount. The draft has introduced the new term'support for a child-rich family'. A family with three or more children up to 16 years of age or up to 19 years of age in the case of secondary education is considered to be a child-rich family. As far as the private sector benefits are concerned, they cannot be prescribed by the State. The person making the benefit will determine how large families and to whom he will grant the benefit in the first place. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U92	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U93	The members of the Commission expressed the opinion that instead of raising 5 euros, the cost of raising the allowance could be covered by children's schools or hobby groups so that the child could get something real for this money. According to the Head of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the initiation of the draft is the result of a government agreement. From the point of view of family policy, it is important that both are guaranteed: children's schools and hobby groups are covered and families also receive additional support. Members of the Commission also asked about support for children growing in replacement homes. If a child in a substitute home, or orphanage, studies in a row, he or she will receive the allowance until he or she reaches the age of 26 to graduate from the university. However, in the case of guardianship, young people aged 19 years receive support until the end of the academic year and no more. The possibility of proposing an amendment within the framework of the same draft law was examined in order to equalise children and young people in custody with those who grow in a substitute home. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained that the child in the orphanage, or the child in substitution care, does not receive any family allowance at all. The financing model is different and it is set out in the Social Welfare Act. As early as the end of 2004, the Ministry of Social Affairs prepares the concept of parental careless children, or replacement care. Whether to support children who have been without parental care and have been in custody should be asked in the context of the discussion of the concept of substitution care. Equalisation with family benefits in the proposed way is not possible. The Commission proposed to increase the limit for the payment of family allowances to 20 years of age. According to the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the proposal is positive, but the cost of the state budget is up to EUR 200000 per year. Members of the Commission were also interested in why the support of a single parent child had not increased and whether this increase had been discussed. The Head of the Social Security Department considered that increasing the support of a single parent child would be very effective in reducing child poverty, but it also has negative consequences because there is a possibility that another parent simply does not go to the birth certificate. The Ministry of Social Affairs is currently active in the maintenance fund. The intention to draw up a draft is now under way, which is to be submitted to other ministries for coordination during the summer. Finally, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 3 June, in fact, it is already on 4 June, so that we are moving by a date, appoint Mr Kütt, Member of the Commission, as rapporteur and propose that the first reading be stopped. These were all consensual decisions. It is also proposed to set the deadline for amendments at 4 p.m. on 5 June 2015, which was a consensual decision. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U94	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Heljo Pikhof as representative of the Social Democratic Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U95	Ladies and gentlemen, Let the new coalition be called a perseverance union, as offered by the Prime Minister, or otherwise, one thing is certain: perseverance leads to the goal. For the second time in the government coalition, we have been able to do something tangible for the children. With great perseverance, the Social Democrats have stood up for social democratic values both in the opposition and in the coalition. Otherwise, the first thing in the coalition agreement was not to repair families with children. This priority is a great pleasure for the social democrats, but poverty in families with children has been one of our greatest concerns and issues of work. I believe that many of you will remember the night sessions in December 2013, when the coalition found that the coalition merely hastened the night sessions to raise children's benefits. But all the studies in Europe and Nordic experience show that the birth rate is higher and that families with children are less in poverty in countries where everyone is paid equally well-known family benefits, where the country is doing its part that can provide the services that children need. It is true that we have a development plan for children and families until 2020, where it is clearly stated that every cent we contribute to children today will bring us back much later. I am talking about the health of the population, about education, but ultimately about economic development and about the country at all. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The important thing is that child support continues to rise. Support for the first and second children from EUR 19 to EUR 45 at the beginning of the year will increase to EUR 60 per month over four years. A child-rich family allowance of 200 euros per month will be paid to a family with three or more children. The idea of our so-called smart child's support will also come true. Together, we will develop a system to support children's enthusiasm and sport. It is likely that these measures will be calculated, discussed and evaluated in this way, and some consider them to be low, the other to be low, as well as raising the income limit and income tax-free minimum to reduce poverty, and additional income tax refunds for low-paid people. These measures also help children first and foremost. After all, families with children are at greater risk of poverty than others. In addition to supporting recreational education, a number of other family services are to be made more accessible. This is good because experience in the rest of the world shows that services for families with children are effective and effective. Good fellows in the back of the hall! A long - known truth is that single - parent children are growing at the greatest risk of poverty. Estonia, however, is a member of the OECD's top five countries in terms of the number of single parents: more than one fifth of our children, about 56000 children are raised in single parents. According to Statistics Estonia, 23.4% of households, made up of one adult and one child, lived in absolute poverty and slightly more than 40% in relative poverty. There are also children living in deep poverty in families with one parent at the most. The truth is that thousands of single parents have been left on their own to catch the wind in the field as they try to get some money for a child from another parent. Doesn't help the worm or gunpowder here, not even the court settlements with the fillings, if the man who owes a living still doesn't want to pay. It is not a matter for parents to demand maintenance, it is confirmed by international conventions. The maintenance requirement is absolute. Here too, the state must put on its shoulders and create a transparent mechanism that fits Estonia's circumstances. The example is taken from almost all European countries. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U96	Please, extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U97	We very much hope that the goals of family policy, which has reached the coalition agreement, will lead to raising children's benefits, guaranteeing kindergarten places, creating a living support fund, reconciling parents' work and family life, and some more, will lead to a situation where people's children and their parents are growing up here and now feeling dignified and even more confident and that many families want to raise their second, third and perhaps fourth children in their own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U98	Thank you, dear waitress. As for Jaak Madison, please! Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U99	I wanted to ask the honourable rapporteur a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U100	Question time is over, we have a round of negotiations and we can ask ourselves questions within two minutes. That's what Mr. Madison doesn't want. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of the draft 38 be completed. First reading of the bill is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. a 5 June at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for your contribution so that we can go home safely in white. I'll see you tomorrow, which means 10:00 today in this room again. Closure of the sitting at 03:59 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U101	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 44 members of the Riigikogu were successful in checking the attendance of Question Time, and 57 members failed to do so. Today, Minister of Defence Sven Mikser participates in the duties of Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur and Minister of Social Protection Margus Tsahkna. Yesterday, 13 members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask a question today. As a result, I will give the questioner the opportunity to submit one additional question and one additional question can also be submitted from the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U102	The first questioner is a member of the Riigikogu Henn Põlluaas. The question is for Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser. Henn Põllamaas has arrived. Please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U103	Yes, thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Russia is not aware of its international commitments and violates almost all international agreements and conventions, but Estonia nevertheless wants to ratify a new border agreement between Estonia and Russia, which is not necessary, harmful and constructive for Estonia, because the new border agreement allegedly strengthens our security. Would you explain how the agreements between Ukraine and Russia prevented the aggression of Russia and the occupation of Crimea? Latvia has already concluded a new border agreement with Russia. Is this why Latvia's relations with Russia improved and are better than ours? I would like to ask for concrete facts and examples of what Latvia's national security in today's geopolitical...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U104	Question time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U105	... better guaranteed and stronger than Estonia's security!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U106	Ladies and gentlemen, please manage in one minute. Tighten up a little!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U107	Thank you. Honourable questioner! Estonia is certainly a country that respects international law and also respects all bilateral agreements. True, wars and aggression are still taking place in the world. Any such act of aggression committed by one state against another sovereign state certainly violates more than one principle of international law and mostly violates a number of previously concluded agreements. However, this does not mean, in my view, that we should give up international agreements, whether bilateral or multilateral. In particular, with regard to the possible future ratification of the border agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation, I am convinced as was the case with most of the members of the previous Riigikogu, that the existence of a bilaterally agreed state border does not in any way undermine the security of the Republic of Estonia; rather, it creates the prerequisites for better security protection. Of course, ratification of the border agreement is a bilateral process. The previous Parliament decided to move in parallel with the Russian side in time. We know that the working hours of the previous Riigikogu were exhausted before the Russian side caught up with the ratification process. This means that this composition of the Riigikogu must start processing the law on ratification of the border treaty again from the beginning.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U108	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U109	Thank you. Latvia has already concluded a border agreement. I asked what aspects and how the security of Latvia is better ensured than the security of Estonia. Please give examples and concrete arguments for comparison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U110	Thank you. I think that this issue has been greatly simplified. The security of the country depends on many factors. Certainly one of them is also the existence of a border with neighbouring countries, especially when political relations with a particular neighbouring country are not known as cloudless. At the same time, national security, of course, also depends on how much this country invests in its national defence, how much and how it invests, for example, in the security and protection of its 'natural' border. So the security of the state and the security that citizens feel depend on a great many aspects. It certainly cannot be said that the existence of a ratified border agreement would somehow hinder Latvia in international communication, whether in bilateral relations with Russia or in other international relations. At the same time, it is clear that the existence of the border agreement and the ratification of this agreement will certainly not eliminate all the differences between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation, just as the border agreement did not eliminate the disagreements on very many political issues between the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U111	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U112	Thank you. Honourable performer! I understand that signing the border agreement may come overnight, which depends only on when Russia intends to signal us and invite us to sign it. As an elected representative of South-East Estonia, I have a question. What's your message to the Setus? They have been fighting for years to ensure that part of Setumaa, which remains on Russia's territory, still comes to Estonia's so-called border control area, Estonia. At the moment, it seems that this issue is buried, that the issue of the Setus is no longer being dealt with, and that the border agreement can be signed at any moment. What do you say to the Setus in this hall today who have been fighting for years to get their ancient lands back?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U113	Thank you. First of all, answer your first question. Certainly, ratification of the border treaty will not take place overnight. After the border agreement had been initialled at the level of executive power, it was given the Riigikogu to deal with the ratification law. During the previous composition of the Riigikogu, this passed the first reading of the bill and then fell out of the procedure due to the expiry of the working time of the Riigikogu. The previous Riigikogu did not complete the ratification process precisely because Russia had not moved at the same pace as its procedures. I assume that, although I cannot speak on behalf of the Riigikogu here today, that the current composition of the Riigikogu could follow the same principle. As far as territorial claims are concerned, by ratifying the border agreement, both parties will certainly recognise the progress of the border line, as it has agreed. In fact, however, the Republic of Estonia has also expressed a lack of territorial claims against the Russian Federation on several occasions before, despite the fact that we have not yet ratified the border agreement as a bilateral one.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U114	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U115	The next question is for Home Secretary Hanno Pevkur and the questioner is Küllik's Hatter. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U116	Thank you. Good minister! The European Union is, you could say, a little confused about solving the problem of migration, and the European Commission has set quite high demands on Estonia. I have this question: do and which acts of the European Union, including the Treaties, say that the migration quotas imposed on the Member States by the Commission are compulsory? In other words, in a simplified way: is compliance with the migration quota legally compulsory and, if so, on what basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U117	Thank you for your question. Of course, in order for the European Commission to come up with such a proposal, they must also look at its legal basis. When speaking about the legal basis, we must, in turn, see that we have two proposals from the European Commission on the table. The first proposal concerns resettlement, i.e. the Commission's wording of resettlement, and the second one concerns relocation or relocation. Resettlement involves persons resettled from third countries to the European Union, as proposed by the Commission. There are certainly a lot of questions about this legal base. The Commission itself knows this very clearly. The debate on which legal basis would be appropriate will certainly continue in the coming weeks. However, there is no clear consensus among the Member States here either. Estonia believes that the principles of compulsory resettlement cannot be respected, which means that resettlement can only take place on a voluntary basis, in agreement with the United Nations Refugee Organisation. In the case of relocation or relocation, the European Commission has made very clear reference to Article 78 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union: 'Where an emergency situation arises in one or more Member States as a result of a sudden influx of third-country nationals, the Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission, may adopt provisional measures to support the Member State (s) concerned. The Council shall act after consulting the European Parliament. ' It is a co-decision with the European Parliament. Completing this provision means that the European Council must approve the proposal made by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U118	Thank you. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U119	Thank you. On what basis is the Government of the Republic of Estonia going to build up its arguments? Are and what are the possibilities for the Riigikogu to participate in the decision-making process?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U120	Thank you. Estonia is shaping its position, in particular on the basis of a proposal from the European Commission. Of course, we also take into account the legal base, both European Union law and our national law. As far as the opinion is concerned, I already have debates with the political groups. Today, I was in their group at the invitation of the Socialists, and I will also go to the Reform Party Group to talk about this. If the other groups want to discuss this matter with me further, I am open to it. Our codecision process on European Union affairs provides that if the Government of the Republic is to shape a position, it will come to the Committee on European Union Affairs. According to current information, as far as I know, the Committee on European Union Affairs will discuss the position of the Government of the Republic on 12 June, or next Friday.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U121	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U122	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Based on the example of Vao village in Väike-Maarja rural municipality, we can conclude that until now the central government has been guided by the principle that refugees are moved to one village or settlement in Estonia. If Estonia now has to accept over a thousand refugees, how will you proceed? Are all these people distributed to villages across Estonia, or are they distributed individually across Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U123	Thank you for your question. This is indeed one of the most important questions on the substance side. Before we do, of course, we would like to argue with the European Commission about their proposal. We have concerns there regarding the methodology for calculating the quota or the migration key. If you come to your question specifically, it depends very much on how the evaluation of these people is agreed with the European Commission, i.e. the 'process', whether they can come to Estonia or not. When talking about relocation, it is true that if this procedure takes place in Italy and Greece, after these people arrive in Estonia, regardless of whether there is one or a thousand of them, they do not need to move to the reception centre. Perhaps the so-called Vao village is not concerned, but it is the task of the state, especially the Ministry of Social Affairs, to negotiate with the municipalities. Of course, municipalities must be prepared to allow some refugees to settle in different municipalities across Estonia. As is the case now, but simply with the difference that in the current process people move from Vao village to another place. The last example of quite recent practice was when a family in Ukraine went to live in the municipality of Rannu. So in this sense, cooperation with and agreement with local governments is important. My understanding is that whatever the number of refugees is and whatever the solution of the Mediterranean crisis is, these people are now going from Vao village to other Estonian municipalities in cooperation with their municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U124	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U125	The next question is for the Minister of Defence in charge of the Prime Minister, Sven Mikser. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U126	Thank you! Dear Sven Mikser, you are here today in the hands of the Prime Minister. That is why I am asking today about the draft cluster law to be discussed in the Riigikogu, which was also sent to the Riigikogu with your approval. This is because several taxes are being increased at the same time, but one social tax is being reduced, so in two years' time, the share of health insurance will be 12% of the gross wage instead of 13%. After all, this means a significant reduction in health insurance. In the same law, you promise that this reduction will be compensated by other revenue from the state budget. I would like to know what kind of income compensation is being made for health insurance. Is there, for example, an increase in excise duties on fuel used, even though this money, by its very nature, should be used to improve the road situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U127	Thank you. Indeed, if what was agreed in the coalition agreement materialises, social tax will fall from 33% today. While the Tax and Customs Board currently transfers 13% of this to the health insurance budget 15 days after the social tax has been collected, 12% will be transferred in the future, plus 1/12 more. Overall, this means exactly the same amount on the euro and on the cent as would have been the case at the moment for similar receipts. As far as other revenue from the budget is concerned, this compensatory part of the budget cannot be linked specifically to any specific revenue line, just as the lion's share of the budget's expenditure is not actually linked to a specific revenue line, i.e. the collection of a fixed tax. So, unfortunately, this question cannot be answered from this point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U128	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U129	Thank you. Dear Sven Mikser! With these tax increases, for example, the Prime Minister is clearly caught. Before the election, he lied if he denied wanting to raise excise duty. But here's another problem. Before the elections, a major pre-election debate on health care was held at the North Estonian Regional Hospital on 17 February. The coalition was represented there by Urmas Kruuse, Eiki Nestor and IRL Tiit Meren. All three promised that health expenditure would have to be raised to 7% of GDP. Can you explain how this promise made before the elections will now be fulfilled if the social tax is reduced instead?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U130	Thank you. Indeed, social tax will be reduced. We know that the OECD recommendations to Estonia include, among other things, a proposal to reduce labour taxes. It is true that the OECD Recommendation focuses primarily on reducing labour taxes for people earning lower incomes. It can be said that point 2 of the Coalition Agreement, which concerns an increase in the tax-free minimum, is moving in this direction. But unfortunately, without taking part in a specific pre-election debate, I cannot comment on exactly what anyone said there and whether these promises are meant to be fulfilled. I can tell you that I was directly involved in drawing up the coalition agreement. I can therefore confirm that, despite the reduction in the social tax rate, it was agreed clearly that the social budget, the pension insurance and the health insurance budget should not be reduced as a result of this tax reduction. Therefore, it is precisely the reduction in the health insurance budget resulting from the tax reduction that will be compensated in full. So I can certainly confirm that there is no basis for the rumors that there would be a reduction in the budget for health insurance in the event of a reduction in social tax. My humble request or suggestion to you, too, is not to spread such rumours.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U131	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U132	Thank you. Honourable Mr. Mixer! I'm still scared of lowering social security contributions. The latest Human Development Report has very seriously highlighted the problem of the social trap of a large number of Estonian people. We are withdrawing money from health care, and this percentage is going to be lower, but we know that health care is already underfunded, and that money should actually be added. Even if you say that the amount remains the same and you compensate for the missing part, it is still not enough, because the medical queues are long and the availability of medical care leaves much to be desired. Why should we believe that this missing amount will be compensated? Before the election, you promised it, this and that, but didn't tell me where you were taking the money. After that, the excise came up. You're telling me the money's coming, but you're not telling me where it's coming from. Say it. We know that economic forecasts have gotten worse. Where's the money coming from? An Estonian person wants to know this: we do not believe another word.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U133	Thank you. I guess the question's been asked. Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U134	Thank you. You will be working on the same package of laws today, to which Kadri Simson, the previous questioner, referred. There you can also see the additional sources of revenue provided for by the government coalition in order to finance both those expenditures that come into the state budget under the Coalition Agreement and those revenue reductions that result, for example, from an increase in the tax-free minimum or from a reduction in social tax. In fact, you know all these additional revenues, starting with a faster increase in excise duties on alcohol and tobacco than previously planned and ending with, for example, an increase in excise duties on fuel. However, as I said in reply to Kadri Samson, these individual cost lines and income lines are generally not linked. This means that it is not possible to say that child benefits are rising as a result, for example, of an increase in excise duties on tobacco, or that a national maintenance fund is created, for example, through a faster than previously planned increase in alcohol excise duties. Therefore, both the revenue lines and the cost lines must be viewed in aggregate terms. However, I do not think it is reasonable or responsible to incite fear of it as if this change would lead to a reduction in the health insurance budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U135	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U136	The next question is to Mr Tsahkna, Minister for Social Protection. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U137	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Minister! I have a question of supporting women's crisis relief centres. As we know, there is one in every county of Estonia, and in some places even more than one. They all operate in the form of a non-profit or a third sector and receive public funding. They used to get money from the Gambling Tax Board, but now they get it directly from the Ministry. I understand that this was your predecessor's decision, but in 2015, the funding has been extremely strange. Namely, Tallinn Women's Crisis Home applied for 81000 euros, received 40000 euros, which is less than in some other centres, such as Võru was awarded 45000 euros. At the same time, almost half of all so-called served women go to Tallinn Women's Crisis Home. Why is the centre serving the most people financed in proportion to the smallest money, and are you going to change this system?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U138	Thank you. Firstly, I am pleased that, for two years now, women's crisis centres have been funded precisely from the state budget, through public budget allocations, no more project-based funding. This amount was EUR 430000 in 2014 and EUR 500000 in 2015, plus EUR 200000 from the Norwegian Financial Mechanism Programme. As far as a particular case is concerned, these decisions have indeed been taken earlier. The Ministry has based the distribution of these resources on ensuring that the work of women's crisis centres and their services can be provided anywhere in Estonia, as this is a very important issue that concerns our people. In particular, the application for the Tallinn Women's Crisis Home was EUR 81766 from the 2015 budget and EUR 40000 was allocated to them, while the Norwegian Financial Mechanism programme adds EUR 13682 for psychological and legal counselling. This is the state funding. There is also another service provider in Tallinn, NGO Ene and Post-Syndi, which has received 17000 euros from the state budget. This represents a total of EUR 57000 for this region. If we look at the activities of a particular centre, Tallinn organised a two-year contract procurement in 2014, but this same women's crisis home, for example, did not participate in this procurement, although it would have been possible to obtain additional funds from it. In the end, I would like to say that it is particularly important that we ensure that women from all regions of Estonia have access to the necessary assistance and the means that...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U139	Thank you, Minister. The answer time is up. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U140	But I'm still asking you to answer the question! If almost half of all people who turn to the crisis centres of Estonian women are served in one centre, they cannot have as little costs as they are in Võru or Viljandi, for example. What is the basis of this logic, and are you going to change it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U141	Thank you. We can certainly review the burden on crisis centres. However, as I said, municipalities have given crisis centres the opportunity to apply for additional funding. This particular crisis centre did not participate in the framework procurement organised by Tallinn. This possibility also exists that municipalities contribute themselves. Tallinn is a large municipality in Estonia and has been ready to contribute. So I advise you to cooperate with the local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U142	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U143	The next question is to Mr Tsahkna, Minister for Social Protection. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Refugees, refugees, have already arrived in Estonia, and they will probably get here more. All these people come from another cultural space, they need help in organising everyday life, getting an education, etc. How do you assess the ability of the Estonian social system to provide such support services to these people? Is there a shortage of something, and what is most lacking?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U145	Thank you. The question is very important, but at the beginning of the answer I stress over the opinion, which has also been held by the government, that we must first clearly state our position that the Estonian state must be able to decide voluntarily how many refugees come here and who they are. When we talk about real reception capacity, we must also be able to take care of the refugees we receive. These tasks are clearly set out in the law. We must ensure that they have housing and compensate for housing costs for at least two years. We must provide them with language training, which is very important in terms of integration. While they do not yet speak the language, translation services must be provided. All these people are also entitled to the support services of the Estonian social system. This readiness, which we have, is certainly not right now within the framework of the quotas and plans that have been submitted to Estonia as a proposal. Rather, we appreciate our reception capacity in dozens of people. But the more important question is whether Estonian society is ready to receive such a large number of refugees. Here I value the very importance of the fact that this decision must be discussed by the Estonian state and the people. This decision must be voluntary, because from history too, we can see that all the decisions that have been imposed on us have immediately caused very serious opposition. This is no longer about the capacity of our social system.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U146	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U147	Thank you. The European Union has currently offered EUR 6 000 per person to be relocated. How do you estimate the amount of this amount and what services could be offered for it? Would it be possible for this sum to be reviewed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U148	Thank you, good questioner! This is a strategic decision for the Estonian state in the long term. I wouldn't be here to discuss how much it would cost in the short term. We must look at the experiences of other countries and the peculiarity of the Estonian state precisely on the topic of the integration of refugees into society. We need to think about what will happen in the long term, in the future. We have a peculiarity, which means that we have a significantly higher proportion of people who speak other languages than in another European country. We need to look at it precisely from a social position, how, in the long term, we can avoid the problems that have emerged in some other countries now, many years after making specific immigration decisions. So I wouldn't judge here. EUR 6 000 is a very small amount in time, but the results that we will get as a result of the major strategic decisions that are being taken in Europe, which will last much longer. Rather, it is this side that needs to be analysed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U149	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U150	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear Minister, As a conservative, you will also understand that these decisions are made on a factual basis and based on statistics and experiences from neighbouring countries, not emotionally. I can tell you by heart such statistics that 84% of the crimes in Copenhagen, for example, have been committed by immigrants. It's very scary statistics. You said that the Estonian people are not ready to receive a large number of refugees. However, it seems as if the government is already ready to receive 1,000 refugees with a great deal of hurrah, or perhaps under a seemingly voluntary label, 300 to 400. What do you say to the Estonian people, single parents, who support several children from the minimum wage, who live from social benefits or unemployment benefits? What do you say to those who are watching this luxurious life that is now in Vao village for 83 refugees?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U151	Thank you. I will tell all the people of Estonia what I said here once. The position of the government is very clear today: the Estonian state must be able to decide for itself who and how much the Estonian people and Estonia will accept as refugees. For those refugees who have come to Estonia and who still come here, we must take care of it, it is clear, as we care for our own people. It is clear that the opportunities of the Estonian state are considerably narrower and thinner than those of other countries, but the question is that if these are our own decisions, we must comply with these decisions. It is certainly not our view that we are in favour of a decision-making mechanism which, without our voluntary advice, aims to impose too many obligations on us. We certainly do not support this decision. That's our starting position. I call on you not to scare people and tell them what the government's plan is. The government has made its position very clear on this issue: we do not support compulsory quotas.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U152	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U153	The next question is for Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U154	Thank you. Minister of the Interior! The number of employees of the Police and Border Guard Board has decreased by 850 in the last five years, the number of land vehicles by 150 units and the property has been reduced by around 70000 square metres. This has saved EUR 25.8 million. There are limits to shrinking the structure and making it more efficient for internal resources. How are you going to contribute to solving the problems facing the Police and Border Guard Board in next year's budget? After all, the issue of building a border needs to be resolved, for example, and there are a number of other problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U155	Thank you for your question. The data was correct, that's good. I would not treat this as austerity, but I would like to treat it as a matter of urgency that, due to internal reorganisations and changes, the work of the police has been better valued and, above all, more valued by police workers, so that the people who work in the police are now paid more. But the truth is that I have said this before, that I no longer see much room for reducing the membership of the Police and Border Guard Board when we talk about staff. On the property side, I can see the reduction room, and the police can see the room. I think it makes sense if we try to be on the optimal size of the surfaces. The obstacle here is, of course, that additional resources are needed to obtain a new surface or to repair existing surfaces, but there are not many of them. We have a real estate plan, we're trying to get on with it. Thinking about next year, there's some good news that I'm sure you've already heard. Indeed, the government has decided to contribute at least EUR 20 million to the construction of the border. That's a lot of money. All other sums depend, first and foremost, on the opportunities we have to contribute as taxpayers to the state budget. Both wage increases and additional resources will depend on it. Fortunately, we also have the opportunity to use a great deal of European Union resources. For example, we're planning to do this, I don't know if we'll be able to do it next year, maybe we'll do it over the next year, buy the Police and Border Guard Board a new watercraft, a decent ship, just like we want to buy one new patrol plane. The car park will be exchanged for border guards and police officers. So there's a lot of action.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U156	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U157	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Before the elections, after this incident occurred at the border and you started paying attention to the border, you were very full of bravour and you promised to clear the border strip by June of this year, at least from the trees. It has now become clear that this has not worked. When the financial questions were dealt with either in the Riigikogu or in the media, you said that this was not a problem, that money would be found for it. It has now become apparent that building the entire border up-to-date will cost the circa 80 million euros. What sources are you trying to find this money from?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U158	Thank you. Let's start by clearing the border. It's been on a nice schedule. When we started this work, we talked first and foremost about state-owned countries, because private owners need to be negotiated. Of the land belonging to the country, 72 kilometers have now been cleared and already 45 kilometres have been felled. Uncleaned areas are primarily areas where due to the warm winter of this year it was not possible to get on with the technique due to purely natural conditions, ivy areas and bogs. But I believe in the quality and speed of RMK's work. I'm sure these areas will be clean. As regards the construction of the border, as I said, EUR 20 million has been agreed. Similarly, in principle, the government has approved the full completion of the border. Looking at the capabilities of the Police and Border Guard Board, perhaps next year we would have had a little more capacity to do these jobs, but also EUR 20 million is a very large amount that needs to be used in a nice and efficient way. For the next few years, we are discussing the allocation of money, as we are discussing in the same way in the government this year, and we will find the means that for the centenary birthday of the Estonian state, the land and water border between Estonia and Russia, which is the best at the time of completion and not the best in the world, will be the best in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U159	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U160	Thank you. I see, however, that you don't have any precise plans on how to get additional resources to the Police and Border Guard Board. But how do you look at the fact that, in the course of the current draft cluster law proceedings, you have to include a slight increase in the excise duty on alcohol and equalise the excise duty on lean alcohol with the excise duty on strong alcohol? That's where we can get the money we need.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U161	Thank you. That was not a proper question. I have a very clear understanding of the budgetary situation of the Police and Border Guard Board this year, what it will be like next year and what our investments will be like. I have this understanding very precisely. But the truth is, the size of the salary increase next year is that we will decide jointly in the government. We have agreed that certain groups (internal security, health, culture and education) would like to raise wages a little faster than in other areas. The exact number shall be indicated in the budgetary procedure. As far as excise duty is concerned, I will tell you a very brief comment, which was also said by my good colleague, Mr Mikser, when he answered one of the previous questions: revenue and expenditure cannot be put together or labelled. When revenue comes to the state budget, it is the revenue of the state budget, and the costs of the state budget we are still looking at together. In this sense, we would not want to put revenue tags on the state budget very much. Some of the expenses come from the law anyway, as you know. Health insurance money goes to health insurance, pension insurance money to the pension fund, roads go to a very clearly fixed percentage. In other respects, we are trying to maintain the greatest possible freedom of decision for the government, although the costs covered by the law must, of course, be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U162	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U163	The next question is also for the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U164	My question also concerns the cleaning of the border. We have heard various figures about this here, but it still remains unclear, or rather, the Minister did not answer where exactly the money comes from. EUR 20 million is obviously too small to get all this work over with. The question is also how far it is now to negotiate with private landowners in order to complete the work, as promised, for the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U165	Thank you. Then let's start again with cleaning and deforestation. I have a card with me, if I have a wish, I'll show you which places have been made for miles and squares. There's no problem here. As far as negotiations with private landowners are concerned, the situation is quite good. Of course, the Police and Border Guard are trying to achieve maximum results and reach an agreement with all people so that we do not have to go on expropriation. This year's budget has also been allocated to the Police and Border Guard Board to buy out the border strip if necessary. But, of course, it requires a whole range of activities, such as changing the cadastral and property boundaries, if necessary. These activities are all operational at the Police and Border Guard Board. I haven't heard there could be any obstacle. When we talk about money, it is, as always, at the expense of the state, that we look together at the taxpayer, he gives funds to the state budget, and we can then decide to use them when drawing up the state budget. As I said, there will be EUR 20 million for next year, and we will come to the amount for the next year in spring when we make the country's budget strategy for 2017 and beyond. So it's working. Let us hope that all the decisions that have already been taken by the government will be well taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U166	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U167	Yeah, I've got a specific information hunger, let's say so. Does the government see any possibility of going forward with border cleaning work in private lands before the disputes are legally settled, so that the work does not stop and the way I say unclean holes or windows that can be used by those who, say, want to use them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U168	Thank you. We don't see a problem here right now. In the case of individual landowners who have not given their consent at all, of course, expropriation may ultimately be an option. But elsewhere, we really do not see any problems, because the law of the state border also gives us the opportunity to do ten metres of work, and that is the extent to which we are clearly talking about the border zone. So I don't see that we have very serious problems with the private owners right now. Private owners are understanding. They are also interested in ensuring that Estonia's border should and should be well guarded. I haven't heard a problem from the Police and Border Guard Board. But I'm sure I'll get a more accurate review on June 15th when I'm on my way to the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U169	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U170	Mr. Minister of the Interior! How much of the cost of deforestation on the reference line in question is covered by the timber obtained from it? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U171	Thank you. I don't have the exact number, but the general agreement with RMK was that they would have the right to collect and dispose of timber from the area to be cleaned. This material is in very different forms, from bush to proper log forest. As far as I know, RMK doesn't have the extra cost they've incurred, it's not as big as they can't handle their jobs. RMK itself proposed that they get the material and realise it and do the work for the income they received. Broadly speaking, this project can be considered successful. But it is clear that the more complex the areas are left, the more swampy they go, the higher the cost and the lower the return. Forest material from bogs and swamps is certainly not as valuable as log material from dry areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U172	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U173	The next question is to Mr Tsahkna, Minister for Social Protection. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U174	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In 2009, the Equal Treatment Act entered into force, which must protect people from unequal treatment and discrimination. Paragraph 2 of this Act states the scope of application of the Act. It shows that the law itself is highly discriminatory and that, in fact, there are more than one problem. Discrimination based on nationality, race or colour is prohibited in almost all areas: education, employment, social protection, access to public services, etc. However, people with disabilities and older people are protected under this law, i.e. they are not allowed to discriminate only in the field of work and the conditions of access to the profession. In short, according to this law, people with disabilities can be treated unequally. The discriminatory situation resulting from this law has been brought to the attention of official interest groups and many others. What do you think of this situation when one law prefers one target group to another?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U175	Thank you, dear questioner. That is a very relevant question. The answer is that the Ministry of Social Affairs is planning to amend the Equal Treatment Act in order to harmonise its scope, regardless of discrimination. That's exactly what you're talking about. We are extending the scope to ensure that this law also applies to persons with disabilities, regardless of the specific area. That's one side of it. Secondly, it is precisely when implementing the Equal Treatment Act that we give the Commissioner the role of ensuring that the prevention of discrimination against persons with disabilities is monitored. As an institution, it will have such a position to ensure that the rights of persons with disabilities are exercised. It also relates to the implementation of the International Convention on the Protection of Persons with Disabilities. This Convention was ratified in 2012 in this very Chamber. So your concern is well founded, but there are laws in preparation at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U176	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U177	I understand you have the readiness to change this law. It's been tried for years. The issue of equal treatment has clearly not been a political preference. Do you think we could get this bill to our desks in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U178	Yeah, good questioner, you got me right, this legislative amendment is in preparation at the Ministry. If he goes through government proceedings, he'll make it to this hall. It takes into account precisely these grounds in order to ensure that the rights of persons with disabilities are monitored and treated equally, and to give the Commissioner for Equality a real role as guardian. I hope you have this bill in your hands in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U179	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U180	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! In 2004, an analysis of disability-specific services was launched very clearly to see which services are also needed in the context of the labour capacity reform. I want to ask you about written interpreters and description interpreters, especially written interpreters. Here, too, the Finnish state is generously coming to our aid and providing training so that we do not have to make such improvements to the study programmes ourselves. Is this on your desk and will it be dealt with?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U181	Thank you, good questioner! I am pleased that you have asked this question. A month ago, you as former minister and I as new minister were sitting at the table in my office and you handed over that stick. This topic will continue to be dealt with in the house. The subject is important and very specific, but it is very important for all those who need this service. So this job is on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U182	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U183	The next question is also for Mr Tsahkna, Minister for Social Protection. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U184	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister! I also have a question about the place of work capacity reform. I remember, and you also probably remember, that we talked that we should have started more forcefully with social welfare and support services, and precisely the money allocated to municipalities for this purpose. We know that the money that has now been given, EUR 50 million, is actually a drop in the sea, bearing in mind all the needs, though home care, family care, support and personal helpers, travel support, etc. How has progress been made on this subject? Is there any more money? How are support groups involved in developing common standards for services? That is the key issue. Where does the money come from, and how much exactly?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U185	Thank you, good questioner! Deferring the implementation of the employment capacity reform by half a year gave us the opportunity to start working capacity reform on the services side. From 1 July next year, this part will also apply to the assessment of people with special needs, namely those who will join this system. What is very important is precisely how to help local authorities to provide the necessary services to reduce the maintenance burden on informal carers. I have also signed a regulation on the adaptation of homes so that the needs of people with disabilities are taken into account in their homes. Both the previous government and the representative organisations of people with disabilities are involved in this work. As far as welfare standards are concerned, we will review them. Although they have been dealt with for years, we must, in particular, in cooperation with the municipalities and with the organisations of people with special needs, look at the specific minimum standards that each municipality should guarantee in the future if such a person lives in its region. This work is ahead of us, but I hope that the Riigikogu will be able to discuss it in this Chamber in the autumn of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U186	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U187	Thank you. I have recently heard that this work was already started in the previous government, but now I hear that this work is still ahead of us. But I'm still asking about the money, the 50 million euros. If we distribute it here, for example, there are 7 million for home care, 12 million for disability transport, 2.4 million for day care for elderly or disabled people, and 9 million for support persons or personal helpers. But still, that money doesn't come together as much as it takes. We know that these services are offered very, very differently in municipalities. Some have only a few services, some have more. There are many more in Tallinn, in a large place. How do you intend to harmonise this and whether there is money for this harmonisation? You can think of all the good things, but how is the money planned? Where do you get that from?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U188	Thank you. I understand from your question that you think it is positive if we are able to finance the services provided by municipalities and also by non-profit organisations. This money is intended specifically for the specific services that municipalities should provide to people with special needs, as well as to carers. There is now enough money to start offering these services. What is important is how to make financing sustainable. That is the point of your question. There is also a much wider issue in this area, which relates to administrative reform. If we are to prepare for administrative reform, it is crucial to review the specific obligations that municipalities should fulfil. It is particularly important to review funding so that local authorities have the means to provide services. I take the use of European funds as an opportunity to start providing services and make changes so that the provision of services in local governments remains sustainable in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U189	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U190	Thank you! Minister, thank you very much. One issue which is very important and which does not concern the European Union's money is the payment of fairer support to parents of children with deep disabilities, which is also one of the points of the coalition agreement. Currently, mothers care for their children with deep and severe disabilities for 25, 50 or 80 euros. The municipality determines this amount, but the payment is paid according to the minimum wage. How has this matter been dealt with? When is there hope that this will be discussed? For parents of children with deep disabilities, there is currently a so-called child care allowance that the municipality can apply for. It is coming, true, from the European Union's resources, but it is a complex support. But what about the money planned from the state budget and also agreed in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U191	Thank you. The state can do what we do to help alleviate the situation by providing services and opportunities for the state. As far as budgetary issues are concerned, ministries are now starting to agree their initial plans with the Ministry of Finance. Indeed, in the coalition agreement, this issue is written and we are moving on the basis of the plan that has been proposed there. More detailed information on the situation will come in the near future. It's in our applications.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U192	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U193	The next question is for the Minister of Defence in charge of the Prime Minister, Sven Mikser. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. It is known that months ago the government wanted to know the possibilities of hosting refugees in local governments. Now we are talking about negotiating where to place these people. Known to be free housing in municipalities, which would suit, is not immediately available and there are certain expenses to be incurred. What about paying for these expenses? What if there are no such opportunities, maybe there is no place to place refugees or receive anyone at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U195	Thank you. We certainly have some rather long debates ahead of us on the possible reception of refugees. It is clear that if Estonia accepts refugees, we must also guarantee them proper conditions. There are certain differences in the responsibilities of the state and local authorities in the resettlement and relocation of people. When we talk about people who have been granted international protection and who live in Estonia on the basis of a residence permit, the responsibilities of the state and local governments are no different from those of the rest of Estonia. When we talk about people who have arrived in Estonia and who do not have international protection, i.e. refugee status, for example, they are still applying for international protection, then, of course, the associated obligations of the state are also expenditure in terms of budget. But, of course, when talking about refugees who potentially settle in Estonian municipalities, consultations and full cooperation between the state and local governments are essential to prevent all kinds of problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U196	Okay, here's the deal. We're out of Question Time. Thank you to the ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U197	Dear Riigikogu! Hello also to those who have not yet seen today! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U198	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Free Party Group has the honour to hand over the draft law. When I defended an amendment to the electoral law here last week, one of the questions was whether we had any other initiatives coming up on this issue. Yes, it is. We wish to initiate a draft amendment to § 34 of the Local Government Council Election Act. In short, the aim is to set a reasonable limit to the length of the electoral list when selecting a local authority. According to our proposal, this list should not exceed twice the number of members of the respective council. Who longer remember the development of Estonian electoral laws, they know that such a change was made in the elections of the Riigikogu in the 1990s and since then the maximum length of the list there is 125 names, the number of mandates in the district plus two more names from each district. In the election of local governments, I think, this limit could be higher. However, we do not consider it reasonable to have this list-length rally, which, in the last local elections in Tallinn, culminated in a list of more than 450 names by a party. When we analyzed it, it turned out that a large part of these people were either tied to the city of Tallinn in a professional sense or in other ways, i.e. in a relationship of dependence. We kindly ask the Riigikogu to deal with this initiative! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U199	I have adopted a draft law which the Bureau will adopt in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. Now, please, let's do the presence check! There are 90 members and 11 members of the Riigikogu are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U200	First of all, the second reading of Bill No 8 of the Act on Insurance Activities initiated by the Government of the Republic is on the agenda. The rapporteur for the Monetary Commission is Remo Holsmer. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U201	All right, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. You have before you at second reading the draft law on insurance business. I will give an overview of the procedure and amendments at first and second readings...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U202	Sorry, Remo Holsmer! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please let us listen to the rapporteur for the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U203	Thank you. Amendments to the draft Act on Insurance Activities were received by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the Group of the Estonian Free Party by the deadline. At the same time, the Estonian Insurance Association, the Estonian Insurance Broker Association and the Estonian Liising Association sent their written statements to the Monetary Commission. Stakeholders' opinions have also been partially taken into account in the preparation of the amendments. The commission prepared amendments for you in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. They are partly based on a letter from the Ministry of Finance to the Committee on Monetary Affairs dated 20 May 2015. Now more about these amendments and also about those tabled by the political groups of the Riigikogu. Amendments 1 and 3 by the Centre Party Group and Amendments 2, 4, 6, 7, 9 and 37 by the Free Party Group are essentially included in the same desire to legitimise the establishment of an insurance undertaking as a mutual insurance company which could act in the form of a profit cooperative. The aim would be to provide services to its members, who are also policyholders at the same time. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, the representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that although there has been no signal from any part of the Estonian insurance market in the last 15 years that could be expected to have a more serious interest in operating in the form of a profit cooperative, the question in itself is of interest. In view of the interest shown in the political groups, the Ministry of Finance intends to carry out an analysis of a possible change in ownership. However, the introduction of mutual insurance companies into the law is not conceivable in the form proposed in the framework of this draft and in the amendments proposed. The draft is built on the logic of the so-called public limited company. The introduction of mutual insurance companies would require, inter alia, a more careful examination of company law, which should be analysed in conjunction with the Commercial Code and also the Bankruptcy Act. Another important aspect, which I emphasise, is that the amendment should also be in line with European Union law. In order to bring it into line with European Union law, we should ask for permission for this amendment and carry out the procedure provided for in European Union law, but at this stage it is simply no longer conceivable. These are the reasons why the majority in the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not support the proposals of the Group of the Centre Party and the Free Party. But I would like to emphasise once again that the Ministry of Finance will continue to deal with this issue and will certainly come with its proposals to the Riigikogu and the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Next, Amendment 32 of the Centre Party Group, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided to consider the substance. The same proposal from the Committee on Monetary Affairs is presented to you, honourable Members, in Amendment 33. The common element of these two amendments is the desire to supplement the Law of Obligations Act in such a way as to prohibit a situation where the remuneration or interest on the credit agreement is directly dependent on whether the debtor enters into the insurance contract himself or through a cooperation partner appointed by the creditor. A similar amendment was also proposed by the Government of the Republic in Bill 796, initiated on 1 December 2014, which fell out of the procedure between the two Parliaments. Apart from the Central Party Group's proposal, the Commission's proposal clarifies the Law of Obligations Act as recommended by the Consumer Protection Board. This requires the creditor to inform the debtor of the freedom of choice prior to the conclusion of the credit agreement. The question is the obligation to notify that the creditor does not force the consumer to offer one or the other service in one contract or another and that the consumer is free to take this ancillary service from other service providers. The following is an overview of the letters and proposals sent by the Estonian Insurance Association, the Estonian Liising Associations and the Estonian Insurance Broker Association. On these basis, some of the proposals have been formulated in the list of amendments. Of these, perhaps the most important is Amendment 23 on insurance mediation. The reason for this amendment is twofold. First, the Estonian Insurance Association proposed to the Ministry of Finance to regulate the transfer of the activities of an insurance agent in the same way as the activities of an insurance broker in the draft. In its letters to the Riigikogu, the Estonian Association of Insurance Brokers and the Estonian Association of Leising Associations have also proposed that the provisions governing the transfer of agents' activities should be included in the draft for reasons of regulatory clarity and equal treatment. Another incentive is the proposal by the Association of Insurance Brokers and Leasing Associations to regulate the cooperation of insurance brokers with third parties in determining the insurance interest of the customer and, to that end, to collect data somewhat more loosely than the original draft wording allowed. Paragraph 182 (7) of the draft has been amended and § 174 (4) has been supplemented by a new point 4 in order to resolve the problem of determining the interest in insurance. It provides that the intermediary is not a person who only forwards the insurance interest finding questionnaire drawn up by the intermediary to the customer and returns the questionnaire completed by the customer or completed in cooperation with the client to the intermediary, provided that such activity does not involve other activities specific to the insurance mediation. In plain language, this means that the leasing company can only identify the consumer, or the customer's primary interest in insurance, and does not provide advice. However, the leasing company may provide information about this interest in insurance to its partner, the insurance broker. There was simply a somewhat unclear regulation in the original text of this point. This was also the reason why the Committee on Monetary Affairs considered it necessary to support the amendment. However, it should be pointed out that 7 members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs were in favour of this amendment, 2 against and 1 abstention. Next, Amendment 24 is based on the proposal of the Estonian Insurance Association. The word 'consumer' is deleted from the two provisions, which may seem to be a minor change, but the wording of the draft could have given the impression that an insurance agent or broker would be allowed to mislead other persons, not consumers. For the sake of accuracy, such an amendment was made. Amendment 29 gives insurance brokers and insurance agencies, as their principal activity, a six-year transition period for the development of an internal rule. In the same way, for the sake of clarity, Amendment 35 provides again in the Law of Obligations Act the principle of § 9 (3) of the Law in force that, in the case of compulsory insurance, the insurer will compensate the injured person for all the damage and subsequently claim the policyholder back. This is a change made directly in the interest of the policyholder. The total of the amendments, see the table of the amendments, is 37. But the majority of them are more eloquent and precise proposals. As a commission of directors, the Monetary Commission decided to put a draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today, 3 June 2015, with a proposal to close the second reading. Procedural decisions were given in a consensual manner. Thank you! I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U204	Questions for the waitress. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U205	I'm asking about the insurance company you were talking about so superficially. Speaking a bit more broadly, tell me why we have so come out in Estonia today that there is not much affection for cooperative activities and especially for insurance cooperatives, even though the world knows this kind of activity very well. You said that the change must be coordinated with Europe. The creation of an insurance cooperative is not an invention that should not be co-ordinated with. It's a long-known form.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U206	Thank you. It is true that there are very many examples of cooperative insurance companies in the old Europe. I referred to coordination. This concerns the alignment with the Directive. As I said, bringing all this issue in would mean reviewing bankruptcy law as well as harmonising other laws. Putting the possibility of setting up cooperative insurance companies with one, two or three amendments into the law was simply not possible in time. This subject needs further study. As I said, this proposal came from two political groups in the Commission, the Central Party and the Free Party Group, and I believe that the initiator gave assurance that this whole issue would be worked out, and then, why not, a new regulation will come up to enable these cooperative societies to be set up. I would also like to comment on the fact that, since regaining independence, there has been no particular signal from market participants that they could create these associations at all. If there is more of this desire in society or among businesses, for example, then I believe that the pressure on the legislator will also increase. At the moment, let us say this, by the two groups, it is relatively extraordinary that this proposal has been brought here before us for discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U207	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U208	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am happy to put more pressure on you about mutual insurance companies and their authorisation in Estonia. But I, too, do not quite understand what a miracle this alignment with the directive means when, in general, such insurance companies are common in the countries of the European Union and, rather, their absence is exceptional. The second part of the question: has the government signalled to the Commission when it could come up with such an initiative? I assume that the work plans have been presented to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Has a corresponding correction or addition been introduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U209	Thank you. As regards the directive, this amendment would not be compatible with the directive. The Annex to the Directive sets out for each Member State the form in which an insurance undertaking may operate in a particular country. It is specifically written on black white and in the case of Estonia it is a form of a public limited company. That is the answer to your first question. When could the government bring this issue back to its own table first and then to the Riigikogu table again? I do not have one deadline; we did not get it fixed in this way in the Commission either. However, there was talk about the second half of this year, so the Ministry will receive the first feedback.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U210	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U211	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This draft law has been initiated because national law needs to be brought into line with the requirements of the European Union. That's my question. Do we have any time pressure to adopt this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U212	Thank you. Yes, we should enforce this law from 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U213	Lauri Laasi.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U214	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! If this bill becomes a law, will there be some kind of increase in the price of insurance services? Can you tell us, by putting your hand on our hearts, that there is no price increase hidden in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U215	Thank you. The price of services is regulated by the market, neither by you nor by myself nor by the state. The price is on the market. This change concerns mediation activities and the multiplicity of choices for the consumer. This option will certainly be much wider in the future and the customer will be able to make a more favourable decision when purchasing insurance services, but he will also have to look at the conditions. It is not the case that, in the case of insurance services, only the price is the principal argument that a customer must take into account when making a decision in favour of one or the other company.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U216	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U217	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Although the draft contains provisions, somewhat specified in relation to the law in force and more clearly worded, that the insurance broker must be loyal to his client, the provisions do not explicitly exclude the continuation of the current erroneous practice, where the interests of the customer are being harmed and the offers of insurance companies are being encouraged by the remuneration paid by the insurer to the broker. In a situation where the principles of remuneration of an insurance broker are regulated at the level of the law, it is incomprehensible why the remuneration of an unregulated broker itself has been left to do so. Why are the positions of the Estonian Insurance Association not taken into account on such an important issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U218	Thank you. The proposals of the Association of Insurance Companies have been partly taken into account, as I said in my introductory speech. As regards the remuneration of brokers, there is a system in Estonia that brokers are remunerated by societies, their fees are borne by societies. There is a philosophical difference between the fee paid by the customer or by the insurance undertaking. However, it is important that insurance brokers act primarily in the interests of the customer or the consumer. Their first objective cannot be the commission they earn for the provision of the products and services of insurance undertakings.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U219	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U220	Thank you very much. My question is a follow-up to the previous one and concerns § 174 'Insurance broker and insurance agent'. Does this law change anything in their daily work, or does it simply specify their tasks? Perhaps something will change that will increase confidence in them and their authority? Will these changes increase this authority?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U221	Thank you. If you look at the insurance market in Estonia, you can see that brokers' activities in the market have significantly activated over recent years. The business logic of insurance companies must also adapt to it. It either takes a broker as one of its sales channels that resells his services, or it tries to get to as many customers as possible as it can with its services. It's the insurance market, it seems to me, irreversible logic. In fact, the activity of brokers as an extension of the arm of insurance companies and as an extension of the arm in a good sense, as a channel of sales, is a perfectly normal development. What matters there is, as I stressed in reply to the previous question, that an insurance broker must primarily defend the interests of his client or consumer rather than think about how to get more commission from one insurance company or another. In that sense, I believe that the market is working. This is where they asked if prices were supposed to rise. I don't think that's gonna happen, quite the opposite.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U222	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U223	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Your presentation was passed as a red thread by the European Union's demand for us to introduce the relevant regulations, and we will do so. This, of course, puts the Riigikogu in a bit of a bad position. Do we have the right to make our own decisions or not? I would say that if, for example, the European Union decides that all men have to wear skirts, we could still demand some kind of exception. These are rather complex regulations, which are well understood by those who operate in the insurance market. Not everything is understandable to everyone, as shown by the abundance of questions. Is it possible to explain very simply to the people what will improve in a simple person's life if this law is passed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U224	Yes, this law is in many ways included in the European Union's Solvency II programme, which we should transpose into Estonian law. What's getting better in the life of an Estonian person? I think it is in the interests of the Estonian person that insurance companies be well capitalised, that all reserve requirements are good enough and that an Estonian person should not worry about the fact that this agency could go bankrupt when concluding one or another insurance contract. The amendments made to the draft requirements for insurance undertakings are clear, transparent and specific. It is certainly in your interest, too, Mr Vasilyev, that the insurance market in Estonia and the companies involved there are reliable, and no Estonian person or you should think that when you go to the office of one insurance company or another, you should be afraid that the insurance company may not be able to meet one or another requirement if something happens.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U225	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U226	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! Members of the Monetary Commission have received a letter from Mart Jesse, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Insurance Association. According to him, the association of leasing companies and the association of insurance brokers wanted to change the transfer of the broker business in the draft. At the meeting at the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry proposed a drafting proposal. An addition to § 174 (4) of the Ministry reached the Finance Committee with the words 'or in cooperation with the client'. According to Jesse, this would essentially change the content of insurance mediation and customer's insurance interest and identification of needs and would not comply with the principles agreed by the Ministry of Finance, in particular the principle of financial supervision of operations. Market participants will be able to successfully implement schemes in order to put the full responsibility of the intermediary on the customer's shoulders and continue to fool them in a situation where the financial awareness of the clients is very low. How can we answer that question?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U227	Thank you. With regard to this paragraph, it must certainly be stressed that, as far as the transfer of activities and the initial determination of the interest in insurance are concerned, it is strictly under the supervision of the Financial Supervision Authority. I am happy to read out the requirements which the law lays down in § 182: this activity must not be detrimental to the interests of the customer, must not hinder the performance of the intermediary and the fulfilment of his obligations at the appropriate level, must not hinder the supervision of the intermediary and it must be ensured that the person to whom the activity is transferred has the necessary knowledge and skills to enable him to fulfil his obligations. Perhaps if a client goes to a leasing company and finds out the initial insurance interest, which in turn is passed on to the partner, then all this activity is under the supervision of the Financial Supervision Authority. Ultimately, it is the responsibility of the customer to have the best service chosen, still the broker, not the leasing company.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U228	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U229	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The insurance undertaking shall take over only the risks of an undertaking belonging to the same group under the insurance contract. Can you specify whether and in which non-life insurance areas, apart from insurance against guarantees and financial losses, can the undertaking operate in the first place?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U230	Thank you. A very good and specific question. The Committee on Finance did not discuss it in this form, but I believe that we can clarify it from the initiator between second and third readings and give a very detailed answer to such a detailed question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U231	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U232	Thank you, manager. Mr President of the Commission. I will come back to the issue of mutual insurance companies. 77% of EU countries operate in this form. In addition to Estonia, there are only four countries in Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Lithuania and Slovakia where it is not used. We have plenty of time, until 1 January next year. Perhaps it would have been wise to resolve this issue with this bill. In the future, insurance companies with mutual trust could also be established in Estonia. Should we actually adopt this law in a hurry?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U233	There is certainly no mention of the speedy adoption of the law. As a reminder, I will tell all good colleagues that 90% of the draft was pending during the previous Riigikogu, he fell out of the procedure due to the end of the mandate of the Riigikogu at the time and was handed back from the government to us for processing in April, if I am not mistaken. There's definitely no rush here. However, we must be guided by this, as you yourself said, that this law should be adopted by 1 January 2016. It's been a lot of work, and I don't see any burning reason why we can't move on with it right now. As I have already pointed out in several replies, the topic of cooperative activities is analysed very thoroughly by the Ministry of Finance and brings its proposals to the Riigikogu at the appropriate moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U234	Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U235	Thank you. However, since neither I nor I look around, probably anyone else in this hall is a very big insurance professional or not a deep-sensing specialist, I ask you, in order to calm all our consciences and make life easier: What did the Financial Supervision Authority think about this draft, and did they have any complaints? If the Financial Supervision Authority fully endorses this, then perhaps we too will be able to sleep more calmly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U236	Thank you. With the Financial Supervision Authority, we have repeatedly exchanged information on this draft. They're watching the market work. Where they need intervention, they intervene, but in fact they do not have to intervene too much in practice. At first, I said this market would work. They have not received any negative signals regarding the adoption of this law. On the contrary, they too expect the new regulation to be adopted and enforced from 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U237	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U238	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! If these changes are brought into line with the Euro Directives, how many insurance companies should disappear from the market? Is there no risk that this is a covert attempt to monopolise the insurance market or create a monopoly?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U239	Thank you. No, as I said, the insurance market in Estonia works, there is also price competition. Although insurance companies are international in most cases, only two insurance companies based on Estonian capital may remain on the market. I don't see the danger of the market monopolising. Equal rules and opportunities will be established. On the issue of Valdo Randpere, too, I believe that the supervision of the Financial Supervision Authority will work. I don't see the dangers you described.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U240	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U241	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm actually getting awesome. I have been working here in the Riigikogu for two months, and I am increasingly hearing such arguments that the Riigikogu is not able to initiate anything or that everything gets stuck behind the Ministry and the Government. The subject is currently a cooperative activity. Why does the Riigikogu committee not have the courage and will to initiate the drafts itself, but is entangled because of certain third bodies? What kind of institution is this Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U242	Thank you. The Riigikogu is a legislative body when you answer your question directly. Your assessment of the fierceness or lack of action by the Committee on Monetary Affairs or any committee at all is your assessment. Ask your colleague from the Free Party Group who was at the meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs when we discussed this issue. The Ministry of Finance, the representative of the executive authority, confirmed that they are involved in the analysis of the cooperative activities of insurance companies and in the development of the regulation of their activities. Maybe you're too impatient. There's no reason to get upset.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U243	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U244	Honourable Chairman! Honourable waitress! I come back to § 174, still to the fourth point of the fourth paragraph, which we talked about for quite a while in the Commission. There was a question, if I remember correctly, essentially in three words, whether to add the words 'or in cooperation with the client'. It was the subject of the discussion. At first you, too, as chairman of the committee, once supported the deletion of these three words, and then my colleague from the IRL suggested that they be incorporated. Today, the association of insurance companies, as we have just heard from a colleague, has again written us a letter in which he will oppose these three words. Please, would you comment again on why you think those three words are necessary there?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U245	Thank you. The letters that have come to the Monetary Commission, both a letter from the Insurance Broker Association and a letter from the Insurance Association, are open to the public. The letter of the brokers concerned that perhaps the treatment of how the lessor can determine the initial insurance interest of the customer who came to the leasing company had become a little too detailed. Whether it's on paper, in electronic form, is there anything on the screen that debate was actually out of the law's regulation. But we have been looking in the Commission for a compromise on the role of the 'letter pigeon', so that the initial insurance interest and the transfer of that interest to the broker would work, as it has so far worked, so that the state would not over-regulate it in any way. Finally, we got the wording you described. But once again, all this activity is strictly under the control of the Financial Supervision Authority. This day-to-day activity cannot harm the client. I believe that this wording is, in conclusion, a good one. As I pointed out earlier, the regulation that the lessor can do (he cannot advise, he can only pass on the original insurance interest) and the broker's activities are, firstly, supervised and, secondly, still operational. It's worked now. The new regulation will not turn life over in any way, nor will it increase the administrative burden on people or businesses, nor will it make their lives more difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U246	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U247	Thank you. Good waitress! I agree that, to some extent, the transposition of the Solvency II Directive will benefit us because it will help to improve the efficiency of insurance companies, especially in terms of risk management. However, according to a study carried out by KPMG in 2012, the biggest problem in its implementation was the scarcity of resources, which is further exacerbated by the large number of documents required and the numerous requirements for data and systems. Can you comment on the current readiness of insurance companies operating in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U248	Thank you. I will remind you once again of the objectives of the draft. The purpose of the draft is to ensure that the insurance company established in Estonia is solvent, sustainable, well-managed and transparent in its activities and that the supervisory mechanisms applied help protect the client's interests. If it were to be taken as such a major paradigm, a narrative, there had been no question about it from market participants, associations or brokers, any argument or any move towards this goal. That purpose has been recorded. In any case, I call for the end of the second reading of the draft and the adoption of the law at third reading to be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U249	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U250	Dear Speaker! Good waitress! You have mentioned here that there is no pressure from companies from the bottom or, let's say, from entrepreneurs to allow mutual insurance in Estonia. As far as I am concerned, the so-called maritime assistance system is being carried out in parallel with Finland, then Trossi, based on mutual insurance, has a great deal to do with marine culture and boating at sea and should in turn strongly support voluntary maritime rescue. The creation of this system has been dragging on for years. It's a tricky thing to make it work. But now it seems that because of the lack of law, it stretches even further. Can you give volunteer marine rescuers some kind of prognosis as to when a draft mutual insurance bill might come before us in case this issue does not enter into this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U251	Thank you. I can rely on what we talked about in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. There, the initiator confirmed his willingness to examine the subject. As I said, it means matching bankruptcy law with other laws, such as the Commercial Code. I cannot say a specific date here at the moment, but it was promised to deal with the matter and, in the second half of this year, to give more concrete feedback, by which date this draft could reach the government and pass on to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U252	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U253	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In the course of the procedure, did the stakeholders also put forward any proposals that you did not pass in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, because you believe that this would have increased the cost of an insurance policy for the final consumer? If so, what did these proposals relate to?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U254	Meetings with the various parties took place in the previous composition right here in the Riigikogu. A round table was held with representatives of insurance companies, insurance brokers, the Financial Supervision Authority and tourism companies. Then the Riigikogu elections came, and between the two Riigikogus the bill fell out of the procedure. After the new government was appointed, a round table was held at the Ministry of Finance under the direction of a minister. There was more or less the same company behind the table as in the Riigikogu at that time. I have already referred to the letters sent by the Committee on Finance here several times. All the changes have come from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but through the ministry or the initiator, with the exception of the proposals of the Free Party and the Centre Party Group on cooperative insurance companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U255	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U256	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I have four questions about this draft, but unfortunately it is not possible to ask four questions, and I chose one of them. In fact, I wonder if this new regulation will in any way reduce the chances of cheating. There are two kinds of fraud. First of all, incidents like this when someone drives down a fence gate with his Mercedes and then explains that this fence gate hit him on the highway. The second, so-called legitimate form of fraud is when insurance companies put something in a contract with small letters and then claim that your barn burned down, but whoever set it on fire was a refugee and they don't have insurance against refugees. Will the new regulation help to prevent such 'legal' deceptions so far, and will people have sufficient and reasonable confidence that they will receive compensation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U257	Thank you. We still make laws to prevent fraud. We don't legitimize fraud. I don't think this construction is quite qualified. Secondly, once again, all insurance activities are subject to supervision by the Financial Supervision Authority. If there are any examples that something is either too small or too large and something is unclear, I encourage you to address the Financial Supervision Authority immediately as a client and consumer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U258	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The members of the Centre Party and the Free Party submitted a number of amendments to the draft Act on Insurance Activities in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but unfortunately they were not approved. The reason was that these proposals need to be analysed and brought into line with other laws. According to the author of the bill, the head of the field, he was willing to continue working with them out of professional interest. As you said in your report earlier, yes, the Committee on Monetary Affairs is working on it. Are you confident internally that this issue will not be placed in a desk drawer, but will really be looking for the best solutions to implement these proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U260	Thank you. There is a sense of distrust here today against the activities of executive power. I think that the members of all the political groups in the Committee on Monetary Affairs can recall this promise in their joint work. We consider this to be the will and will of the body of the legislative body. My personal will alone is not enough here, all your proposals are welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U261	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U262	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. § 194 of the Bill states that the business name of the company insurance agent must include the word 'insurance' in Estonian or in a foreign language. I wonder if we are now legitimising the use of English, Russian or other languages in Estonia. Can you specify the use of a foreign language?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U263	Thank you. I must admit that this issue did not raise at first reading, nor did it raise at the Commission's debate. I hope you will accept this if I specify it and answer you in writing. As you can see, it is a very thorough and thick document, probably not all members of the Riigikogu have been able to read all the paragraphs and examine their impact. We'll specify that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U264	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U265	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Years ago, I went to a group of young lawyers. I asked what they thought would be a definite element of Parliament's work. I felt excited because young lawyers said that when laws are made, they must be done in such a way that ordinary citizens can understand them. If we do them, they think we should do it in such a way that we ourselves can explain what we have adopted and voted for. Do you share the view that the laws we adopt here must be understood by the ordinary citizen? Are you sure this law is clear to the common citizen?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U266	Yes, I share that view. Whether all laws adopted in the Riigikogu are understandable to the end in every level of detail for all Estonian people, I dare to doubt. Obviously, however, it is vital to use the eyes and skills of a lawyer to interpret many laws. This is once again the common interest of the Riigikogu itself, so that the laws that we adopt are clear and understandable, and they also work, so that there is no dual comprehension.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U267	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U268	Thank you, manager. Mr President, first of all, thank you for your meaningful and balanced answers. But I'm still asking. When could there be a legislative amendment to mutual insurance companies in Parliament? You're talking about when the Treasury Department officials are bringing it here. The work of the officials of the Ministry of Finance depends on what politicians write to them. Is there a consensus in the coalition that this could go on? Perhaps you'll say the deadline for this bill to come back to the hall so it stays on the verbatim? Then we could be happy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U269	Thank you. When I answered one question about the deadline, I said that in the second half of the year, we will receive feedback from the Ministry of Finance on what the timetable could be for a possible new regulation to be sent to the government and from there to the Riigikogu. I know the Government of the Republic adopted its work plan last week. I think it would certainly be better to ask the Minister for Finance, who will be coming here soon, when will the matter you referred to be dealt with in greater detail? I understand that we may have a longer time in this Chamber today, so I'm sure he'll have time to answer that. After all, there are 37 amendments in total, their vote must be very much considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U270	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! You said before you answered my question that there would be no monopolisation. But at the same time, in this same reply, you claimed that there might be two insurance companies in Estonia, the rest of the insurance companies being on foreign capital.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U272	Estonian capital has two.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U273	The capital of Estonia is based on two insurance companies. But this is a total monopoly if insurance companies based on Estonian capital are eaten out of the market by means of directives and only insurance companies based on foreign capital remain. I mean, it's all over. Please disprove my statement! Make me happy so I can sleep at night, just like Randper.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U274	Thank you. I think there is probably an appropriate parallel here with the banking sector. The market for insurance companies is also international. As I said, the purpose of this law is that the consumer, perhaps you, has the confidence that one or the other insurance company will not go bankrupt. In turn, in order to ensure this, the State will make sufficiently good regulation on capital requirements, transparency and corporate governance criteria. In order for this bill to be directed against companies based on Estonian capital, I certainly do not agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U275	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U276	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Indeed, by continuing the question of March Sults, I am asking the same question of capitalisation. What is this requirement then and are the two companies based on Estonian capital qualifying or are they forced to leave the market?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U277	Thank you. No, no one's forcing them to leave. All insurance undertakings must comply with uniform requirements. I believe that there is no disagreement in this Chamber either, nor is there any recommendation for special treatment. All companies must be equal. Once again, the insurance market is supervised by the Financial Supervision Authority. I can rely on these words that the insurance market actually works well, supervision works well and the interests of the client are also protected. I'd take down the fear or distrust that you planted with your question, not intentionally.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U278	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U279	Thank you. I will continue with the two questions raised by the questioners. While this draft was here at first reading in May, the Minister of Finance made a relatively brief presentation on the substance of this thick draft. He mentioned that Estonian insurers and financial supervisory authorities are already preparing for the transition to the new law. Stress tests suggest that capital requirements are increasing, but Estonian insurers are relatively capitalised enough. My question is that if they are relatively capitalised enough, do we know any insurers who have to find additional capital in six months?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U280	Thank you. It is difficult for me to comment on the words of the Minister of Finance, to which you referred. I don't know the context of those words. We in the Commission did not discuss the speech you referred to separately. I must repeat myself once again: the insurance companies' market is functioning, subject to supervision by the Financial Supervision Authority. If, in the case of any company, the requirements for its capital and reserves are no longer in accordance with the law, supervision, or the Financial Supervision Authority, will intervene immediately.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U281	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U282	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Only a few consumers can distinguish between an insurance broker, an insurance undertaking and an insurance agent. It is rather consumers who consider brokers to be sales workers. Advertising by insurance brokers using brands that give the impression that it is an insurance undertaking's advertising has contributed to this practice. How does the draft law strengthen the monitoring of such misleading advertising and whether this law will clarify the situation and thus improve consumer awareness? After the adoption of this law, can we say that Estonian consumers are better protected than before?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U283	Thank you. Estonian consumers are certainly better protected than before. If you see any misleading ads, send a signal not to me, but to the Financial Supervision Authority. Your first question was about the brokers' activities. Once again, this bill, as well as the regulation so far, is structured in such a way that the insurance broker acts in the interest of the customer, and so it will remain.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U284	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U285	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I am very pleased that both of us believe that Estonian laws must be understood by ordinary citizens. Now, I'm going to take this bill and quote one place for you. There are dozens of places like this in this text. Paragraph 17 (4): 'The application for authorisation of a special purpose vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of Article 318 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 2015/35 supplementing Directive 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of Insurance and Reinsurance (Solvency II) (Text with EEA relevance). ' That means I have to find a directive and some regulation. To understand the text, I need additional documents. Why is it not possible to rewrite all this in Estonian law? Why do you even have to have such references in the text? It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U286	Thank you. I also found this place, it's paragraph 4, right? That's what you read. I think your point is correct. It would probably make sense to put this question to the Minister of Justice, who has a role to play in all the drafts that the government sends to the Riigikogu, both in legal terms and in text. I think that the remark you made is absolutely appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U287	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U288	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Perhaps, on behalf of the Commission, you can comment on why the proposal of the Estonian Insurance Broker Association to introduce a mandatory accreditation requirement for insurance brokers was not taken into account? This is a welcome and worth considering proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U289	Thank you. I have in front of me a letter from the Estonian Insurance Association to the Monetary Commission. I'm sorry, I can't find this place so quickly, but I don't see that such a proposal has been made. If it exists, we need to review it together, but at least in the letter that I have, there is no proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U290	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U291	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I read in the bill that the insurance agent, the head of the insurance agency, the board of directors and the other people involved in this field must have insurance training. This subject is written in § 178, but there are some other questions. I want to approach this from the other side. It has been said that the individuals I was talking about must have an impeccable business reputation. My question is who will assess whether these people have such a reputation. Is that what the Commission, the Financial Inspectorate or anyone else is doing? Can you expand our knowledge a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U292	Thank you. I hope I remember this debate correctly. Firstly, it is the choice of the owners of the company that they employ or hire. Secondly, if some candidates are not exactly impeccable or have been punished, there is a separate regulation that they should not do this job. It's about punishment. When it comes to Maine, however, as I said, it is up to the owners of the company to decide who they hire. There's also subjectivity, there are certainly brilliant whites, perfect examples, businessmen and other people with a totally impeccable reputation. The party to the penalty shall be separately regulated. I can't read all these provisions in my head right now, but this logic is kind of built up in two ways: the same way the owner is responsible for who he hires, the other way around, a certain part of it is defined by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U293	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U294	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I come back to Dmitri Dimitriyev's question. When reviewing the material, the tables attached to the draft include such a point in the list of proposals with the Union proposal: 'In order to ensure a uniform quality of service provided by insurance brokers and to create general confidence in the insurance broker as a profession, the legislator could consider imposing a mandatory accreditation requirement on insurance brokers. ' Exactly a suggestion. This proposal was not taken into account by the Commission during its discussion. Can you comment on why?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U295	Will the President allow me to discuss this later with the honourable questioner?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U296	I'm sorry, I'm going to be more specific. Did you read the letter from the Insurance Association? At first, you mentioned that you were reading a letter from the brokers' union. I have both here, at least those that have been sent to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Maybe try to get on the same page.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U297	There is no such procedure that he can specify.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U298	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U299	Of course, the manager will ask if that is possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U300	If that's okay with the questioner.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U301	I guess he's okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U302	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U303	Any more questions? No further questions. I thank the waitress! I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U304	Respectables, you won't be sitting here with a good income forever! You may think about it as if you do not care about any price increases or the cost of any service. But one day you'll be ordinary citizens. One day, you'll probably be poor pensioners. Then you scratch your head and wonder why you did it, why you made your own life harder. Consider, too, those who have not been as good at putting themselves in place as you have. Do not cause these people any anxiety, frustration, or excessive costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U305	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us now start a speedy examination of the amendments to the draft 8 amendments. A total of 37 amendments have been received. The first amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U306	Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, When we look around this hall, we see that the law on insurance doesn't really excite people. I'm gonna show you the law for once, it's such a nice piece of shit. I bet the absolute majority of members of the Riigikogu have not read it, and I bet almost half of the members of the committee have not read the law. What's the problem with this law? A few very important things. Firstly, as we have repeatedly understood the answers to the questions asked to the rapporteur, this law has an important disadvantage as regards cooperative activities. The coalition, however, is characterised by total unwillingness to remedy this deficiency, a lack of flexibility. The second thing that really bothers me personally is that the law came to the Riigikogu because the European Union has commanded it to do so. If we are talking about whether the Estonian Parliament is a rubber stamp or could be the sovereign legislator of the sovereign Estonian people, then, forgive me, but I would like to scream every time someone comes up with a law about which he says that the European Union tells us to do this or another thing. This is bullshit! The third important thing is that this law increases bureaucracy in Estonia. This increases the power of the public administration over decisions taken by the private sector and people, which increases the powers of the Financial Supervision Authority to control different institutions. There is too much of this already in Estonia. The result of all this compote is that people's freedom of choice is reduced, the cost of the service increases and life gets worse. Thus, the Conservative People's Party opposes the fact that the law cannot be corrected, which is reasonable and presented at a reasonable time. We are opposed to the fact that the parliament of a sovereign state is doing things because Brussels commands, and we are opposed to the fact that insurement is becoming more expensive for citizens. We intend to vote against this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U307	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Jüri Adams!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U308	Mr President! I have no personal connection with the substance of this law. A large-scale international insurance business is not an area of life that I know anything about. However, the processing of this draft in this Chamber and in the Commission is a good example in the sense that it highlights a number of fundamental shortcomings in the Estonian system of state and legislation and is appropriate to describe them in this example. A description without examples remains too abstract. First of all, we must honestly say that what we are dealing with here is very difficult to call law making. We can adopt it in the form of a law, but it is, however, an official translation of the application of a European directive. This is not bad of itself; it is probably necessary to do so in the future if Estonia continues as a member of the European Union. Such documents may also come from the United Nations, for example. But it's still a translation. We have to ask ourselves whether this situation, in which we are confined to the position of the sworn translator, confirming that the translation is correct and practical, is what the Estonian people have sent us here to work for. The second question that arises here is the relationship between economic rationality and justice. We base our draft on the fact that, in the foreseeable future, the vast majority of insurance activities - up to 99% - will take the form of the activities of large multinational groups. This is right and must be dealt with. But does it follow from this that it is necessary to say that thinking about and talking about small activities outside of it is a waste of time and that it is not practical, so it does not need to be dealt with? To me, this seems to be living on the Soviet Union's own thinking in the minds of our economic and financial people and, in part, of our lawyers. What doesn't matter, we can send it to Siberia, right? That's not right. Justice begins when we say that the right is not only intended for those whom we consider likely to be successful in this business area, but the right begins when anyone, including the person whose face we do not like or for whom we do not think he is sufficiently experienced, also gets a legal opportunity to try in the same field. It has been in Estonia for more than 12 years, and it started in the IX Riigikogu in one very peculiar way to ban certain forms of activity practiced in the Act. In fact, the law contains a section listing two or three forms of company that may be engaged in one or the other business. The point of such paragraphs is that for all other potential players not included in this list, this is in fact a ban. It's a ban in the form of silence. We should basically be aware of this because it has been implemented in Estonia in dozens and dozens of laws. Probably need to go through them. May I ask for more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U309	How much do you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U310	Do I have a choice?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U311	Yes, you can have up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U312	Then to the maximum, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U313	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U314	Thank you! Another phenomenon that needs to be discussed. In human language, we still use homonyms, i.e. words that have more than one meaning. If we use the same word for several phenomena, it does not mean that these phenomena are essentially or legally the same. Since we entered the European Union, there has been a constant problem with the prohibition of various local small-scale activities or inappropriate requirements imposed on them, and this is justified by the European Union's requirements for large-scale activities of the same name. An example that could be Utrated is that if there is a passenger car directive in the European Union, for example, we in Estonia also use it for toy cars with batteries used by children. They're both cars. This is a very important problem for which a general and fundamental solution should be found. Then the pressure question. Mr Holsmer said there was no pressure. Yes, I would also like to see enough pressure in Estonian politics in the event of serious problems, and if necessary, interested parties would come to Toompea Square for a demonstration or send letters of complaint. I would have liked it even more if all these bans through silence had been brought to court, then the steps were also taken to the Supreme Court and would have been revoked. I am convinced that if someone had taken action on this matter, the victory of the court would have come against such prohibitions. For some reason, however, the Estonian people and Estonian entrepreneurs have started to apply their pressure rather than using the method called 'legs'. This means that de facto prohibited activities have been abandoned, maybe left to other countries, started to operate in different forms, etc. If we, who are here in the Riigikogu with the mandate of the people, do not see that this has been pressure, and say that there has been no pressure, then we should admit that we are not really suited to the place where we have been placed. We have at least two relevant sections of the Constitution. One is § 29, the first paragraph of which gives everyone the right to choose an occupation, and the other is § 9, the second paragraph of which gives legal persons, unless there is anything contrary to nature or good manners, the right to engage in all the same activities which are permitted for natural persons. All these things that I described, including the bans contained in the draft act that we are looking at today, are contrary to our current constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U315	Thank you. I'm asking for the Riigikogu's speech chair, Kadri Simson! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U316	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, Above all, I should probably turn to good colleagues from the opposition, because I see the members of the Free Party, the EKRE and the Centre Party in a large number of halls, but only Remo Holsmer represents the Reform Party and Viktoria Ladynskaya represents the IRL. Greetings to Ivar Padar and Maire Aunas! I would like to pay tribute to all of you to your presence in the Chamber one hour after the opening of the sitting. I want to tell you how a bill should be handled. The bill currently being discussed was handed over to the Riigikogu on 1 December 2014. In the same week, the Ministry of Finance came up with quite a few very large drafts. This draft explained that it was primarily a harmonisation of directives, but at the same time the full text of the law was opened. When we look at the calendar, we realise that the elections were already very close and there was no reason to expect a large, substantial focus on this subject. However, the first reading took place in January this year, January 14. The Committee on Finance acted correctly and gave ten working days to make amendments until 28 January, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. However, it was found that in the pre-election heat, it was not worth processing such a comprehensive draft as it would be in a hurry and it fell out of the procedure. The new government came before the Riigikogu on 6 May with the same package. Again, at least this law was very formalised and ten working days were allowed to make amendments, i.e. on 6 May, the Minister introduced the draft in this Chamber and until 20 May, amendments could be tabled. This certainly gave opposition parties the opportunity to make their substantive proposals. Unfortunately, they were pushed to the surface and said that one day they would come back to this issue. The full composition of the Monetary Commission acted relatively spontaneously and formulated some amendments at the table at last week's meeting. Mart Jesse, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Insurance Association, has now sent a letter about them to the Riigikogu. He said there, last week in the Commission, not consensually, but in relation to the amendments voted in with the votes of the government union: 'I believe that, in the above wording, the improvements made to the insurance mediation chapter will become quite meaningless compared to the legislation in force today, and that, in this form, financial supervision of the insurance mediation grey zones, which the new law attempted to liquidate, will be made impossible. I would stress that the transfer of activities by insurance brokers has caused constant problems over the years and as such was also identified at the Financial Supervision Authority's round table last year, which also formulated the fundamentals of today's draft. ' We're in a situation where there's no point in rushing into a big law. The Centre Party Group therefore proposes to suspend the second reading of the draft law. Now what happens next. It was not for nothing that I said that the Committee on Monetary Affairs sometimes has the custom to follow the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure of the Riigikogu correctly and to give the time prescribed in the Rules of Procedure for tabling amendments. If we manage this bill in this Chamber, we will have a cluster law under discussion as the next item on the agenda. This cluster law was dealt with by the government as three drafts, but a draft was brought to the Riigikogu. The cluster law, which is intended to raise taxes as a matter of urgency, gives the opposition only three days to table amendments. A cluster law for which there is no suggestion of compromise on any matter. As proposed by the government, the majority of the Riigikogu should vote as a rubber stamp. The opposition has many opportunities to make such activities uncomfortable. One of the possibilities used by the Free Party and the Centre Party is to collect signatures from people. Tomorrow, the Committee on Monetary Affairs will discuss the first proposal. Over 14,000 signatures have already been collected at the Centre Party. We also have the opportunity to prevent such rules of procedure from being rolled over in the Riigikogu. That is why we are starting to prevent over-crowding already during the procedure of the draft law that we are currently dealing with. We're going to take procedural breaks. The aim is that tax increases, which are unnegotiated in society and are not necessary, should not be subject to speed in the Riigikogu. It doesn't have to be convenient to accept them. Every member of the Riigikogu, who is a member of an absolute power union, can hold back such tax increases with his or her vote. So we are taking advantage of the opportunities we have, but surely every member of the Social Democratic Party, the IRL and also the Reform Party must be aware that in the coming financial years it will be possible to waive the additional tax on hotels and to prevent increased excise duty. In order to give you time to think about the importance of your vote, we will take breaks in the forthcoming votes, for which the law has given us the right. Thank you for your attention. I will also hand over a proposal to suspend the processing of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U317	I ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair, Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U318	I wanted to say a few things in response to the previous speaker, Kadri Samson. The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I don't think I'm gonna find any cluster bill on the agenda today. Linking this draft law to the processing of the draft law on insurance business is, in my opinion, somewhat arbitrary. However, with regard to the planned breaks, it has to be said that, yes, Members of Parliament, of course, have this right. Now for the content of the specific draft. Kadri Simson referred to a letter from the Association of Insurance Undertakings concerning § 182. I'm just going to make a little comment here to make this clear. In fact, the basic regulation will not change as a result of the addition voted on by the Commission. Paragraph 182 still does not permit the principal activity of the broker to be transferred. The exemption is limited to the transmission and execution of the insurance interest questionnaire drawn up by the broker, i.e. where the cooperation of the leasing company with the customer can be narrowly limited to the completion of the questionnaire and not to the determination of the substance of the insurance interest. Here you somehow called into question the coalition's or opposition's voices. I recall this meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. There was a relatively free-form debate on how to regulate this matter. Even without the addition to which reference was made here, cooperation between the broker and the client would not have been excluded. Rather, this regulation is clearer and the Financial Supervision Authority will continue to monitor this area. As far as these amendments are concerned, I have said in about 10 replies that this regulation is intended to be drawn up. But I would like to congratulate the Centre Party Group on an amendment, which I also emphasised in my speech. This is Amendment 32, which is essentially taken into account and concerns the amendment of the Law of Obligations Act and the remuneration, interest and dependence of the credit agreement on whether the debtor, or the customer, enters into the insurance contract itself or through the cooperation partner appointed by the creditor. This regulation to ensure that the customer is as good as possible... Mr Anvelt, I am answering Mrs Samson's questions right now, I am so sorry! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] ... to protect the interests of the client as well as possible, this proposal has been taken into account in essence, as the initiator of the Ministry of Finance, supplemented it a little, and it was also coordinated with the Ministry of Justice. I think this is a substantive and absolutely correct change. Once again, however, I do not understand the connection between the draft law on insurance business and the next draft. This delay in voting on amendments to the Act on Insurance Activities is not, in my opinion, justified. A cluster bill, if that is not what we have on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U319	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U320	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, True, I must join the ladies on a tour in the hallway in wonder that half the people are empty. They were interested in what the MPs did during their work. I explained to them that the opposition is sitting mostly in the hall, but as soon as there's a signal that it's going to be a vote, like a wasp swarm, the coalition will fly in to press a nicely green button. That's what they call a rubber stamp. We also see this rubber stamp thing in the process of dealing with the insurance bill. It is clear that the Insurance Act is not necessary for Estonia. It is clear that this law has been done again overly, reading out of the European directives the need to do so. It is clear that in Estonia, things are in perfect order at the moment. And yet the coalition flies in, pushes the green button, and slaps its rubber stamp under a completely unnecessary law. I would like to say as little as the members of the coalition are now in the hall... I'd like more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U321	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U322	Thank you. The first amendment is a very good amendment. I am therefore asking for a vote on this. But before the vote, for the members of the coalition to make it to the hall, please take a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U323	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. There are 34 members against 49 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the commission has rejected the proposal. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U324	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the first amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 38 votes to 52 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. A second amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U325	Thank you. I ask for the second amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U326	Thank you. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U327	Thank you. Before the vote, I ask you for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U328	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U329	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the second amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please take a stand and vote. 35 votes for and 48 against, no one abstained. The proposal was not supported. The third amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. This proposal has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U330	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U331	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U332	Thank you, Mr President. As the fourth proposal is more systematic than the previous one, which has been voted off, we are asking for a vote on it!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U333	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U334	Thank you, Mr President. Ten minutes of intermission before the vote, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U335	Please! Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U336	Good fellows! I also noticed that we are currently having a round of procedural questions, not a round of negotiations. If you want to ask questions, they should be about the procedure. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U337	Yes! Juhan Parts interpreted our thinking as a stretch. I find that insulting.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U338	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please take a stand and vote. By 31 and against 52 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U339	Mr President, I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U340	Juhan Parts, please! [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U341	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U342	The break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the fifth amendment tabled by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. By 77 and against 3 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was supported. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U343	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U344	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U345	Thank you. I have such an announcement on behalf of the Free Party Group that, since this principle of the insurance cooperative fell out earlier, these amendments are unsystematic and we will no longer put the proposals to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U346	Thank you. I'm sure you know better than I do that you don't have to say that. But it's nice of you to say that. Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U347	I would like to say that as a member of the Riigikogu, I have the opportunity to decide whether or not to support the proposed amendments to the Act on Insurance Activities. Good practice requires that the vote should be well prepared. I've been doing it, I've been working on it all week. I'm ready to vote so I don't waste any time. But my question about the procedure was inspired by Mr. Mart Helme. He drew attention to the coalition road roller tactics. The coalition doesn't act like a roller coaster in this hall. I am absolutely certain that each of the 59 members of the coalition will decide independently whether or not to support the proposed amendments to the Act on Insurance Activities. What if an opposition patrol has arrived in this hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U348	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will now finish the procedural questions... Mikhail Stalnukhin, please, last procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U349	Yes, I do have a procedural question. Who is delaying the sitting now, isn't it, Mr Parts?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U350	It seems to me that the main delay here is the President. Let's get on with it! We are at the seventh amendment. This has been presented by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 21), and against 51 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. The Steering Committee is the Committee on Monetary Affairs on this issue. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U351	Thank you. I would like to thank everyone who spoke about ethics, but I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on, and before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U352	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U353	The break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. We have come at a speedy pace to the eighth amendment, which has been tabled by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. There are 66 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was supported. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U354	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U355	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U356	Ladies and gentlemen, the break taken by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the ninth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The decision of the Governing Commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 15 votes to 47 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Let's keep going. Amendment 10. Colleagues Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U357	Thank you. I wanted to draw attention to the word of Juhan Parts...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U358	The break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the sixth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 22), and against 52 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U359	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment. Before the vote, we wish to take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U360	Are you sure? Thank you. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U361	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. Juhan Parts, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U362	Thank you. I would simply point out that you should say in advance what was the Commission's position on the amendment proposal. Then it would be easier for us to decide. You didn't say that a few times.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U363	Thank you, good co-worker. You have greater experience in working here in the Riigikogu, so I will draw on what you said in the future. Although I assume that the proposal of the commission has always been supported. But you can repeat that, it's not difficult for the manager, and I will. Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U364	Thank you! I actually have a procedural question. Each vote shall be adjourned to 10 minutes, although in fact there could be six or five minutes. Some of the amendments are very short and could also be discussed more briefly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U365	Don't draw attention! Do you have a procedural question or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U366	Thank you. That is a very good procedural question. Surely you, your group, have the right to propose that shorter breaks be taken than ten minutes. Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U367	Mr. Marrand just inspired me. I was reminded that we, the previous Riigikogu, adopted a historical document, the good practice of a member of the Riigikogu. I read it during the break. In my opinion, what we are doing now is hypothetically contrary to a number of points of good practice. After the adoption of the best practice of a member of the Riigikogu, we have for the first time such regular breaks, which are obviously contrary to some of the points of this practice. I fully understand if the manager is unable to assess whether such systematic breaks are in accordance with the good practice of a member of the Riigikogu. Therefore, during the next break, I ask that the Committee on Ethics of the Riigikogu, or some department, be given the task of determining the urgency assessment for the next vote. I dare mention points 2, 7 and 14. I am speaking now because, according to the last point of good practice of a member of the Riigikogu, a member of the Riigikogu, if he notices a hypothetical violation of this practice, must immediately report it. [[Laughter in the hall. Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U368	Thank you. I'm sure we'll consider your proposal on the board. We've been thinking about that today. It seems to us now that constitutional order is guaranteed and there are no problems here, but if you see that this issue should be moved forward, you are certainly welcome to our extended meeting. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U369	Thank you. As a result of what I said earlier, I noticed that the next draft law is a draft cluster law. I noticed it right away.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U370	Thank you. Let's stick to the procedural questions right now. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U371	I have the same idea as Mr Tammel. I wanted to thank my colleague, the Ducks. Yes, indeed, we noticed here that, contrary to all good practices, there is once again a draft cluster law in the Riigikogu. Save what? If he had the right to withdraw this bill and start processing the three drafts normally, as planned, by discussing it with the Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U372	Thank you. Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U373	What time will the board meet to discuss whether this delay is in line with the good practice of a member of the Riigikogu? I'm asking so I can participate. You've made a public invitation to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U374	When the board meets, I'm sure we'll let you know exactly. Fruit Savisaar-Toomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U375	Thank you, Mr President. How can I interpret the draft law on insurance business as a draft law? Maybe the manager can explain it to me?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U376	I can't. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U377	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm delighted you've gathered so many in this hall. You don't usually have that many of you here. I wanted to express my gratitude to Juhan Parts and everyone else who has spoken now. They have obviously realised that they have been wrong about good practice when the opposition is rolled over all the time, and have also decided in favour of a staggering tactic. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U378	The break taken by the Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 12th amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. by 64, against 1, with no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Let's keep going. Amendment 13. For the ninth time, Valeri Korb has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U379	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U380	The break taken by the Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 13th amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. by 61 votes to 1, with no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 14. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U381	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on, and before that, I would like to ask for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U382	Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U383	The break taken by the Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 14th amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. by 55, no one opposed, with one abstention. The proposal was supported. Amendment 15. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U384	Thank you. I would also like to vote on this amendment, and before that we would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U385	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U386	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U387	Thank you. I ask that we vote on this amendment and take a ten-minute break before voting.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U388	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U389	The break taken by the Centre Party Group has ended. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the tenth amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. 59 members of the Riigikogu, against 2 with no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Let's keep going. Amendment 11. Colleagues Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U390	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U391	The break taken by the Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 11th amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. by 65 votes to none, with one abstention. The proposal was supported. Amendment 12. Colleagues Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U392	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on and for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U393	Let's vote anyway. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U394	The break taken by the Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 19th amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Governing Commission has taken full account of this proposal. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 58 members of the Riigikogu), with 1 abstention, no one opposed. The proposal was supported. Amendment 20. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U395	Thank you. I would like to vote on Amendment 20, but before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U396	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U397	The break taken by the Centre Party Group is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 20. Please take a stand and vote. There were 55 members of the Riigikogu in favour of Amendment 20, no one opposed, with 3 abstentions. The proposal has been accepted. Amendment 21 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U398	Thank you. I would like to ask for the vote on Amendment 21 and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U399	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U400	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U401	The break taken by the Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 15th amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The position of the commission is to take this fully into account. Please take a stand and vote. by 49 parliamentarians, against 13, with 2 abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 16. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U402	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U403	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U404	The break taken by the Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 16th amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. There are 54 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 17. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U405	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U406	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U407	The break taken by the Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 17th amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Governing Commission has taken full account of this proposal. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 56, with one abstention, there is no one against. The proposal was supported. Let's keep going. Amendment 18. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U408	Thank you. I ask for the 18th amendment to be voted on. Before the vote, I shall take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U409	The break taken by the Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 18th amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. There are 55 members of the Riigikogu with one abstention, no one opposed. The proposal was supported. Amendment 19. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U410	Thank you. I would like to vote on this amendment, but before that, we would like to have a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U411	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U412	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I would like to ask for the 27th amendment to be voted and for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U413	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U414	I shall put to the vote Amendment 26, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has been taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 53 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents, no abstentions. The proposal has been taken into account. Amendment 27. Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U415	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 21, which has been tabled and has also been taken into account by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. There were 53 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment, no one opposed and 2 abstentions. The amendment was supported. Amendment 22 tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U416	Thank you. I would like to ask for a vote on Amendment 22 and a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U417	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U418	I shall put to the vote Amendment 25 tabled and taken into account by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. 56 members of the Riigikogu were neither opposed nor impartial. The amendment was supported. Amendment 26. Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U419	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U420	I shall put to the vote Amendment 22 tabled and taken into account by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. There were 51 members of the Riigikogu in favour of Amendment 22; there was no one against and one abstention. The proposal has been accepted. Amendment 23. Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U421	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I would like to vote on Amendment 23, but before that we would like to have a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U422	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U423	I shall put to the vote Amendment 23 tabled and taken into account by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. There were 49 parliamentarians in favour of this amendment, 11 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was supported. Amendment 24. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U424	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on and for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U425	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U426	I shall put to the vote Amendment 24, tabled and taken into account by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. There were 52 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment, no respondents or abstentions. The amendment was supported. Amendment 25. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U427	Thank you. I would like to vote on Amendment 25, but before that, we would like to have a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U428	Thank you. I would like to vote on this amendment and, before the vote, we would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U429	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U430	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U431	I shall put to the vote Amendment 28. Please take a stand and vote. There were 58 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The amendment was supported. Amendment 29. Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U432	The break taken by the Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 31st amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has proposed that this amendment be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 67 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, no respondents and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 32. Amendment 33. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U433	I shall put to the vote Amendment 27, which is tabled and accounted for by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. There were 57 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 28. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U434	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I would like to ask for a vote on Amendment 28 and a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U435	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I ask you to vote on this amendment, but before voting, we ask for ten minutes of intermission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U436	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U437	I shall put to the vote Amendment 29, which has been fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 58 members of the Riigikogu, no one was against or impartial. The proposal was supported. Proposal No 30. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U438	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu, I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal and, before the vote, ten minutes of intermission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U439	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U440	The break taken by the Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 30th amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has also proposed that this amendment be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 63 delegates in favour, no respondents, no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 31: Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U441	Thank you. I would like to vote on this amendment, but before that, we would like to have a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U442	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U443	Thank you. I would like to vote on this amendment, but before that, we would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U444	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U445	The break taken by the Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 33rd amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has also proposed that this amendment be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 70 members of the population voted in favour of the proposal, there were no votes against or abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 34. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U446	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment and, before the vote, ten minutes of intermission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U447	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U448	The break taken by the Centre Party Group has ended. I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act on Insurance Activities 8. Please take a stand and vote. There are 38 in favour and 56 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U449	The break taken by the Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 37th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There are 33 members of the Riigikogu, 52 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. We have now examined and voted on all the amendments in detail. The Centre Party Group has proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act on Insurance Activities 8. Ladies and gentlemen, I vote on the Estonian Centre Party Group... Yes, Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U450	Thank you. Before this final and very important vote, I ask you to take a ten-minute break to think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U451	The break taken by the Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 34th amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which proposes that this amendment be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 62 members of the Riigikogu were neither opposed nor impartial. The proposal was supported. Amendment 35. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U452	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U453	Let's do it for sure. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U454	The break taken by the Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 35th amendment, which has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and which has been fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 64 parliamentarians voted in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 36. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U455	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. I ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U456	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U457	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U458	The break taken by the Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 36th amendment, which has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, also proposing that this amendment be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 62 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, no respondents and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 37. I also recall, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the last opportunity to take part in the vote on the amendments today. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U459	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. I ask for the 37th amendment to be voted and for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U460	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U461	Let's keep going. The second item is the first reading of the Bill 41 on Amendments to the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other Acts initiated by the Government of the Republic. For the presentation, Minister of Finance Sven Sester! Please, Priit Tobal, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U462	Thank you, Mr President. I do have a procedural question about the same item on the agenda. In item 2 of today's agenda, the Act on Social Tax, Income Tax and Other Laws, which is being discussed by the Government of the Republic, is undoubtedly a cluster law. On 29 May, Kadri Simson, Chairman of the Centre Party Group, addressed the President of the Riigikogu in a letter proposing that this cluster law be divided into three separate draft laws. Last Monday, the Chairman of the Riigikogu replied that he felt it was necessary for the Board of the Riigikogu to deal with this issue, and on 2 June, the Bureau discussed this issue. The Chairman of the Riigikogu writes that the possibility of three divisions is only possible if the commission proposes to divide the existing draft cluster law into three. It's true. However, in order to take the draft into parliamentary procedure, the decision is made by the Riigikogu Board, not by the commission. I ask you, as a member of the Board of the Riigikogu and the chairman of the current sitting, why the Board of the Riigikogu agreed to take the draft cluster law into procedure when the letter, signed by Eiki Nestor on 2 June, essentially recognises that it is a cluster law. For what reasons did the Riigikogu Board adopt a draft law that does not comply with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U463	The Board of the Riigikogu took the draft into procedure because it was submitted by the Government of the Republic. And as you learned from the written answer, the Commission has the opportunity to split it up, split it up in two or three, add it up, subtract it up. It is the responsibility of the Commission, not the Bureau. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U464	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking about two different stages. You are talking about the draft that is pending, I am talking about this stage if the Board of the Riigikogu has not yet adopted the draft. If the Government of the Republic has sent a draft for parliamentary procedure, the role of the governing board of the Riigikogu is to decide whether to take the draft into the procedure, not to be merely a writing pigeon. For what reasons did the Riigikogu Board take the draft into procedure, when it was already known that it was a cluster law? The governing board of the Riigikogu itself has established a procedure for the regulation of drafts to be processed in the Riigikogu, in which chapter 2 entitled 'Provisions for the draft law' states: 'The bill of law is drawn up for the legal regulation of the same type of social relations... ' How do you see the link between raising VAT on hotels and amending the Health Insurance Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U465	The Management Board of the Riigikogu found that the draft is in accordance with the current Riigikogu law on the house and rules of procedure and took the draft into the procedure. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U466	Thank you. I have a procedural question, but before that, I have a request: it's late, but Juhan Parts is making very strange noises in this hall, maybe he's restraining himself! . [[Laughter in the hall]] This draft law passed the round of coordination within the government in three separate drafts. It was handed over to the Riigikogu in one package as a cluster law, obviously because of the fact that the normal procedure was hindered. Why does the Board of the Riigikogu agree to a process in which the government discusses three laws for the sake of clarity, but transfers them to the Riigikogu as a cluster?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U467	Thank you. First of all, Mr Parts, I would ask you not to make any personal noises so that you do not disturb colleagues. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Your question as to why three drafts were sent to the coordination circle, but it was decided to submit them to the Riigikogu in one draft, but it is certain that the representative of the government will be able to answer. I believe that the Minister for Finance, as a representative of the Government, will give an exhaustive answer to this. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U468	Thank you, Mr President. My second question concerns the lead committee on this draft. The Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure provide that each draft is to appoint a lead committee in accordance with this area. This cluster law also regulates, for example, the amendment of the Health Insurance Fund Act. How common will it be in this Parliament in the future that social legislative proposals will be dealt with by the Committee on Monetary Affairs? Perhaps it is wise to set up a committee in Parliament, the Committee on Monetary Affairs? After all, the Ministry of Finance is involved in all fields.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U469	It seems to me that your questions are motivated by a desire to delay time, not by substantive and procedural matters. In particular, issues relating to the health insurance fund and taxes are also the subject of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I believe that the Bureau has taken the right decision when it specifically referred this draft to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the agenda. The presentation is given by Minister of Finance Sven Sester. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U470	Dear Parliament, good evening to you all. Here I will give you an overview of the draft law amending the Social Tax Act, amending the Income Tax Act and amending other laws, which is numbered 41. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law on the amendment of tax laws before you is a comprehensive package of tax changes under the Government Union Treaty, which together shifts the tax burden from labour to consumption. The draft consists of tax changes aimed specifically at this objective, which have also been taken into account by the government in putting together the budgetary strategy for the next four years. I would stress that only amendments to tax laws have been incorporated into the draft. The necessary amendments to the Health Insurance Fund Act and to the Health Services Organisation Act are necessary for the sake of legal clarity and do not change the principles of those laws. In addition, I would like to make it clear that the changes brought together in the draft were also in the form of separate drafts before they were submitted to the government. On the one hand, this was done because of the expediency, because the target groups to which the drafts were submitted were somewhat different, while on the other hand it was due to different times when the drafts were drawn up. Based on the decisions taken by the previous Riigikogu to take into account the date of entry into force of at least six months for tax changes imposing obligations on taxpayers, we have brought a single tax package into Parliament's procedure as early as possible before the beginning of the next financial year. Now to the content of the changes. The draft amends the Income Tax Act by increasing the overall tax-free rate over four years to reach EUR 205 per month by 2019. If the tax exemption is currently EUR 154 per month, it will be EUR 2040 per year in 2016, EUR 170 per month in 2017, EUR 2161 per year in 2017, EUR 180 per month in 2018, EUR 2280 per month in 2018, EUR 190 per month and EUR 2460 per year in 2019, EUR 205 per month. The rate of additional tax-free pension income will be increased from the current 220 euros to 225 euros per month as of 1 January 2016. It continues to keep an average pension not exceeding EUR 395 per month exempt from income tax. As regards the plan to increase child benefits, the additional tax-free income for child maintenance will be decoupled from the overall tax-free rate and fixed at the current level: EUR 1848 per year, or EUR 154 per month. In order to cover the cost of reducing labour taxes, the overall threshold for deductions in the income of a natural person shall be reduced from EUR 1920 to EUR 1200 per year. The limit applies to the deduction of interest on a mortgage, training costs and charity donations. In order to facilitate the making of donations, the current 5% rate for their deduction is waived. From 2016 onwards, the costs of driving schools as well as adult interest training are no longer considered as deductible costs. There will be no change in the cost of vocational and refresher training and in the structure of the expenditure related to recreational education for young people up to 18 years of age and will remain deductible. The bill sets up the rules on the taxation of rental income and provides for a 20% deduction for a natural person from the rent of the dwelling to cover the rental costs. In addition, the daily allowance for travelling abroad for up to 15 days will be increased from 32 euros to 50 euros per day. The change will have a positive impact on the business environment. If the period of secondment exceeds 15 days or there are more than 15 days in total in the same calendar month, the daily allowance for subsequent days shall continue to be exempt at a rate of EUR 32. Amendments to the Social Tax Act will bring the social tax rate down to 32.5% in 2017 and 32% in 2018. This shifts the tax burden from labour to consumption and is part of the government's wider plan to boost the economy and increase people's income. The amendment will result in a reduction in corporate tax burden of EUR 40.5 million in 2017 and a reduction in corporate tax burden of at least EUR 86 million from 2018. The reduction in the social tax rate does not result in a change in the amount of funds received by the sickness fund, as the draft provides that the change in the income of the social tax is automatically fully covered by the other revenue of the state budget. I would point out that the transfer of appropriations is carried out at the same time as the transfer of social tax received and that the calculation and transfer of funds are carried out by the Tax and Customs Board. The amendments to the VAT Act will increase the VAT rate for accommodation services and breakfast services from 9% to 14% from the beginning of 2017. As a result of the increase in the tax rate, the price of accommodation services is estimated to increase by 3.2%. For example, a stay of 32 euros would cost 1 euro and a stay of 98 euros instead of 95 euros at the four-star hotel in Tallinn. It should also be taken into account that the destination is not chosen as a priority depending on the price of the accommodation service. Tourism demand is influenced by many factors, which have led to a higher number of tourists visiting Estonia than Vilnius and Riga, for example, despite more expensive accommodation services. The increase in the tax rate will increase the revenue of VAT by around EUR 10.2 million in 2017. In order to further increase the attractiveness of Estonia as a tourist country, the government has agreed to invest an additional €6 million in taxpayers' money between 2017 and 2019, i.e. €2 million each year. Greater attention will be paid to rural tourism. The Minister of Enterprise has almost a year and a half to develop additional measures that would develop tourism in Estonia and, as I said, rural tourism in particular. Amendments to excise legislation raise excise duties on alcohol and tobacco. The main objective is to reduce consumption as a public health measure. The additional objective is to increase the fiscal policy of the state, i.e. the state's tax revenue. Fuel excise duties will be increased with the aim of taxing energy products more equally, mainly on the basis of use and energy content, as well as increasing excise revenue and contributing to more sustainable consumption. The 10% increase in excise duty laid down by 1 January 2016 shall be replaced by a 15% increase in excise duty from 1 February. Postponement of excise increases excise duties in 2016 on excise goods taken into stock. In addition, excise duties on alcohol will be increased by 10% between 2019 and 2020. The excise duty on wine and fermented beverages with an alcoholic strength by volume of more than 6% shall be increased by 20% in the same years. The increase in excise duties on alcohol is estimated to result in an increase in excise and VAT revenue of EUR 22 million in 2016. The increase in excise duty is in line with the green paper on alcohol policy, price and tax policies. The 5% increase in excise duty on cigarettes and smoking tobacco for the years 2016 to 2018 will be replaced by an 8% increase in excise duty. The increase in excise duty in 2016 will be postponed from January to June to bring the increase in excise duty closer to the entry into force of the new Tobacco Directive. By way of derogation, the excise duty on cigars and cigarillos will not be increased as it is planned to analyse the rate of excise duty on these products, as is the case for cigarettes. In addition, excise duties on tobacco will be increased by 10% between 2019 and 2020. The increase in excise duties on tobacco results in an additional EUR 24 million in revenue from excise duties and VAT in 2016. The rise in tobacco excise duty is in line with the tax policy measures of the Green Paper on tobacco policy, which requires tobacco prices to rise at least at the same rate as the consumer price index. The main objective of the excise duty on energy products is to tax energy products more equally, mainly on the basis of their use of motor fuels or heating fuels and their energy content. The additional objective is to increase the revenue of the state budget. The excise duty on petrol will be increased by 10% in the three following years. The excise duty on diesel fuel shall be increased by 14% from 1 January 2016 and by 10% in 2017 and 2018. Due to the desire for a more equal taxation of diesel and petrol and given the energy content of these fuels, the increase in excise duty on diesel will be higher in 2016. The increase in excise duty on light fuel oil shall follow precisely the increase in excise duty on diesel fuel. It is stipulated that the excise duty rate on special-purpose diesel will be 27% of the excise duty on diesel as of 2016. The rate of excise duty on heavy fuel oil shall be increased to EUR 58 per 1000 kilograms and oil shale fuel oil to EUR 57 per 1000 kilograms in 2016. The rate of excise duty on solid fuels for heat production, namely coal, lignite, coke and oil shale, will rise from EUR 0,3 to EUR 0,93 per gigajoule of their GCV. The increase in excise duties on fuel will result in an additional EUR 64.7 million in revenue from excise duties and VAT in 2016. The deadline for the payment of excise duty shall be postponed from the 15th day of the calendar month to the 20th day, which shall enable operators to cope better with the obligation to pay excise duty. This is an overview of the main changes to the draft, which together shifts the tax burden from labour to consumption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U471	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U472	Thank you, manager. Minister of Finance! I'm asking if the government's gonna count on anyone if he's gonna force this cluster bill here. The electorate, of course, did not give a mandate to increase the price of fuel, because no one spoke of increasing the price of fuel before the elections. So it can actually be said that this government, too, has been given a mandate by fraud. Employers do not support this bill; the Estonian Taxpayers' Association does not support it. Do you know whether, apart from the IRL, Sots and Reform Party, anyone in Estonia will support this bill, these tax packages and unhealthy economic competition? Do you have any data that supports this beyond those politicians who are in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U473	Thank you. You are inaccurate about your question, but you have this right as a Member of Parliament. I will, of course, specify what your inaccuracies are about. Some business organisations, providing feedback on these tax changes, have also said something positive. They have said that a 1% reduction in social tax is rather small, and they wanted this percentage to be higher. Of course, a fall of 1% to the state budget would mean an additional burden of EUR 90 million, and once again the question would be what this would be at the expense of. The Confederation of Employers and the Chamber of Commerce have said that they would rather look at further tax reductions. On several occasions, the House has said that one could think of a situation where it would not rise. I would remind you that the government's previous plan was to increase the preferential VAT on hotels to the standard VAT, from 9% to 20%. In a letter addressed to both the Minister for Finance and the Prime Minister, the Chamber of Commerce said that in this case they would see a possible increase of 2% from 2017 and then 2% in the following years, which would ultimately have been more than 14% arithmetically, which we are now seeing on this table. So in this sense you were inaccurate that there are certainly measures within these tax changes that have been supported by different organisations.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U474	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U475	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Everything in this world has a reason and a reason, and these are very different things. When excise duty on fuel was born, the reason was to find additional means to maintain the roads. Right now, we've gone a long way from this idea. My question is, do you see any connection between the initial cause of the increase in fuel excise? Does the excise duty on fuel rise because roads need more investment, or is it simply because 15 years of reform party governance has created such a huge lack of money that the current government is trying to tax indiscriminately everything that it can get? So soon the queue will reach the water and bread, and the church crosses will also be taxed? How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U476	Thank you for your question. There are a number of objectives for increasing excise duties on fuel, and one objective is certainly that, while in the meantime one government has really divided between the share of fuel excise and the share of money invested in roads, the money invested in roads must increase over time. In part, excise duties on fuel are always aimed at more sustainable use. That's the case for every excise duty. In the case of tobacco and alcohol duty, the clear objective is to reduce the consumption of these products. Thinking about sustainability, reviewing your spending package. So there are several aspects here. We cannot fail to say that, in the end, excise duties on fuel will always have a clear fiscal objective. The increase in excise duties makes it possible to implement a number of measures, including an increase in child benefits, a tax refund for low-wage earners and, for example, a 1% reduction in social tax. There are quite a few goals. However, the fiscal side is certainly not at the forefront at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U477	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U478	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. A year ago, IRL criticised the government of the newly created Social Democrats and Reform Party and their decisions to raise various taxes. Urmas Reinsalu, President of the IRL, even named the last Thursday of May last year as a black Thursday, because several tax increases were passed by law that day. And if we recall, the IRL has promised to bring home expenses down, but today you support a number of tax increases that make fuels more expensive. Why do you contribute to another increase in home expenses, and how do you explain your rapid change of heart?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U479	Thank you, good questioner! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good people who listen to sessions online outside the Riigikogu hall! I will tell you why these changes are important. If we adopt these changes, the tax-free income of Estonian people will increase every year in the near future, reaching EUR 154 per month by 2019 to EUR 205 per month. In addition, for information to all pensioners: the average pension will remain exempt, EUR 395 per month will continue to be exempt from income tax. This decision was taken by the Government of the Republic a few years ago, and regardless of which coalition has been in power, the average pension has continued to be exempt from income tax. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition, I say to all those companies whose employees go on a permanent foreign mission: for many years, more specifically, for decades, the daily allowance for missions has been EUR 32; it will now be EUR 50. The social tax will be reduced by 0.5% in 2017 and 2018 so that in 2018 it will be 1% lower than today. The state budget expenditure in this respect is EUR 40 million in 2017 and will increase to almost EUR 90 million by 2018. It's a cost for the state budget. If this is a cost in the sense of the state budget, then it follows that someone else has this income. It is a revenue for Estonian entrepreneurs, giving them the opportunity to raise wages or make additional investments. Ladies and gentlemen, these are examples of what will happen as a result of this draft. This gives us the opportunity to say that people will have more money in the coming years, thanks to this bill, compared to today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U480	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U481	Thank you. Honourable performer! I'm just enjoying your talent. The present performance here is like a really good television humour show. Keep up the good work! I think you'll get a lot of votes in the future. Because if we hear how much life gets better tonight, it'll make us all feel better. I especially liked one thing. You are concerned about the future of Europe's most wine-loving people, that they will not drink enough in the future to improve their health. And here's the question. Do I have the right to hope that at least one of the aims of raising excise duties on motor fuel is to maintain human health so that our fathers and mothers can walk more and drive less. Am I right to hope for that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U482	Thank you, good questioner! Your question was a very correct observation. In Estonia, consumption of absolute alcohol is at a very high level, and the increase in excise duty as one of the measures of alcohol policy will help to reduce this consumption. If you ask whether the increase in excise duties on fuel may have something to do with the improvement of the health of an Estonian person, then I think that yes, it can.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U483	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U484	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Sven, I have a purely technical question. When I examined the draft, I inevitably reached the last sentence of page 30 of the explanatory memorandum: 'In Part 6 of this explanatory memorandum, we assessed the impact of the increase in excise duty on business, consumers and the environment. ' Well, clearly, I started to look at that part of the 6th. There are two types of numbering in this explanatory memorandum. At first you will find on page 50 section 6 with Roman numerals, this is 'Acts of Application'. There is one line that there are no implementing acts. After you go on, you will find the sixth part again and this is 'Coordination of the draft, stakeholder involvement and public consultation'. Why the quality, is anyone even in control of such things?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U485	Thank you. If you look at the explanatory memorandum to this draft, it is not a one-page document and there is a clear quality not only in the impact analyses of the draft, but also in the quantity. If you specifically draw attention to one or the other table, we will review them during this draft, in three readings. Each table must be in the right place, and if it is not in the right place, it will be sent to you as a Member, and not only to you, but also to all other Members. There must certainly be a complete information package in the final procedure of the draft. However, I assure you that analysts have worked to understand how one or the other measure will actually affect what its future effects will be. Positive and negative scenarios have been taken into account. For example, it must always be taken into account that the implementation of a specific measure could increase, for example, the smuggling side, the cross-border side. These are natural issues and have also been taken into account in impact assessments.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U486	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U487	Thank you, Honourable Manager. Good minister! What is the most pleasant thing about money? In the case of money, the most pleasant thing is to be read. I mean, when excise duties rise, excise duties rise, so does electricity. I specifically ask about school food. You voted out of the procedure a draft for setting and raising the price of school food. Can you tell me how lean school food gets after the increase in excise duties and the appreciation of all things?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U488	Thank you. I will try to be very constructive throughout this evening, but I will try very clearly to remain within the framework of the draft. If we come to other issues outside this draft, we will discuss them while the specific draft is in the process.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U489	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U490	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. The draft requires that, if until now, the rent income is declared by one in ten landlords, then after these changes, seven out of ten landlords will do so. If you look at the measures described in the draft explanatory memorandum, you will not understand what optimism is about. My question is of a fine-tuning nature. What measures does the Tax and Customs Board intend to make landlords declare rental income?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U491	Thank you. I'm gonna start from a distance. Since you spoke first of all about perpetuum mobile, I say that if you look at the structure of expenditure and revenue, you will see that, on the one hand, the state budget has a cost side and, on the other hand, a revenue side, and this is clearly a balancing situation. Both income and expenses are visible. As far as analyses and their credibility are concerned, the opposition has always had the question of whether the analyses prepared in ministries, as well as in Eesti Pank and the various centres where analytical capabilities exist can be believed. Having also been in opposition myself and seen a number of analyses that have come from the Ministry of Finance, and especially now that I myself work at the Ministry of Finance's house and have more contact with these people, I can assure you that I have no doubt that these analyses are true. There may always be situations where an analysis-based forecast has not been completed at the level that is expected for any reason, and vice versa the results are better than those predicted. By the way, according to the analyses carried out prior to the introduction of the EUR 1000 billing obligation, an additional EUR 40 million had to come into the state budget, but at the moment only this one measure has brought EUR 80 million into the state budget. So it's gone one way or the other. However, looking at macro-economic indicators, the big picture, it can be said that what analysts have predicted is generally what figures, results and visions of the future have happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U492	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U493	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Dear Minister, You have already mentioned at the beginning of this item that in neighbouring countries the VAT rate for accommodation facilities is higher than is currently the case in Estonia. I look from the statistics that as of 1 January it was indeed 12% in Lithuania and Latvia. While the leading party of the coalition has stressed the need to catch up with the Nordic countries, we are thinking, however, of living standards, not of rising prices or of the number of refugees, I would rather develop this narrative here at the night session so that we can reach the level of Western Europe instead. In Luxembourg, this value added tax is 3%, in Belgium and the Netherlands 6%, in Germany 7%. How does your sincere faith and conviction that this severe price increase will help us to get closer to the Nordic countries? We could really better take the example of successful and prosperous Western European countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U494	Thank you. I think that any increase in prices in any sector must always be carefully considered. Any increase in prices is likely to have an adverse effect on competition, and those who make such decisions must be prepared to explain them, not only to clarify them, but to come up with and offer mitigation options, especially in the light of their immediate neighbours. If currently the preferential VAT rate for hotel services in Estonia is 9%, then our standard rate is 20%. At the same time, this rate is 10% in Austria, 10% in Spain, 10% in Italy, 10% in France, 10% in Finland, 12% in Lithuania, 12% in Latvia, 12% in Sweden, 15% in the Czech Republic, 18% in Hungary, 20% in Slovakia, 20% in Great Britain and 25% in Denmark. This is the current rate. Now it is always the question of what political decision one country or another wants to take. If the Estonian state adopts a decision to increase the VAT rate for hotel accommodation in a year and a half, leaving it still a preferential VAT rate, the Estonian state, together with this decision, will also adopt a decision to channel additional taxpayers' money of 6 million euros specifically into this sector, even more specifically rural tourism. The necessity of this decision came out clearly when speaking to stakeholders. Stakeholders said that rural tourism is the most vulnerable sector in Estonia. Over the next year and a half, the Minister for Enterprise is in the process of developing these measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U495	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U496	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. Your coalition partner, the Reform Party, has claimed that the average salary will increase by approximately 26% over the next four years. Consequently, both social tax and income tax revenues will increase by 26%. Why the government is planning an increase in excise duty and VAT at all, aggravating the situation of taxpayers and businesses when, as a result of the promised wage increases, tax receipts will be almost twice as high as you now want to tax. Or is this a wage rise promise another scam and dim?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U497	Thank you, my good colleague. This question has been asked before, and I think it is very reasonable to take care of these things in this Chamber. One very specific knowledge for all the newest parliamentary politicians: a very large part of future revenue is already automatically linked to our costs, pension increases and health insurance benefits. The percentage of costs, as many institutions and organisations have said, is too high. There is too little flexibility to allow politicians to say what policy measures they would like to take in the future. This is a very small amount of measures that could be directed with a free hand in the future. So in answer to your question, a large amount of this money has already been automatically planned in the state budget in accordance with previously adopted laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U498	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U499	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, According to you, the analyses show that tax increases will bring specific amounts to the budget. Unfortunately, we have a recent example of the VAT regime for company cars, which also provided for specific revenue for the state budget, but in fact, the money received is considerably less. Will the Minister resign if his estimated tax receipts are not realised after tax increases?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U500	Thank you. The aim is not to increase the tax burden. The aim, as I have said, is to shift the tax burden from labour to consumption. A very clear goal! And, as you can see, the fiscal policy changes that are in this comprehensive tax package are saying this explicitly. You will see that these changes leave more money in the hands of a man, and that he knows what he is doing with that money. The alternative would have been for the state to increase taxes on labour, not for companies to reduce social tax, but vice versa, to raise corporate tax to a higher level. The state would collect more money and it would be wiser to say what it is doing with that money. The current coalition is based on a different logic: rather, the person and the entrepreneur are wiser, they know what they want to do with this money. The State has said that the revenue related to the labour force should decrease and the revenue related to consumption should increase as a result of tax neutrality.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U501	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U502	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Secretary of Finance! Everyone here is asking you why you want to raise so much taxes. I would be happy to come to your aid and support you in raising some taxes. I read in the explanatory memorandum to your draft cluster law that the draft plans to increase the country's tax revenues by increasing the excise duty on alcohol and tobacco products. If I look at the table of alcohol duty rates, these rates are very different. What do you think about the approximation of alcohol duty rates in the rising direction so that everyone is the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U503	Thank you. There have been different opinions and also conflicting opinions. Since I have so-called parliamentary history and I have been in the Committee on Monetary Affairs for a long time, I can tell you what the opinion of the members of the Central Party Group has been when the proposals for harmonising excise duty have been discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. One year ago, one such amendment was discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The opinion of the Centre Party has been that there should be no harmonisation. At that time, the coalition had social democrats and the Reform Party and opposition was the IRL and the Centre Party. When discussing this issue, opinions were divided both in the opposition and in the coalition. The Social Democrats and IRL were in favour of harmonisation at the time, opposed by the Centre Party and the Reform Party. This is now a year-old historical memory of the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. If we look at today, of course, there should not be such a situation that some debate should not be held. You have this bill on your desk today. If MEPs consider it necessary to amend the draft, including fiscal policy measures concerning alcohol, this option will always exist. On your desk, that's the position the government finally reached. Debates on possible harmonisation were also in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U504	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U505	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance! In the explanatory memorandum, I read as follows: given the share of fuel in the economy (2.9%), the maximum impact on the prices of goods and services would be approximately 0.15 percentage points. However, the price of goods and services is not only affected by excise duties on fuel, they are also affected by the increase in excise duties on alcohol. Alcohol is used, for example, in the confectionery industry and some of the finished products of the chemical industry. Why has it not been quantified how much excise duties on alcohol affect the prices of goods and services?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U506	Thank you. All impact analyses have been carried out. If you do not yet have the specific effect of increasing excise duties on alcohol and tobacco on inflation, we will certainly send you these data. All the tests have been done for today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U507	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, When we met in the hall about three hours ago, I told you you were gonna have a pretty long afternoon ahead of you. You said you'd be happy to answer, because you're enjoying it. From your answers, I see you were telling the truth. My question is that your ministry has decided to make a rental register. Please tell us who is not so familiar with the matter, a little more about what it is, and perhaps separately from what will be the penalties if the landlords have not been able or aware of their registration.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U508	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U509	Thank you, good questioner! I'll start from the beginning. I enjoy a good political debate, I enjoy it when the questioner knows what he wants to ask. This means that information is sought, that something is not understood, that there is a political debate and that there may be differences of opinion. This is good political practice and I really always enjoy this debate. As soon as it turns out that the aim is not to ask, but to just label or to do something like that, unfortunately, my answers are also getting shorter. As far as the rental register is concerned, the draft law under discussion does not yet mention the rental register. But I think it's a discussion place. If we take mortgages, they're registered somewhere: who's mortgaged, who's mortgaged, who's mortgaged. This is now the point of discussion as to whether we should also create an electronic rental register that will enter some specific data. It is expected that this data will not be available at all. I imagine this is the place where the term of the lease is fixed, when the contract is started, when the contract is terminated, maybe some more data. They could provide both parties, both the lessor and the lessor, with greater security. But I once again assure you that this is the level of the idea right now. I don't think that's a good idea, although it certainly has pros and cons. Moreover, I think that if the debate on this really begins, Parliament will certainly be a place where this issue could be discussed in the Commission, but why not also in the large Chamber. If this idea is implemented, it should, on the one hand, give certainty to both parties and, on the other hand, it should clean up the market itself, because there is a specific fixed presence in the rental market somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U510	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. My colleague Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U511	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm asking about the excise duty on special-marked diesel. Paragraphs 31, 32 and 33 of this bill raise the excise duty rate on diesel from the current EUR 110 to EUR 146. The increase in excise duty is 31.59%, and the first increase will come from 1 January next year. It is clear that farmers using this fuel and fuel play a very important role in the cost of agriculture. Do you agree that this kind of action will further increase the competitive advantages of Latvia and Lithuania, because they have specially labelled diesel exempted from excise duty? Have you carried out a study on this impact and what is the excise duty on specially labelled diesel used in agriculture in other European countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U512	Thank you. The Estonian economy is one of Europe's most transport-intensive, fuel-intensive economies than the rest of Europe. With regard to specially labelled diesel, Estonia has been moving steadily over time in order to reduce the use of so-called painted fuel. Looking at the last few years, its use has been abandoned in several areas, but it is still being used in some places. It is expected that in the future, we will need to review the whole concept of specific fuel-related measures. This, in turn, means that in the future, the state should look to those who specifically need additional subsidies by means of specific fuel labelling should be able to grant direct payments rather than using specific fuel labelling as a support instrument. This discussion has been held over the years by several governments and parliamentary formations. I believe that this discussion will continue, and at some point we will see that, at some point in the coming years, such an agreement will be reached, that there will be no need for the use of specially labelled fuel and that new measures will be found. Currently, specially labelled fuels have their own uses and, accordingly, some sectors can use this measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U513	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U514	Mr. Secretary of Finance! People who buy accommodation collect a considerable benefit for Estonia, also in the export sector. Do you think that the housekeeping business in our country has reached such a thriving sequel that you are going to take extra income from it more ruthlessly to the country? Increasing the tax burden is known to hinder growth and not motivate development, but rather stifle it. You know that very well. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U515	Thank you. You have a very correct point of view, in the case of excise increases and tax changes at all, it is always the question at which moments we say that it is difficult to anticipate changes in such a long-term way and with a negative side, and at what moments we say the positive side, i.e. the changes are predictable and understandable. These questions are always raised in lawmaking. Of course, we cannot review or rethink how a specific excise or tax policy will develop in our immediate neighbours, because we are not a country that is somewhere outside all borders. We have neighbours who behave in their own national interests when making their own tax policy decisions. We are now of the opinion that we need to monitor what our neighbours are doing. As you even said as a questioner, the information so far says that Finland, which has acquired a new government, does not raise tobacco excise duties in percentage terms, as we do here, but increases considerably more, and their reference or base price is quite different. Latvia has signalled that they are thinking about reviewing excise policy in the near future. It is certain that Estonia must monitor its immediate neighbours in its tax policy and always be prepared to reverse when the fiscal policy decisions of its immediate neighbours create a situation where Estonia is no longer competitive. As a result, the Government of the Republic has already deleted the 2019 fuel excise increase, which was originally planned, from the draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U516	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U517	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the reduction of the social tax rate from 33% to 32%. By the end of 2017, it will take EUR 33 million out of the health insurance fund and EUR 86 million in the next year, 2018. When I had the opportunity to communicate with the Prime Minister in this very hall, he assured me that money would not be taken away from somewhere and would be compensated from other sources. Now I read in the explanatory memorandum to the law that at first it is offset from other sources, and in the longer view the tax change increases the net income of employees. In fact, the money is still being taken away from the health insurance fund. Does it seem to you that our medicine is so well-off that almost 100 million could be taken from the health insurance fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U518	Thank you. Good questioner! I assure you and all listeners here: the resources of the Health Insurance Fund will not be reduced by this amendment to the bill. There's also a member of the Health Insurance Board in your ranks who can confirm what I say if he comes to the stand later. The state has committed itself to fully compensate the sickness fund for all the costs associated with reducing this percentage. Expenditure shall be covered by other revenue of the State budget. The social tax rate will be reduced by 0.5% in 2017 and by 1% as of 1 January 2018. The provision is transferred to the sickness fund at the same time as the transfer of social security contributions would have taken place. The reduction in tax receipts is therefore fully compensated for by the sickness fund at the same time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U519	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U520	Thank you. Good minister! The Taxpayers' Association has destructively assessed the process of processing your draft, both from the point of view of the procedure, of good legislative practice, and of the content of the draft, whose logic limps, which is full of contradictions and is extremely unprofessional. In any case, you already deserve the title of the taxpayer's enemy. Congratulations! Please explain to me, however, what is stated in page 3 (2) of the explanatory memorandum on the purpose of the draft law: 'The draft law envisages increasing the tax revenue of the State by increasing excise duties on alcohol and tobacco products... " Shouldn't the goal be to improve people's health? Please go to page 3, point 2, there is a serious problem with the formulation of the purpose of the bill. Please explain!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U521	Thank you, good questioner! In my explanation, I made it clear that, in the case of excise duties, mainly alcohol and tobacco, the first objective is to use it as a measure to improve public health. That is the first clear objective. The Minister of Health and Labour also explained this at the meeting of the Cabinet, gave an overview of statistical data and said that he would rather see an additional increase in excise duty in the near future than we have proposed in our draft law. I assure you: the first is a result of public health, and then the second is a fiscal one.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U522	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U523	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It is believed that you know that the Estonian farmer is in trouble and that agriculture is in a major crisis. This sector would need public assistance to get out of all this, but the government is acting the other way round and has decided to punish the struggling farmer again by increasing the excise duty on special-marked diesel by 9% next year and then by 10% in the next two years. Why has the central government gone down the road to punish instead of helping?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U524	Thank you. It is certainly not the government's intention to punish anyone. On the contrary, if you notice, farmers are still able to use specially labelled diesel. There have been long discussions about whether or not the use of specially labelled fuel should be predominant in Estonia. There are a number of areas where the use of specially labelled fuel has been abolished by law. Agriculture is the sector in which the possibility of using it has been preserved.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U525	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U526	Thank you. Dear Minister, The large share of excise duties in the structure of the state's tax revenue is certainly a problem in Estonia. From the countries of the European Union, we are only going down here for one Balkan country. That's where we're probably going the wrong way. And how true is it that we plan these steps for quite a long time without really knowing what neighbouring countries are doing? Indeed, the new Finnish government may increase excise duty on tobacco, you will receive a little, but the share of excise duty on fuel will certainly be significantly higher. Among other things, what fuel prices will eventually be like for our consumers will also depend on the price of oil in the world. It's very difficult to plan this for a long time. Why are we making these changes with such a questionable procedure, all the more so as Parliament does not have a thorough analysis of these issues? These drafts are in one piece, which is very wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U527	Thank you. Studies suggest that some 36000 dwellings are rented to private individuals and that a total of 54000 dwellings are rented altogether. For 2013, a total of 25,800 natural persons and 5664 of the area rented to private persons declared rental and rental income and remuneration for loading the case with limited property rights in the income tax return of the natural person. The lessor is now given the opportunity, as a positive measure, to deduct 20% of his income before paying income tax to increase people's legal compliance with the declaration of their income. Moreover, the topic discussed in the working group has not been discussed in the draft, whether and if so, how the rental market could be reflected in the reporting formats. For example, if a person completes his/her spring declaration, could he/she give a clear signal there that he/she, as a potential lessor, does not have a rental relationship. They don't do that right now. Should we ask a person for further information, and should a person also say that he or she does not have any additional rent income coming from him or her? Such discussions in the form of a working group are ongoing, but these things have not reached this specific draft law. Since you asked, I tried to answer as accurately as possible and to give an overview of how the state, in the current situation, is thinking about people paying tax on their rent income. They do so now, but clearly not to the extent that the state expects it to be available to the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U528	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U529	Thank you. Good Minister of Finance! If your good colleague, Latvian Finance Minister Janis Reirs, says that the Latvian Government has only the pleasure of Estonia's fiscal policy, it can be understood in two ways. On the one hand, it is Baltic solidarity, friendship, as we think Laine Randjärv, me and a number of other good friends. But you can also think that maybe our Minister of Finance and our government are influential agents in Latvia when we look at this from the point of view of Tartu, for example. In Tartu it has been noted that Riga has become our biggest competitor in organising conference tourism. They have better air services, hotels more expensive than a gram, but I think we might lose that advantage quickly. You could say with a joke that you're writing Sester and you're putting the s at the end. Are you, or are you not, an influential Latvian agent with this legislative package and the rise in VAT on accommodation establishments?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U530	Thank you, good Aadu! We're both having a great day. You and I have been in the Baltic Assembly for a long time and today a long-term member of the Baltic Assembly was elected President of Latvia. I hope you've already congratulated him. I just spoke to Janis Reirs on the phone today on various issues concerning excise policy. I can assure you that neither side of this is an agent. In our talks, we exchange information to understand what tax policy decisions one country or another makes. As I said before, no country alone is in an oasis somewhere in the desert, so there is no one around. I can assure you that, apart from Latvia, ministers from several other countries are constantly being consulted, mainly in the area of the countries closer to us, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U531	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U532	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, According to the explanatory memorandum to this draft, one of the drawbacks of the reduction in the share of state pension insurance in social tax is as follows: 'Today, the share of social tax pension insurance (20%) does not cover the state's obligation to pay pensions (a deficit of approximately EUR 400 million). The deficit will remain in the future. Reducing the share of social tax pension insurance would further increase the deficit. " There is no sentence on the advantages that would justify such a decision. Maybe you have an explanation for how to eliminate this shortage.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U533	Thank you. Lowering the social tax rate would reduce the allocation of social tax to state health insurance funds. Alternatively, a reduction in the social tax allocation to public pension insurance funds was considered, but the decision in favour and against the two alternatives tended to be in favour of health insurance. The main advantage of this option is the possibility of avoiding a change in the principles of calculation of compensation and of establishing a clear compensation mechanism at the level of the law, which establishes a reduction in the State's compensation obligation. The advantages and disadvantages of both options have been taken into account in the decision-making process and the debate has shown that what is currently proposed is the best, clearest option in the compensation mechanism.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U534	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U535	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. A few questions ago, you said that, as a result of the current tax increases, people will have more money. I have a feeling you've invented a perpetuum cell phone, that at the same time the revenue from the state budget is increasing, and that more money will be left to the people. My question, however, is a bit different. You have repeatedly said here that the analysis shows this, the second and the third. We have also done analyses, and not only our party, but also a number of professional associations and specialists, who all agree that the planned revenues, written behind tax increases, do not come together because the economy is being killed. Here's my question. Did the analysts of the Ministry of Finance get the numbers in advance as a starting point, or did they figure those figures out for themselves? And if these figures were really their own and the result has turned out to be completely misplaced, what are you doing with these incompetent officials? Who will be responsible if you screw up the Estonian economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U536	Thank you. The Minister can then always resign if he himself has issued the forecast and made the estimates himself, the estimates have not proved correct and the result is some collapse. No question. I think your point is correct. It is precisely on this one measure, where I also say that perhaps the analysis was not correct, because there was no return as expected. At the time of the increase from 2000 kroons to 4 000 kroons several years ago, this was the time of the kroon, the state assumed that the additional income would not be doubled, but would still come. Finally, it should be noted that this specific measure actually exceeded a certain threshold of pain and that operators tended to keep more logbooks, to review their costs and not to pay this increased rate. But, as I said, there are also other examples of the same declaration of 1000-euro bills, where the expected revenue is considerably lower. If you look at the analyses carried out by both ministries and other institutions, it can be said, in summary, that the institutions generally do not make very much mistake in their analysis as a percentage. They are also the basis for macro-analyses, for example, in the case of the state budget, which similarly takes as a basis the expected future wage increases, the various revenue deriving from tax policy. Cost policy is guided by future revenue. If you look at the real implementation of the state budget from year to year on both revenue and expenditure sides, you will see that this is one of the largest analyses for Estonia, which provides the basis for locking the whole year. You will see that there are no fundamental errors in the macroanalytical, large picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U537	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U538	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. The Estonian Taxpayers' Association sent a letter to the Riigikogu today that it was criticised that there is no point in processing tax laws in this form if the coalition has agreed the correct solutions and it is already known that different opinions are not taken into account. It is just ridiculous to involve someone, to coordinate the opinions of people and organisations, knowing in advance that let them spend their time and nerves, but we still do what we want. The letter states that decisions are made five years in advance, although practice has shown that these decisions will soon be changed. Doesn't this letter concern you, and isn't that the next reason why we should withdraw such a cluster bill and revisit it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U539	Thank you. When we talk about a specific package of tax changes, as I said at the beginning, this package has been put into effect as a complete picture, and its overall result is that the tax burden shifts from labour to consumption more. Due to parliamentary practice, the task of the government coalition is to present to Parliament its vision of the changes he would like to see in Estonia in the coming years in tax policy. I believe that in the coming years, we will see changes not only in tax policy, but also in other areas. It is up to Parliament to discuss whether these changes are correct, why they are correct, whether they are giving the effect that has been expected. And certainly it is also the task of the Parliament's coalition to explain why one or the other change is to be implemented. You see, there should not be such a possibility that the coalition has obligations, but rights are not right. Consequently, if it has a duty to explain in society why it wants to implement one or the other decision, which it sees as positive, then it must also be right. Which means that he must have a majority behind these decisions. Due to parliamentary logic, it should have at least 50 + 1 votes in the Estonian Parliament. However, Parliament always has the opportunity to say, in the case of one draft or another, that no, this draft does not suit us. There have been examples. No bill has been cut into stone, so he can't be changed. The best example is the government's original intention to raise the tourist accommodation to the standard VAT rate. But at the same time, I tell you that if there is no debate, there is no way to get the truth. And the truth can be different. The truth you have, or your vision of one thing, may be completely different from what I have. Now it is a question whose opinion will prevail, whose opinion is more acceptable by the majority in Parliament. It's the center of this debate. I think that what we are having here today, the debate on various measures, is part of the actual debate. I think it is very welcome and very fundamental that such debates should be held.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U540	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U541	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, There has been a lot of talk here today about the taxpayers' union, but also for a reason. For example, in my opinion, they proposed that the taxation of rental income be allowed to deduct from the rental income all the documentary evidence of the costs directly linked to the rental. Why was this proposal not taken into account, but limited to 20%? As a person who is quite familiar with the real estate sector, you know that this is not fair to the landlord.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U542	Thank you. I want to congratulate the taxpayers' union. Lasse Lehis, one of the leading figures of the taxpayers' union, has a truly alert spirit and thinking mind, and very many of Lasse Lehise's thoughts have also found their place in the IRL programme, for example. He has a very clear understanding of how one or the other tax policy decision should be shaped in Estonia. The draft on your tables today is a compromise on all the changes that one or the other coalition partner has wished to implement. Of course, the Reform Party wanted to reduce social tax not by 1%, but by 2%. The IRL wanted to see a tax refund for low-wage earners in a much larger cardinal scheme. These fiscal changes on the table have been made in such a way that revenue and expenditure are balanced on the basis of the country's budgetary strategy, which is very important so that we do not outlive our abilities and, secondly, on the basis of our current limits of opportunity. When we talk specifically about rental income, it is always the question that being on the rental market, or letting, is actually, you could say, part of business. It is always possible for a person to set up a private limited company, the establishment of which is very easy, and to obtain business income through a private limited company. The direction given by this bill allows a person to partially deduct his or her expenses if he or she does not want to engage in a separate business or create an extra incarnation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U543	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The purpose of the draft law, as the explanatory memorandum shows, is to increase tax revenues. Have I got something wrong? In my opinion, the ultimate goal should instead be to improve the business environment and, after all, through production, the state's welfare will also increase. Hence the question: Where are the levers that should benefit entrepreneurship and production? I am not talking about a 1% reduction in social tax, there are conflicting opinions about it, and also the opinion that it does not provide anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U544	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U545	When we are talking about a different VAT rate linked to a preferential rate, Estonia still has a more favourable VAT rate compared to a number of activities in many other countries of the European Union. In Estonia, the most favourable VAT rate for hotels is currently 9%. Our immediate neighbours have a VAT rate of 12% and we also see a higher VAT rate in several countries up to 25%. The price of sales to the hotel room increases slightly from 9% to 14%, depending on the elasticity of the hotel room, by just over 3% in the middle. If you look at one tourist's total cost package, which includes hotel, catering and transport costs, the hotel room price is 15% of its total cost. However, I agree with you that any price increase is always important from a competitive point of view. The Government of the Republic has taken the view, firstly, that this increase must not come immediately, but that higher value added tax will take effect from 1 January 2017. Secondly, the Government of the Republic invests an additional EUR 6 million in taxpayers' money in this sector, mainly in rural tourism, in order to mitigate tax increases. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U546	Thank you. If you look at the analysis you have, as I understand it, on the table, you will see that the draft workers have taken into account a number of aspects that you mentioned. Moreover, you will see that we should talk not only about the rise in excise duty, but also about tax policy measures that leave more money to people, which will increase the ability of businesses to raise employees' wages. And you see, when employees' wages rise in companies, that means that more money will come into the budgets of local governments, too, in absolute terms. So let us not forget that every measure has its meaning, and the measures that have been put on this table today have clear social, regional and also local government objectives.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U547	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Finance! The increase in excise duty on specially labelled diesel used in agriculture has already been planned for 1 January next year. Do you not think that, in these difficult times for farmers, when the future of the dairy sector is not clear, it is not wise to increase taxes and excise duties, which are directed specifically at farmers? Do you think that the increase in farmers' costs at a time when the price of milk is falling, the top-up payments will not be paid and the quota penalty will also have to be paid, is reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U548	Thank you. Well, now we're getting to a situation where it's interesting to read your own verbatim. I suggest that everything that you have read intently at the moment is all almost literally written in the verbatim verbatim record, one of your party associates has already read it once in the same wording. If you two agree on who should ask questions, make sure you don't ask questions in the same way. I'm sure it's interesting in that sense. But I'll try to answer you again. The activities related to agriculture are certainly important for Estonia. I think one important assurance of these words is that Estonian farmers are still able to use specially labelled fuel. The excise duty rate on special purpose fuel shall be 27% of the excise duty on diesel from 2016. I think this is a very important observation. I myself say that in the future we could review these positions. Certainly, Estonian farmers must not get into the situation that a ton of cereals or pork kilo coming to Estonia from countries where farmers are subsidised is cheaper than what their people produce. Estonia must certainly look at which support mechanisms to use in the future. But I think that in the future we could think about whether the support must come through a special-marked fuel as we do now, it must be acknowledged that this is a political agreement, or that other support mechanisms must be used. In that case, however, this is a completely different debate and with other decision-making mechanisms.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U549	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U550	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Finance! In my opinion, it is for our government to be very commended for its courageously determined action that we will do the increase in excise duty and then come or the flood. In your urgent actions, you have not taken into account the voice of the people. That's good. That's good. But why have you not assessed the impact of the increase in excise duty on local governments, regional development and the socio-economic field at all? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U551	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U552	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! You mentioned earlier here that this whole bill has been made transparently and with all the parties involved. I do have a difference of opinion because many of the parties you mentioned have said that their opinions were not taken into account. However, I find it confusing, especially in the case of alcohol excise duty, that 2.6-fold difference to the detriment of stronger alcohol, whereas the producers of stronger alcohol are known to be in the majority of Estonia's capital and the larger brewers own foreign capital. Is this not an opaque lobby?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U553	Thank you. I think it's all very transparent, there's nothing opaque here. We see very clearly what government policy has been like, not just now, but over a rather long period of time. This is now where we should debate whether or not this difference should decrease and, if so, to what extent. The arguments are both in favour and against. Stakeholders have made calculations in one direction and in the other. Official letters have been sent to several committees and Members of Parliament. I would say, on the contrary, the debate must not be ashamed, absolutely not. As I pointed out earlier, political parties have voted differently over time. I think that within political parties, even within political groups, there may be different opinions, certainly there is. There's nothing deplorable about that. These debates lead to some kind of final agreement. Today you have on your table the agreement reached by the Government of the Republic, which includes three political parties. This is the current agreement, but Members, including you, a good questioner, will always have the opportunity to say how they would see what is right. The current proposal stems from how these three parties have agreed. Surely there is always a good dose of compromise in all agreements, that is inevitable.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U554	Dear colleagues, I am pleased to welcome you to the meeting on 4 June. Let's continue our work and have a nice hard day for you! Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U555	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm ahead of me on March 30th. a study by the Estonian Institute of Economics on the impact of VAT on the competitiveness of the tourism sector. It's very thorough and interesting. I quote: it can be summarised that estimates of changes in the number of tourists and economic indicators in the impact of higher prices caused by the rise in VAT indicate that the harmonisation of VAT rates may not lead to more money for the country. Why, then, are we even going to increase the VAT rate on accommodation services?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U556	Thank you. We're based on the current analysis that analysts have done. We will follow these analyses by looking at what the sales prices of the accommodation service are now and what the level of competitiveness of Estonia could be in the case of new tax rates. These are the analytical data on which decisions can be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U557	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U558	Thank you. Dear Minister, There is no way to be satisfied with the content of this draft, its formalisation and the way in which it is dealt with. To be honest, the explanatory statement, which is both nice and thorough, though sometimes in many words, presents information in a tending way. I feel a little sorry for the officials who are constantly forced to do this kind of work. The worst problem, I think, is that, for the current government, taxes are not economic regulators, but have become a source of intrinsically dubious electoral promises. Why has this happened in Estonia? It's not the first government to get it out of hand. As a minister, what are you going to do to put an end to this situation? This is extremely dangerous for Estonia's future development.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U559	Thank you, good questioner! You make a claim, you attach to that claim and you say that this argument is correct and that it should be. I'm telling you, no, your argument is wrong. I say that the decisions to increase excise duties on tobacco and alcohol are not based on one or the other fiscal issue. Looking at what the average wage increase in the coming years will be and what would be the taxation of specific evils on the basis of existing laws, one might think that there will be a situation in which the objective of improving public health that both I and you expect will not be achieved. Moreover, the Minister of Health and Labour has said that he would rather see their vices even more taxed. I would not say that this is linked to the overall picture of one or the other change. This is a very clear aspect of public health, which, of course, is also being passed on to the fiscal side. Let us not forget that the taxation of vices is our aim to reduce consumption, and impact analyses show that tobacco and alcohol consumption will decrease in the coming years as excise duties rise. I therefore think that your argument was not correct in this context.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U560	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U561	Thank you. Dear Minister, According to this draft, only those whose training relates to the Agency will receive a tax refund on future training costs. When we look at the movement of labour, we see that re-training is very important so that a person can continue and re-skill a new profession. You're the one who's gonna put a hand in this bill for re-training. How do you intend to solve this problem, and why do you do so? Retraining is important.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U562	Thank you. It is still possible to deduct the costs of vocational training and language training, for example, as well as the costs of children's hobby education. The initial objective of the tax credit for training costs is to help people acquire knowledge and skills that increase competence and competitiveness in the labour market. A very clear distinction needs to be made between the level of interest and the level of training. It is certainly worth stressing here that all expenditure relating to children can still be deducted in the context of the income tax credit.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U563	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U564	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. A few questions ago, Mr Herkel presented the complaints to the explanatory memorandum. I agree with him, but I also see something novel, progressive and even humoristic in this explanatory statement. I read that the impact on entrepreneurship, consumers and the environment is worded in this way: in none of these areas, the amendments introduced by the draft act will have a terminal effect. It's a new word in our legislation. I will now begin to divide the draft laws into two: one is the one that states that they are not extinct, and the other is the one where it is not stated, that is, the drafts that are extinct. Was that your purpose, and who is the person who made it up?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U565	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U566	Thank you, good Mikhail! You're such a uniform looker. I think this is very reasonable: there are people who look at the content, and there are people who look at the form. In this sense, there must be harmony. We can't miss the uniform either. It's remarkable how you always watch the uniform. Very reasonable! That's a commendable thing to say. It has certainly not been the aim of the drafters to classify draft laws as "deathable" and "non-deathable." It's clear as day. On the substance of the draft, it is certainly very important to look at impact assessments. In making one decision or another, we need to understand the impact it will have. To see whether the effects are such as to cause competitiveness to fall to a level that one or the other service can no longer be provided. These are certainly important things that must be observed if you make a decision. As regards the example given, the explanatory memorandum has apparently attempted to convey that when a specific measure is adopted, there will be no possibility for any action. I think it's definitely important. Is the wording the best, that is a separate question. It's always that beauty is in the eye of the viewer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U567	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U568	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I didn't get an answer to my first question, but it's empty. It is commendable that you increase the excise duty on tobacco and alcohol associated with harmful habits in the hope that less will be drank. Perhaps less is used, but at the same time less tobacco and alcohol consumption will lead to other harmful habits, such as eating more sweets and getting crisps and all sorts of other disgusting things from the face. Haven't you foreseen in the bill that I didn't see this replacement activity? Since you avoided tax incentives for sports and all such things, what are you replacing alcohol and smoke with?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U569	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U570	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Two or three questioners before me, a lady just asked about the rise in excise duties on fuel and what happens when Latvia does not raise the excise duty and does not go along with these things. You guys started talking about buying a lot of tech and putting these things on the line. I don't know if it's coming from late night class, but I don't know how or where you're gonna put that tech on that southern border. As far as I know, European Union laws do not allow this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U571	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The day before yesterday, the Minister of Social Affairs in Kuku Radio said: 'I do not think that if the law is passed, we will read the text of the law exactly and then act accordingly. ' I wonder whether such a view applies only to government and ministers, or whether this principle can be applied by ordinary people.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U572	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U573	Honourable leader! Dear Minister, I would like to congratulate you on taking matters from the Riigikogu seriously and respectfully at this late hour. But the way your coalition deals with this bill here in the Riigikogu is not respectful at all, but I would dare to use the word 'depreciable'. We now have the first reading of this bill, which is likely to be dragging on to a new day. Tomorrow, this issue will be discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, although the deadline for the amendments will be Monday. The debate in the committee is likely to be completely formal and is only necessary in order for the Riigikogu Board to be able to put this draft on the agenda again next week. How do you assess this procedure in this Riigikogu, is it respectful of the people of the Riigikogu? What exactly happened to you in the government that you were so late to submit this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U574	Thank you. Let's start with the government and get to the Riigikogu. If you look at the order in which the government drafts are drawn up, I would even use the words 'non-formal' and 'formal' here. The reason I use such words is that, even before the drafts were in some form and sent out to the interest groups, non-formal consultations were already held with the stakeholders. Looking further back, this has generally not been very common. The government has generally adopted a position and remained firm until the end. It was different this time. And when I look at the information that the government has sent out to interested parties, it appears that the draft law amending the Income Tax Act was sent to the ministries as early as April 30th. Let's not forget it's June already. It was sent to the Confederation of Trade Unions, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Real Estate Companies Association, the Taxpayers Association, the Employers' Confederation and the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises on 5 May. The part of our comprehensive tax package related to the Social Tax Act was sent out on 8 May, as well as the part relating to alcohol, tobacco and fuel. As I mentioned earlier, there has been a separate coordination cycle for the various tax changes contained in this single tax package. As an example, the Estonian Oil Association, Eesti Energia, Viru Chemistry Group, Kiviõli Chemical Industry, Estonian Power Plants and District heating Association, Estonian Motor Carrier Association, Estonian International Car Carrier Association etc. have been clearly interested in excise duties on alcohol and fuel. So if you look at the draft coordination circle, I can't say we'd have done them in a hurry. Everyone has had the opportunity to participate and the process has continued in the Riigikogu. When it comes to the Riigikogu, Parliament has a mechanism for self-regulation, here the government cannot say in advance how Parliament must behave. Looking at this whole process, it should be taken into account that the government has actually already done a very large amount of work with all stakeholders. Moreover, as Minister of Finance, I have personally asked the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs to be present at meetings with interest groups, and he has been present every time to feel what the thoughts of one or another interest group are, what the problems and proposals are. The government certainly cannot say what pace Parliament should maintain. But by looking at these proposals and at this rate, it is your decision. In our lives, we have seen here how the second and third readings, how the first and second readings are done in a very short time. We've seen a procedure that lasts a week. As Minister of Finance, I am certainly not the one who says how Parliament must behave. But it seems to me that this constructive dialogue, which is currently being held here, has also taken place before this draft is sent to this Chamber in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and I believe that it will continue in the same constructive way in the next sessions that are to be held in the coming days. The Chairman of the Monetary Commission is himself in this Chamber too, and I am absolutely sure that constructive debate will continue at the same level as in the last sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U575	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U576	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We've been talking for years about our gold being oil shale. Therefore, we should also talk about oil shale fuel oil in the case of oil shale. Unfortunately, however, the share of oil shale fuel oil in heat production decreases from year to year. Boilerhouses that use it are currently under 500, but due to the government's decision, it is now necessary to add to this number those boilers that have so far used special diesel fuel. Why am I talking about this? This means that our own fuel has a consumer, but I understand that the price will rise by 10.1% next year. The biggest blow comes where this oil is used more often, i.e. in Ida-Virumaa, where people with less tax power live.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U577	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U578	Does the government want to stop using oil shale fuel at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U579	Thank you. By taxing fuels, we rely on their main use, whether it is motor fuel or heating fuel, and on their energy content. If we now look at oil shale excise and oil shale fuel oil excise, then it can be said that for the new rates, the excise rate of oil shale is only 7% of the excise rate of diesel and the excise rate of oil shale fuel oil is 11.5% of the excise rate of diesel. So we're relatively far from excise duty on diesel. If you look at the tax changes to be made by this bill in the coming years, you will see that oil shale and oil shale fuel oil are a one-off increase, while the excise duty on diesel will also rise in the coming years. The effect of this particular excise duty is a regional measure. In this sense, the regional measure that oil shale fuel oil and oil shale itself are used more often in Ida-Virumaa, mainly in Narva. We have also calculated in the analysis and provided for an analysis based on real data, that for the average household living in a three-room panelhouse apartment, this represents an additional cost of up to EUR 16 per month for the cost of EUR 100 during the winter months. If we look at the wage growth forecast by the Ministry of Finance, I note that the average wage in Ida-Virumaa is lower than the average wage in Estonia. But when we talk about absolute numbers, let's not talk about percentages, we talk about absolute numbers, we see that this lower average wage in Ida-Viru County is also increasing considerably more than the heating cost per month for a particular example. Moreover, the state wants to further motivate people to renovate their homes through KredEx programmes. If KredEx has set thresholds, levels for applications, then in Estonia they are 15%, 25%, 40%, while in Ida-Viru County they are 25%, 35%, 50%. They are higher in order to encourage the targeting of KredEx programmes in this sector. These are important aspects. It should be noted that the warm price in Narva is currently the cheapest in comparison with the rest of Estonia, but it certainly does not have a symbolic meaning; it remains one of the most favourable. Such a KredEx measure, a general state tax policy measure, including the fiscal policy decisions we are making today, leaves more money to people, gives them the opportunity to decide their own costs in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U580	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U581	Thank you. Minister of Finance! Looking at this cluster bill, it is clear that you are looking for all the ways to raise taxes to make up for the deficit of the state budget or to get money to fulfil your electoral promises. You have raised the rise of both diesel and petrol excise duties on the table, which will hit both ordinary Estonian people who use transport, use public transport, and also Estonian freight transporters. At the same time, you have rejected the possibility of introducing a topic for transit transport, i.e. trucks, in Estonia, as in all other countries of the European Union. Latvia is using this option, Lithuania is using it, it is being used by all countries of the European Union except Estonia and Finland. Why don't you consider this possibility? You tax Estonian entrepreneurs, but you do not collect the money that the rest of Europe collects. Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U582	Thank you. This complete package of tax changes, which is on your desk today, is intended to provide answers to your question. Look, if there was one change, such as raising a specific excise duty, whatever excise duty it is, whether it is linked to consumption, such as excise duties on fuel, it is linked to vices such as excise duties on alcohol and tobacco, then we would not get the whole picture of reality. We would not understand why one or the other change is being made. I think that, thanks to a comprehensive vision of this tax package, we can discuss and assess why one or another change can and should be brought about. Looking at the changes that will leave more money to people in the coming years, including businesses, we will see that, ultimately, the amount of money available is greater than what is going to cost. When we talk about public transport and related matters, it is certainly a matter of thinking, and not just a matter of thinking, but certainly a place of discussion in the future. The heavy-duty tax, currently at the minimum level required by the European Union in Estonia, is only a burden on Estonian entrepreneurs, as it is in the Estonian register with its own vehicles. At the same time, I think that the road user tax, on which you rightly said that it is not presently in Finland and Estonia, is certainly a topic that should be discussed in the future. I welcome the fact that you, too, will see one measure that should be put on the table in the future and discuss whether to bring this measure into practice and, if so, at what level, that both Estonian entrepreneurs and foreign entrepreneurs who use Estonia as a transit corridor would be treated equally.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U583	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U584	Thank you. Good minister! My colleague, Andres Ammas, called this bill a disgrace. I'd say there's not much sincerity in this bill. Otherwise, if you really were interested in solving the problems, you would have included in this cluster measures that would have reduced the availability of alcohol and banned alcohol advertising. There's a lot of stuff you could put in that bunch. In any case, you don't want to change your health behavior, but there are other problems. For example, on page 57, it states: "Companies estimate that the increase in VAT is the most painfully affecting companies operating in regions away from attraction centres and micro- and small enterprises, which contribute to the growth of the informal economy and the poverty of the tourism industry as a whole. " What are the policy measures by which you soften this assessment or eliminate the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U585	Thank you. That is a very good question, and I am ready to answer it, just like all the previous questions. Changes that may make our competitiveness worse must be reviewed and made in such a way as to provide the greatest possible relief. A very specific answer to your specific question. The Government of the Republic has adopted the view that it is not in today's draft with six million taxpayers' money in 2017, 2018 and 2019, especially in the tourism sector. Moreover, as I said earlier in one of my responses, tourism operators have said that it is most likely that the most difficult is now and will continue to be in rural tourism. It follows that a larger proportion of this measure, out of six million, will go to rural tourism. In the near future, let us say more precisely, in the next one and a half years, let us not forget that specific VAT will not rise in 2016, but in 2017, it will also have a longer time to prepare measures for how this six million can be used as effectively as possible. And, of course, the state is thinking about how to make Estonia more attractive as a tourist country and find relief for our entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U586	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U587	Thank you, Vice President of the Riigikogu. Minister of Finance! This is a joy when the state also thinks about entrepreneurs. But I will give you concrete examples where the new government will significantly undermine the competitiveness of our companies. I reject the rise in VAT on accommodation, because you have just answered this question. I'll bring you very specific figures, and then think, maybe you can answer about them. In 2016, the excise duty on diesel will be EUR 448 per 1000 litres. In Latvia it is EUR 332 per 1000 litres and in Lithuania it is EUR 330 per 1000 litres. I ask how our transport companies can compete with their neighbours. Let me give you another example. In Latvia, farmers have zero excise duties on fuel, remember, zero! Our farmers have a specially marked fuel excise duty of EUR 110 and will be raised to EUR 146. I am not talking about the subsidies that the Latvian State will provide to the farmer. How can these two sectors compete with the Latvians? Is there really someone in the government who represents the Latvian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U588	Thank you. We should then look at a more comprehensive picture, not just about one excise duty or another, and look at the standard VAT rate, which Latvia has, by the way, higher than Estonia. We should also look at the fact that a Latvian company is forced to transfer a certain amount of its profits to the state each year, which does not need to be done in Estonia in the case of reinvested profits. Estonia is certainly more attractive in its tax policy decisions in some places and Latvia is more attractive in some places. We need to look at the whole picture. And, as I said, Estonia cannot be in a situation when we see what the questioners from my right-hand corner have said today, that if analytically derived impact analysis does not respond to, for example, what could actually happen in the future, then is the country able to make new decisions flexibly. I think that the country must be flexibly prepared to make new decisions. So I will say once again that, by looking at the whole thing, we must make sure that Estonia's competitiveness is not undermined and therefore decisions have been taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U589	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U590	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Finance! I'm sitting here thinking that neither we in this hall nor you in that chair are paying for your own gas. And I think it's unethical that we're making a law here that will affect those people who pay for their gasoline. If we were just talking about the increase in alcohol excise duty, yes, we are buying alcohol for our money, it would be ethical to decide. That's the big minus of the cluster law, that things that don't fit together are together. But my question is about something else. Have specialists analysed how the increase in the price of petrol will affect the population of rural areas, whose cars are not the most economical, but they cannot buy a different one by the increase in excise duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U591	Thank you. This package of tax changes gives an overview of how labour taxes will decrease and consumption taxes will increase accordingly. I think it is very important to look at it in its entirety, to look at what changes will be introduced in the near future when this draft law is adopted. As far as regional measures are concerned, let us note that today we are discussing tax advances for all people in Estonia, whether they live in a city or a country. If in the future the tax-free minimum is higher, this means that the state will charge less income tax on a person's salary. If, for example, a person is going to receive a tax refund for low-wage earners in the future, which we have not reached today, then that means that the state says: I want you to come to the labour market, and I will do everything in my power to keep you in the labour market. These are the changes that are on the table today. And I think that by looking at this picture as a whole, you will also understand that the people of Estonia will ultimately have more money that can be spent on whatever a particular person wants to spend on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U592	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U593	Thank you. In order to understand whether the excise increases planned will reduce consumption in the future, I will present here (also in the interests of the verbatim record) some forecasts. In the future, it will be possible to see if the impact has been what we expected and hoped for. Looking at alcohol consumption in the coming years, taking into account the new measures and distinguishing between two groups, the group of thin and strong drinks, as early as 2016 the consumption of beer in the group of thin drinks is expected to decrease by 2.5%. Strong alcohol consumption is expected to decrease by more than 7%, by 7.1%. In later years, this percentage will be lower, just under 2. The consumption of beer will decrease by 1,7% in 2017, by 1,2% in 2018 and by 1,3% in the following years. In the case of strong alcohol, we expect consumption to decrease by 4% in 2017 and by just over 3% in the following years. In other words, the aim of excise policy to create a situation where consumption is decreasing is clearly set out in this draft law. There has been no analysis of possible other effects, such as whether more potato chips will be bought, for example. I do not think the questioner expected us to carry out such an impact analysis right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U594	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U595	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It is to be welcomed that tax-free income will rise from EUR 154 to EUR 205 or EUR 51 in the coming years. At the same time, you will smoothly decouple additional tax-free income for children from the tax-free rate by freezing it to the current level. Today and in the future, the tax-free income for raising children is EUR 1848, but it could be EUR 2460. Since the second child, tax-free income is 612 euros less per year. Reducing child poverty is, of course, a coalition priority. Please explain how the planned plan supports families' livelihoods and reduces child poverty? Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U596	Thank you. The additional tax-free income for child maintenance will remain at the current level of EUR 154 per month. So nothing's being reduced, it's in exactly the same position as it is now fixed. Instead of the general benefit, as we can see, child allowances will be increased. On the one hand, we can see that the tax-free minimum is rising for all working people, and on the other hand, the growth in child benefits is not currently the bill on the table, but I suggest that today around 3:00 a.m. we start working on it as well. These are measures in which you can see that the country is focusing its attention on families with children.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U597	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U598	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance! In primary school, it is taught that taxes are needed in order for the state to receive money. It is explained better in upper secondary school, and your speech also revealed that fiscal policy is actually a powerful lever for managing the country where it is being turned. For example, it is suitable for reducing some kind of consumption. The Prime Minister has quite strongly justified the increase in excise duties on fuel with environmental needs, so that less pollution will occur. At the same time, we know that fiscal levers are particularly effective, if they are to be given other measures, they are many times better. Here's the question: could the government join in or support the idea of taking the course for free public transport? This would significantly reduce fuel consumption and pollution and would fulfil the same objective that the Prime Minister has so proudly declared on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U599	Thank you, good Aadu! Despite the late hour of the evening, you have some serious questions, and I think very reasonable observations. This is a very correct observation in this context. I have a difference of opinion about free public transport, but I do not think that we need to open this matter today. There's an interesting nuance about the rise in fuel excise duty. When stakeholders met to discuss fuel excise issues, a group of companies were rather positive. And you know who they were? They were public transport operators. And when the question was asked at the table, what is this positivity in a particular case, they said that the increase in excise duties on fuel will change human consumption, if not immediately, in the longer term. People will use more public transport and fewer passenger cars. They said that long-term policy would then lead to more use of public transport. Whether this transport must be free is a separate issue and let us not open it here today. However, it was very clearly pointed out that this increase in excise duty is one measure that would lead people to use public transport rather than public transport. I am not saying that this is measure No 1 and objective No 1, but it is certainly worth noting that the flanking measure will be directed towards more use of public transport in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U600	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U601	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You're very brave and you still answer nicely. I'm confused about a lot of things, but I'm stopping at one. We all support the development of civil society, we are in favour of involving private money in education, entrepreneurship, research, etc. Please tell me how this generally good slogan and trend coincide with the fact that the amount deducted from the taxable income of a natural person is reduced from EUR 1920 to EUR 1200. I believe that the Council of Churches and many others are opposed to this approach. Then why do you propose it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U602	I will try to stay within the limits of this bill and not comment on what one or another minister or other public figure has said. We are really trying to stick to this draft and, on the basis of it, discuss constructively why one or the other legislative amendment could be put into effect, what effect it could have, whether this effect is adequate, whether it could be done differently. And if you do it differently, how you do it differently, whether you should cancel something or add something. I think this is actually a debate place, and I am really trying to convey to you my best-known vision of launching one or another measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U603	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U604	Thank you, good questioner! You pointed out one side of the matter in your question, you failed to bring it to the other side. So I'll bring out the other half. It is right that the Council of Churches has sent a vision to the Minister of Finance, but the issue has also been raised by the association of non-profit organisations, mainly in relation to subsidies and donations. While this draft reduces the amount to be deducted for grants and donations from EUR 1920 to EUR 1200, there is also a very important change. This is precisely the amendment that will no longer be linked to the revenue generated by the volume of donations, which has so far been fixed at a 5% level. You can't donate more than 5% tax-free. You can always donate more than you want, but in the context of the so-called exemption, there's a 5% limit. The non-profit association sent a request for the possibility of abolishing this 5% rate. They made a number of other proposals and also proposed the so-called American option of donating as much as you want, but this 5% rate was one of their proposals. The Government of the Republic discussed this, and today you will see that there is a bill on the table where this 5% proposal has already been introduced. This means that all donors would be able to donate EUR 1200 in the context of the so-called tax refund, but without a 5% limit. I think that's a clear relief.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U605	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U606	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states: "The increase in the share of excise duty in the retail price of petrol is expected to result in pressure to increase the fuel secret market, as it increases the profit expectations of those involved. Thus, in order to keep the situation under control, the tax authority must contribute even more to the prevention and prevention of tax fraud. There are also additional risks if the Latvian petrol excise duty does not increase and the world oil market price increases significantly. ' That is my question: what measures does the government intend to take to mitigate these risks if this cluster law is adopted?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U607	Thank you. As you can see and quote, all aspects, both positive and possible negative aspects, must be taken into account in the analysis. That's a very good point. Whatever the increase in excise duty, it is fuel or tobacco excise, there can always be a certain risk and pressure on the secret market. I have some happy news to tell you. In particular, in the 2016 budget, which is currently being put together and with which we will also arrive in the autumn in front of this Parliament, we have provided for additional investments in equipment used by the Tax and Customs Board, which will increase the reduction of the secret market specifically linked to border trade. We will increase these amounts by almost EUR 22 million. This means a wide range of X-rays, i.e. both fixed and mobile devices. The head of the Tax and Customs Board has said that this is the biggest investment in recent history. We cannot, on the one hand, be sure that the share of the secret market is increasing and, on the other hand, of course, it would have an immediate fiscal impact on the budget. In making these investments, we can say, and this has also been confirmed by MKM, that its capacity will increase strongly in the coming years, presumably as early as next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U608	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U609	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister! You have repeated several times that the decision of the current government is to pursue this type of tax policy, and that is the choice of the government. However, I recall that the government does not have a mandate to pursue such a policy, because this mandate was simply not asked. When asked, in the run-up to the elections, where is this money taken to balance the budget, your party specifically advertised that this money was available in the budget. I come back to one of your earlier points where you said that the purpose of these tax changes is to leave more money to the people so that they can decide for themselves. With the increase in VAT for accommodation companies, you hope to receive 10 million into the budget. I very much doubt that this amount will come together, but it is a question of faith, as we have understood. At the same time, you want to channel 6 million euros in the budget into marketing activities to support Estonian tourism. Does that not contradict the statement that people can decide for themselves? Why can't the money stay in the hands of the companies? Why are you channeling this bureaucracy into projects?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U610	Thank you. I don't see any contradiction.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U611	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U612	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Dear Minister, For the last month, the rhetoric from the government, especially the Prime Minister, has been loud that the rise in excise duties on fuel should encourage the transition of the Estonian people to more sustainable cars. I can talk about my experience, I have a very sustainable car, 5.5 liters of diesel for a hundred. I also know people who look to more sustainable cars. This direction is very welcome. At the same time, there is a contradiction with logic: when all Estonian people buy electric cars, where do you get a cover in the form of an increase in excise duties on fuel? We also know that both the government and members of the Riigikogu should be pioneers and set an example for their voters, be the right people and confirm their words by their actions. What kind of car do you drive and how much fuel does it take?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U613	Thank you. When we talk about excise duties on fuel and look at the elasticity of the price and the impact analysis, we see that it has not been based on the fact that exactly the percentage that the excise duty is increasing is more money coming into the budget. It's not like that! If you follow the impact analysis closely, you will see that it is based on a change in people's patterns of consumption. They usually get a car that consumes less fuel or more public transport, as has already been said here. These are behavioural changes that will certainly take place over time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U614	Thank you. Of course, on the one hand it is third countries and fuel coming from third countries, and on the other hand it is smuggling, which is within the European Union. It comes from different countries and has certain features that these are criminal groups that do not pay for poor quality goods and taxes. Information on this is available to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, and in the future we will see that the measures that the Estonian Tax and Customs Board plans to implement in the near future to make its investments more efficient will also help to ensure that the secret market in Estonia does not grow, but rather shrink. When we look at statistics, we see that the Tax and Customs Board has done a good job and our 'tax pit' is not what we should be ashamed of compared to other countries. At the same time, however, we must work clearly to further reduce this tax gap. This is where the Estonian state will certainly be able to obtain additional income, especially in fiscal terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U615	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U616	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Martin Huberg has written a very interesting article in yesterday's business paper, in which he calls the government a quick-borrowing coalition. In his article, he says: 'And when you talk about equal treatment or getting used to tax credit when you raise the VAT rate in the hotel sector, it just shows ignorance. The low tax rate supports the sector in particular, wage costs, and if the tax rate increases, but the price cannot be increased, because it loses competitiveness, some people will lose their jobs. ' You have also said a great deal today about transferring EUR 6 million to tourism business over a period of three years, which I am unfortunately sceptical about in my past experience. In addition, I would point out that 10% of our closest neighbours are VAT in Finland, 9% in Lithuania and 12%. How do you see an opportunity to raise wages in such a situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U617	Thank you. Looking at macroanalytical examples, we can see that wages will rise in all sectors in the coming years. We do not see the wage increase predicted by the autumn forecasts, but the private sector is seeing a very good increase in real and nominal wages, with an order of magnitude of 5% in the coming years. This is not only a hypothesis, but it is mainly possible for the Tax and Customs Board to control it very well through various tax policy inputs. Social and income tax revenues clearly show that wages have increased. As far as VAT on hotels is concerned, just as you said, so I also understood that the increase in VAT from 9% to 14% is not easy. In this sense, it is certainly not easy for you to look at market competition. I have said that such an increase means 33 euros instead of 32 euros as the final price for the hotel room. It's a reality. The increase is 3.2%, but it is in any case an increase and 3.2% is not zero. In other words, it is real money that is being taken away from businesses and cannot be undone. The preferential VAT rate will remain, no 20%. The rate of preferential VAT remains, but the state needs to think about how to protect its businesses. We're falling apart here. You were skeptical and said that you did not know whether this measure would work. I am not skeptical and I sincerely hope that the Minister for Enterprise during this period will not forget that there will be a year and a half to go by and develop additional measures. Because it is taxpayers' money, it is your money and my money and other taxpayers' money that they want to add to this sector. Both the state budget and European money have already been provided there on the basis of previous decisions. Now it's decided to give another 6 million. I sincerely hope, and I have no reason to doubt that this money will come to this sector in the coming years and will ultimately come to a situation where more tourists will come. If there are more tourists, then hotels will be able to increase the sales of rooms. More tourists also mean more overnight stays and, in principle, the future profits of companies will come not as a result of these various tax incentives, but as a result of the increase in real turnover. This should be the aim of the state to help this sector. I assume that we are capable of fulfilling this objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U618	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U619	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I hope that you will forgive me if I miss the debate here that you have already touched on this issue. You're putting the municipalities in a very difficult position with this increase in excise duty. Does the government have any clear idea of how to alleviate this situation and how to compensate local governments for rising costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U620	Thank you. Depends on what kind of excise duty you had in mind. I assume, of course, fuel excise duty, not tobacco or alcohol excise duty. Yes, of course, all parties, not only local authorities, but also the state itself, have their own cost bases in the form of the same cars that one ministry or another has. The excise rise concerns all parties involved. And when we look at the macroanalytical figures for the coming years, we also see that the average salary rises every year. What does an increase in average pay mean? This means that the local authorities that you have now pointed out will receive greater financial support in absolute terms compared to the reference year at the same percentage level. Of course, we are working to increase people's salaries, and if we work for it, it will also have a direct effect on local governments, because they will receive a certain percentage of income tax. So let's do this work together.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U621	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U622	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It's great when people's wages go up and they get more money. But your party's old political slogan was that you were fighting for a reduction in home expenses. Have you changed your mind? I don't think raising taxes is gonna cut home expenses.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U623	Thank you. Not at all. Look at the measures that have been taken during this period, and I have also told you, in answer to one question, about the possible KredEx residential renovation programmes. Do you know that in recent years, 37 million euros have been invested through KredEx in improving people's housing in the form of a house insulation programme? It is real money that has gone to make people's heating bills smaller. There are more examples of this, so let's take the tax exemption for the land under home. This is definitely not the subject that is on this table today, but I think that for all the people of Estonia who do not have to pay land tax for their home, it is a big deal. I believe that we have made a number of important changes that will help people to lower their home costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U624	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U625	Thank you. When we talk about the effects in the full picture, petrol affects more domestic consumers and diesel is a production input for industries. I'm gonna stop at diesel for a second, and then I'm gonna get to the gas. In the case of diesel, we can see that in classical production, it is up to 3% of the size of the input. The price of final consumption of the product is not a high proportion if we are not talking about logistics, where its input price is clearly higher. Indeed, the largest household of petrol is households. As I said in reply to one earlier question, the government has made estimates of the final price resulting from excise policy. As the level of excise duty for fuels is around 50% for petrol, a 10% increase means a 5% increase in the final price. Looking at the current final price, we see that, in the middle, the order of magnitude is five euro cents per litre. So, ladies and gentlemen, mathematics says that with a 5% rise, the price of a 40 litre tank will increase by two euros. To make sense, I'm talking in absolute numbers. If we now look at the government's fiscal policy decisions that apply to both rural and urban people, absolute figures show that people will have much more money as a result of these tax policy decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U626	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U627	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. At the end of April, an article with a heartfelt title appeared in the Eesti Päevaleht, one might even say: 'Sven Sester's hopeless attempt. The government sent a minister for new sources of cover. ' The newspaper says that you also offered colleagues other options that are not included in this bill, for example, so that public spending could be more serious. Now, if you believe in the newspaper, that was not the case for other ministers. With what arguments did your colleagues reject this proposal at the time, and will there be any savings in the public sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U628	Thank you, good Andres! Well, you see, it's getting one o'clock, and we're going to come quietly from this particular draft tax policy to other issues. But I'm gonna take a chance and talk a few words about it. I don't think it's a shame to say that it's a rather good question. I can tell you that the country is pulling itself together. I do not know when this particular article has been published and for what reasons it has been published, but I want to congratulate ministers in all areas, because the contraction means that the ministers in the field must be able to review their internal resources. We have agreed in the coalition that in the coming years, in the next four years, the state will review the entire wage policy of its staff and reduce the cost of staff by 1% per year. This does not mean that people's salaries will be reduced, absolutely not. This means that the situation will be mapped out, looked at where there are duplicate tasks. There may also be a situation where a task is missed in two chairs. The Minister of State Administration has received a mandate from the Government to come to the Cabinet at one point and show, in cooperation with other ministers, how this work should look in the coming years. It is very important that sectoral ministers have agreed on this among themselves. This is politically crucial. Sector ministers have said that yes, they are ready for the state to pull itself together, the ministries to pull themselves together in part. In addition to wage and staff policies, management costs are included. In this, too, all ministers agreed that management costs would be reduced in the coming years. By its very nature, the state is generally not only Estonia, but also other countries, like a small balloon, which can be more and more filled. In that sense, I like this question very much. It is important that the state itself is a pioneer and indicator that it is also able to absorb its own costs. If he's able to cover his expenses, he can look at the others and tell them that we're gonna check your expenses, whatever that means. The country will be doing so in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U629	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U630	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. As for the plan to increase excise duty, I come back to oil shale mathematics. According to your own words, the price of oil shale-produced heat energy would increase by up to 16% in Narva. In my opinion, this is, in itself, a huge and painful blow for consumers, especially in Ida-Virumaa, which is indeed a region with lower incomes and which must be supported rather. With this draft we prefer LNG, low sulphur light fuel oil and wood chips. The draft does not take absolutely into account the investments made in oil shale-fired boiler plants, which may become unnecessary as the boiler plant has to be rebuilt as the alternatives mentioned above gain an advantage. This 16%, which is actually a variable cost component, is also added to the investment component, which will further increase the price of heat. My question is this: do you not think that with this draft we are not supporting a region such as Ida-Viru County, but rather contributing to its extinction?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U631	Thank you. On the contrary, I would say that we must clearly focus attention on all the regions of Estonia, including Ida-Virumaa. As I said earlier, we should intensify the thermal insulation programme for apartment buildings directed by KredEx. Ida-Viru County has been included in this programme, but has been on a lower level. It's a purely active issue. Perhaps this reduced activity is, to some extent, understandable. If you have the lowest heat price, it's always a question of whether you want to make extra investments. I also encourage the MPs who have been elected from there to tell their voters that we will fix the houses. Let's not blow up! We clean up the houses, the country has measures to do so, and in the case of Ida-Virumaa, higher levels are foreseen than in other regions. For the government, Ida-Virumaa is clearly focused.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U632	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U633	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, This bill raises VAT on accommodation establishments with the aim of increasing the tax revenue of the state. Both international studies and the assessment of the Institute of Economics show that, in fact, this tax increase reduces the tax revenues of the State. It is not a question of some euros, which is added to the cost of a bed, but of the fact that the average tourist leaves only 10 to 15% of his money in the accommodation and the total remaining consumption accounts for almost 90%. If the number of tourists is estimated to fall by 6%, this is where the lower tax revenue will come from, estimated at nearly EUR 34 million. True, the analysis was made on the basis that the tax would rise to 20%. If we divide it by 2, it's still like 17%. What analysis do you rely on, saying that this tax increase will increase the revenue of the state and not reduce it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U634	Thank you. You yourself pointed out that in the cost structure of the tourist, the price of the tourist accommodation services is 10 to 15%. Analysis says 15%, which is about a sixth of all costs. The question also arises: if you choose the country of destination, how much will your decision be about whether prices in the countries of destination are at the same level or whether there is a price of the euro or two more expensive. I am certainly not the one who says that an increase in the price of the counter of one or two euros will not have a burdensome effect on the company at all. I'm sure it's burdensome, there's nothing to talk about. It is understandable that this is an aggravating factor in a competitive situation. This is why the State has planned additional measures. The attractiveness of the country of destination as such is certainly crucial. As an example, even our closest neighbour, Finland, where counter prices are higher than in Estonia, yet hotel filling is better. The Estonian state should work to make Estonia attractive as a tourist country. If today we have talked perhaps more about this EUR 6 million, then through EAS, the state is actually investing considerably more in this sector. We are talking about tens of millions, which are given as different measures. The EAS has also highlighted what they consider to be the most priority in order to make the country more attractive. Firstly, direct lines between the capitals of Tallinn and other European countries and other cities are important. Secondly, it is tourism attractions that are important, to say the words Lottemaa 2, 3 and 4, to add the reputation of an attractive tourist destination to Estonia. These are the issues that the country is facing. The aim is for our companies operating in this market to increase their sales and to make more profits by increasing the flow of tourists coming here. And the flow of tourists doesn't come here because we have little but some speciality of VAT, but rather because the country is attractive as a destination.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U635	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U636	Thank you, esteemed performer. We have been discussing for several hours the tax laws that basically mean to you as Minister of Finance that we, figuratively speaking, move money from one pocket to another. But as a minister, you are certainly interested in having more money come to Estonia. I have not noticed in recent times whether and in what laws you have also considered the development of entrepreneurship, the development of the economy and the increase in the income of the state budget. I don't think I've heard of these ideas. Right now, all we're sharing is poverty. You said you could talk about wider issues at a late hour. Maybe a few words about the prospects of how your government is leading the economy to develop.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U637	Thank you, good questioner Heimar Lenk! You said we've been here for hours. It's good to see you guys here, too. But that's it. You are asking how this draft, which you have on the tables today, will help businesses, what measures are targeted at people. Look at the same paper on the table, take a look at it. You will see clearly that in the coming years, the state will channel money from the budget to businesses through various measures. One measure that you will see on the table today is the same social tax measure. Finally, the State grants EUR 90 million, which is a direct cost to the State, a direct annual cost. This is one of the examples. I'm trying to stay within the limits of this bill. At one point we can go further and start talking about how we encourage the activities of exporting companies in Estonia and so on, but I am trying to stay within the limits of this draft. You will see that there are clearly measures that have a positive fiscal impact on businesses, and also on other people, very clearly exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U638	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U639	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. According to the explanatory memorandum, the reduction in social tax increases the net wage of the employee. Please explain by what formula should it be calculated to show an increase in the employee's salary?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U640	Thank you. The reduction in social tax leaves, as I said, 40 million additional revenues to entrepreneurs in 2017 and nearly 90 million in 2018. Businesses can take different decisions: either channel this money into their own development, their own means of production, their own other projects or employees' salaries. The public sector also faces similar situations. Don't forget, the public sector too! All Estonian employers will have a 1% reduction. The public sector clearly shows how it wants to behave and also directs this money to employees' salaries. Businesses, of course, have to make their own decision as to whether they want to channel it into wages or somewhere else. The public sector will fully channel this money into wages in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U641	Kadri Simson, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U642	Thank you. Minister of Finance! You mentioned in several replies that this bill is such a package of compromises. I want to ask you more specifically about raising VAT on hotels. In fact, several hotel companies have invited members of the Riigikogu to report on why such a tax increase is planned. Pärnu hotel companies met Toomas Kivimäe, Chairman of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu, who said that they were also considering raising excise duties on beer instead of raising VAT on hotels, but it was feared that beer traders would sue the government for such a step. I ask you that if the Riigikogu decided that we would cancel the increase in VAT on hotels, because this affects the sector very badly, and we will find the millions missing from the increase in lean alcohol excise duty, would you allow your group to vote in favour of such a proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U643	Thank you. First of all, that would definitely be the new metamorphosis of the Central Party. A year ago, you said exactly the opposite, that under no circumstances should you increase the excise duty on lean alcohol. It was a 100% reverse situation. Perhaps in the meantime, you have changed something and you are invisible or visible or, as Mr Ammas said in the meantime, a new position as a result of the incomprehensible effects. But in any case, whatever this position is, it is the position of the Members of Parliament. And having a position is definitely better than not having a position. Today, as Minister of Finance, I cannot tell you what position you should take in this particular context and which other Member. Parliament has the right to self-determination. And if you ask me if you can propose an amendment to this bill, do not ask me to do so. You have this right automatically as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U644	Priit Toobal, first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U645	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I sincerely apologize if you have already had to answer that question, but repetition is the mother of wisdom and I ask. According to the draft, learning at a driving school can no longer be declared under training costs. Please explain why obtaining a driving licence can no longer be declared under training costs, while, for example, declaring a language course is not excluded.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U646	Thank you. We have based ourselves on a situation where really the costs associated with the level of education are allowed. And if it can be shown that this training is specifically related to one or two level education, there are no problems. Today, in the classic sense, the training of driving schools is more related to the learning of interest rather than to the level of education. And the coalition has agreed that adult interest learning is limited in this sense, no restriction on level training. And, of course, all the costs associated with children are not limited.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U647	George Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U648	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Finance! First of all, thank you very much for your answers today. In the last composition, you made a very debateable impression, and today you want to go to the details in your answers. I have a technical question. With a bill 41 we will amend seven laws. There were three drafts in the government's coordination circle. Please tell me how difficult it was for you to resist the cabinet's desire to put them together as a cluster bill in a government discussion. Here in front of the Riigikogu, you can say this honestly, I'm sure we understand you. In view of this, you probably would have liked to discuss these three drafts separately with as much detail as possible. How hard was it for you to resist putting this cluster bill together?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U649	Thank you. As regards the comprehensive package of tax changes that I am presenting here today, I think these questions show that this is the only right way forward. For see how else we could make different tax policy decisions if we did not understand how the country would develop a revenue side on the one hand and a cost side on the other, if we wanted to bring one or the other measure into practice. I would like to emphasise once again that the comprehensive package of tax changes, which together shifts the tax burden from labour to consumption, is on your tables today. I believe that this will leave additional money for both people and businesses in the future. So I call on you to support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U650	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U651	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Here's the question. Political forces usually want to implement their goals first and want to put these things into practice like history, that we have organised one or the other or a third. I have a question that someone must also implement measures with a negative undertone. I learned from the other minister that the idea of raising VAT on hotels was the Reform Party. But who suggested the idea of increasing excise duties on fuel? Was it an IRL or some other party?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U652	Thank you, good questioner! Interestingly, different people have a different understanding of the negative effects of the law. Why am I saying this? I went to one of the draft laws on the tax refund of low-paid people and which I will soon come here to protect before you, initially in the Committee on Social Affairs. Your party partner said there that why we should support this bill, because on the one hand it is a draft aimed at low-paid people, but it takes money away from the budget. I didn't believe my ears, a member of the Centre Party says that low-paid people should not be supported because it takes money away from the budget! So the understanding of what the negative effects of the law are different for people. The changes you see on your desk today are a joint agreement between this government coalition. For years, the aim of reducing labour taxes has been taken into account, and this is the case in the draft. In one of the next drafts, which I will soon be defending here, I hope that you will also support it, we will already see clearly focused measures with a focus on low-paid people.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U653	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U654	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I want to congratulate you that you have dared to say things with a straight back during this long marathon that sometimes ministers do not dare to say. You have recognised, when talking about VAT on accommodation establishments, that any tax increase affects the competitiveness of a particular sector. Now, there's a subject that hasn't been touched much. There is a great deal of concern on the part of businesses that there has been an explosion in illegal or semi-legal housing markets, particularly in relation to the sale of online services. These hosts do not have to meet any requirements, they do not pay any taxes, and they still compete with those who have taken bank loans and kept employees honest on their payroll. As a minister, can you promise that you will do everything you can to ensure that those who have made these commitments are able to survive, that this illegal market does not cut their feet, that it does not take away from them what they have built up?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U655	Thank you. It is not a question of what I think as a minister. It is a common interest for all of us to make the Estonian business market increasingly understandable, transparent and fairer. I don't know, correct me in later corridor conversations if I'm wrong, but I have a feeling that the mentality of Estonian entrepreneurs has changed over the years. I was approached by a restaurant manager who said, you know, it's hard for me to compete. I'm gonna pay all my wages honestly and sell the products on my menu for some x price. The restaurant next door sells them twice as cheap. You can't sell twice as cheap! So there's an anomaly in the game. I told him to raise the question, there's nothing to be ashamed of. This is the common interest of all of us, both of the government and of Parliament, in order to make our business environment better and more competitive. The more clearly we understand how competition works and how transparency is generated, the more likely it is that honest companies will be able to invest and create new jobs. In your particular example, I think it is important to look at what this explosive increase in the illegal market has come from. The Tax and Customs Board must also be focused on this in order to monitor whether this growth has come about with the support of any advertising channels, whether it is advertised or how it works. Certainly, the supervisory bodies concerned must not turn a blind eye to this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U656	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U657	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In your answers, you are talking about lowering labour taxes. The draft does, however, only provide for a reduction of the social tax by 1% and in two years. Perhaps the fact that it is planned to do so within two years will allow us to talk about tax reductions in plural. But maybe some downsizing of labour tax between the lines has disappeared. Help me find it!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U658	Thank you. A 1% reduction in labour tax is said to be only 1%. Look how hypocritical you are to say that. This 1% represents EUR 90 million. Just before you said, or someone from your party said, maybe we should cancel that 1%. Find out whether you want to increase or lower the level of social tax. There could be a position, if there isn't a person, then at least a party. When we are talking about taxes on labour, in addition to reducing social tax, there is also an increase in the tax-free minimum. A very clear measure in the coming years. There's more money left for a man. A very clear measure!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U659	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U660	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance! I quote one line from this thick pile of papers: 'There is a risk that if the price of oil increases significantly and the Latvian petrol excise duty does not increase at all, the border residents may start to refuel in Latvia. " If that happens, then it is far from equal treatment. Perhaps it is part of regional policy to really help the people of Valgamaa cope better? There's no other way to help them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U661	Thank you. The analysis of excise increases has been based on the current excise policy decisions of different countries, and the possibility that Estonia will increase excise duty and Latvia will not come with the increase in excise duty is also taken into account. If you look at price elasticity in the analysis, you can see that it has been taken into account that in regions close to the border people can cross the border to buy fuel with a lower excise duty. The coming years will show what the excise policy of one country or another will be. I expect that Latvia will also increase excise duty in the coming years, but whether the assumptions are true, we will see and feel in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U662	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U663	Thank you very much. The rise in excise duties has often been associated with revenue in the media and society. The rise in fuel excise duties has a very clear impact on both the police and, for example, the border guard. That is why I am asking how much the cost of the state will increase as a result of the rise in fuel and other excise duties?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U664	Thank you. The 2016 budget is currently under negotiation. The process culminates in the autumn and the budget is transferred to Parliament in September. The needs of ministries and of all additional public funds will be addressed during the negotiation stages, including the needs of the Ministry of the Interior. After all, the Ministry of the Interior has a very large car base and the costs that arise from it. Certainly, the process of drawing up the state budget needs to be reviewed so that no car stops.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U665	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U666	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Finance! I would like to clarify your tax policy principles. Why is the use of car fuel a vice that must be suppressed by taxation, while the car itself is considered a good that cannot even be subject to a cent-size car tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U667	Thank you. It is always a terminological question, but I would not take the use of car fuel as a vice, but rather as a consumption and use the term 'use tax'. It can always be said that consumption tax is actually VAT and that car fuel is inherent, as Jürgen Ligi said, fossil fuel and consequently vicious. One might think that today the car is no longer a luxury thing, as it once was, nor is there a luxury matter for a mobile phone as it once was. It's a terminological question. I'd rather look at it in today's context. But once again, it's kind of a terminological side.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U668	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U669	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The draft, if it becomes a law, gives the possibility to deduct 20% of the rent received when declaring revenue to cover the rent. My question has to do with this. Where's that 20% taken from? Is it somehow sought or researched, or did it suddenly come? Perhaps this percentage could be higher to actually cover all the costs associated with the apartment?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U670	Thank you. It was discussed when the question was on the table. They've looked at all the receipts. You reminded me that the law could also be interpreted as meaning that all the money received from the tenant to the landlord can be regarded as revenue. In this respect, it is worth saying that in addition to the rent, the lessee usually pays the various utilities costs. They cannot be regarded as revenue, it could be said that in this case it is a transit invoice which is passed on to the State. These were points of discussion and a political compromise was finally reached. One extreme is that no revenue percentage is taken, and the other is that it is taken at 100%. It was considered that there could be such a proportion of costs and benefits that landlords would be given the opportunity to take account of 20% of their costs of improving housing. There is always the possibility of registering as a self-employed person, registering at this level and reviewing their cost positions as a self-employed person. There must always be those possibilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U671	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U672	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Petrol and diesel are at the heart of today's economy, dependent on the prices of all goods and services. The rise in excise duties certainly hits the pockets of those who receive lower incomes in particular. A lot of these people live in the country. Did you and your coalition partners discuss how the increase in excise duty on petrol and diesel will affect the rural man?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U673	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Finance! I have earned the honour of representing voters, not in the urban environment, but in rural areas, Rapla and Harjumaa. Quite a lot of people in this neighborhood are asking me about this bill and the rise in excise fuel. Could you help me call them two or three positive moments that will get better for people in the remote area now that the fuel excise is rising? How can I answer these people with your help?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U674	Thank you. Tell them that if we adopt this law, the rate of tax-free income will rise in Harju and Raplamaa and in all people in the coming years, not only in the first year of 2016, but also in the next years, 2017, 2018 and 2019, finally reaching 205 euros per month. That leaves more money to those people in Harju and Raplamaa, where you've been running for the last election. There are other pros, but this is a very clear and concrete plus. Please convey this signal to your constituents.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U675	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U676	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, The Estonian Tourism and Local Food Support Group, which has concentrated more than one third of the members of the Riigikogu, has met tourism entrepreneurs and received many worrying letters on the subject, which has been raised several times in this hall today. Their concern is perfectly understandable, and you have responded thoroughly. You have promised from this remote control that this 6-million-dollar measure should mitigate the effects of what is to come. Do you think that this measure is sufficient, or is there something else that the government can do to alleviate the concerns of the 50,000 people working in this sector who are worried about their jobs and salaries today? And was the experience of Latvia and Lithuania lost there in the speciality of VAT and, after being re-established, in some way suggests to us how our future might look? Do you have anything encouraging to say to these people? It is understandable that we must implement these measures today in order to increase child support and other costly promises to comply with what the government coalition has decided to do. They're just as important, but...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U677	Question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U678	... but how do we balance the situation? Do you have anything to encourage these people to say?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U679	Thank you. I'd like to start by saying that a good questioner said, "You've promised." I'm here to represent the government's positions. This decision has been taken in the government office, and I see no reason to believe that this decision will not be implemented. This is perhaps one of the most important indications that, in addition to this separate decision on 6 million, the government will implement very clear other packages of measures through the EAS. Surely a good questioner knows that it is not just a question of 6 million. It is a question of tens of millions of euros, that is the order of magnitude, I do not have specific data on the table, but I propose 70 million euros, even 80 million euros, which will soon be transferred to the tourism sector, both European Union money and partly Estonian taxpayers' money. It is certainly very important that the decisions taken through the EAS are such as to give real effect. What is our goal? After all, the Estonian state would be an attractive destination for tourists, so that our turnover would grow because they wanted to come here. That is what we should achieve with these measures. I call here on the specific group of Parliament, which is also represented by the good Imre, to be in active contact with the EAS to help implement these measures in Estonia. It's in all our interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U680	If Heimar Lenk and Jaanus Karilaid read the Home and Working Procedures Act carefully, they will see that two questions can be put to the rapporteurs. Priit Toobal, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U681	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Like my colleague Ratas, I rather have a request for advice. I went to meet with the people of Põlva County some time ago, and the head of a pensioner came to me for advice. I'm in trouble. I'm asking for your help! Before the elections, the Reform Party and the IRL said that the new government would turn itself towards entrepreneurs in its activities. If these tax changes enter into force, the same head of the pensioner I told you about will win EUR 252 per year thanks to the reduction in social tax, but will lose nearly EUR 6 000 per year due to the rise in VAT on accommodation establishments. He pays the state more money, which he had actually planned to raise employees' salaries. He asked me what I had to do to get on with my business, because this is simply not possible after a tax change. What would you tell him what he should do?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U682	Thank you. I think that, as far as these measures are concerned, the first thing is definitely that we have to look across sectors. We don't just have to look at one company, we have to look at all companies. This is a very bad approach if we look at only one particular company. But if we are now talking about the sector, it can certainly be said to this particular entrepreneur that we are working to make sure that this particular region has some new attractive centre, a new conditional term, Lottemaa 2, Lottemaa 3. I've said that before. We are working to ensure that tourists are interested in travelling to this particular region of Estonia. These are measures that we should certainly implement. In this area, all Estonian regions fight each other in a good way. There's nothing wrong with that, it's normal. In addition, of course, tax policy decisions, which you also mentioned in your question and which have a larger impact on one company, are less likely to have on the other. Much depends on the ratio between labour costs and other costs. In your example, this is one, in some other company there is a very different situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U683	George Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U684	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Finance! I have been following this debate quite closely in recent hours and I must say that there have been very thorough answers, but there have also been those that raise questions. Indeed, in answering one question, you indicated that the preparation of this package has been accompanied by an in-depth analysis and that you have been able to negotiate with the parties in a calm manner. Maybe you could help me. If we take this draft into account, on page 22, in the explanatory memorandum, the Ministry acknowledged that the Ministry that you are managing, that given the urgency of the draft, it was not possible to assess separately the impact on local governments. On page 23, we see that it is similarly stated that, given the urgency of the draft, it was not possible to take account of all aspects of the state budget when increasing the rates of excise duty. There are more moments like this in the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U685	Thank you. As you can see, we describe all the nuances that we sense that we need to take them into account, to a greater or lesser extent, in the process of dealing with this draft. As far as the coordination of this draft is concerned, in answering one question, I said that the true story, the views of all parties, are being taken into account. There's still a procedure for the draft. And let us look at all the parties to this bill with whom the draft workers have specifically communicated. You will see, and I am talking not only about communication in written form, but also about communication in the form of a round table, which, for every draft, has not been provided by different business organisations, by different stakeholders.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U686	Maili Reps, please! But now, in one minute, please ask your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U687	Thank you. First of all, as far as analysis and participation are concerned, these are slightly different things. When we asked about the tests, you said they were done. The explanatory memorandum states that it was such an urgent step that it had not been reached. But I'm coming to the fuel oil with my question. The previous government, and you yourself were part of this plan, provided for an increase in excise duty on light fuel oil of 350%, which represents a 38% increase in the price. And if we look at the new steps, there will be an increase of 14% and another 10% in the next two years. Why have you chosen this light fuel oil as a special enemy?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U688	Thank you. We have not chosen any energy source as a special enemy. When we develop all energy measures, we are essentially based on the energy content of the heating source and we are trying to harmonise excise duties. I must say that, in the case of a number of measures, we are still far from harmonising in practice, but this is the direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U689	Thank you, Minister Sven Sester. No further questions. The Commission's rapporteur is Mr Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U690	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you a bill 41 initiated by the Government of the Republic: a draft law amending the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws. The Committee on Finance discussed this for about three hours at its meeting on Thursday 28 May last week. The Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, gave more or less the same comprehensive overview of the bill there, as he is now answering your questions in this Chamber. Mr Dmitri Jegorov, Deputy Chancellor of Taxation and Customs Policy of the Ministry of Finance, and Mr Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department also attended the meeting of the Commission. I don't think I'm going to go into detail on the substance of the bill. With regard to all these tax changes, the reduction of social tax, the increase of the tax-free minimum, the exemption of average old-age pensions, the increase of excise duties on alcohol and tobacco products, the increase of the VAT rate on accommodation establishments and the cancellation of the limits on donations, all members of the Riigikogu today could ask and the Minister of Finance explained the planned changes very thoroughly. He did the same in the Commission. Five or six hours ago, there was a debate about whether or not it was a cluster bill. I'm sure it's not a cluster bill. The Finance Committee deals with this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. The common denominator for the amendment of the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws is changes in the tax system and the draft is reasonable for the Riigikogu to process one as a whole on a sectoral basis. I recall that on 19 February this year the Riigikogu approved an amendment to the Tax Administration Act, which stipulated that there must normally be at least six months between the adoption and entry into force of tax changes. The purpose of the Act is to increase the stability of the tax environment, improve the predictability and predictability of tax changes and give taxable persons more time to restructure as a result of tax changes. For the government, the principle of legal clarity is very important. As the Minister of Finance confirmed in his replies here, the government is already drawing up the state budget for next year and it is important that all the relevant laws can be adopted sufficiently early and that the government can rely on them to implement the budget. The Commission's debate, as I have already said, was very substantive. For example, the issue of training costs and the regulation of the rental market were mentioned. Members of the Commission asked about the taxation of e-cigarettes in the future, as was the whole procedure of the drafts. They asked whether it would be reimbursed to the health insurance fund. The representatives of the Ministry assured the members of the Commission that they would be compensated. Questions were also about its impact on the budget, as today in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. The negative budgetary impact of the 0.5% reduction in social tax is approximately EUR 40 million. The initiators were also asked about additional support measures for the tourism sector. The answer was that during the next financial period, EAS will channel 60 million towards making the tourism sector more competitive. So EUR 60 million goes into this sector and the government has decided that an additional 6 million will be devoted mainly to the development of rural tourism over a period of three years. This was certainly an important change in the final phase of the debate, which was made by the government. It was also asked whether the State had taken into account compensation for the increase in excise duties on fuel for transport companies. The answer was that yes, the budgets for the coming years and the state budget strategy take account of these additional costs. Finally, after receiving the answers to the questions, the Committee on Monetary Affairs took the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session on 3 June (this decision was consensual), to propose that the first reading be closed (this proposal was supported by 6 votes against 5 members) and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 a.m. on 8 June. Five members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs were in favour of the last proposal. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U691	Questions for the waitress. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U692	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We still had the impression of a long and thorough presentation by the Minister of Finance and, by the way, it is also in the explanatory memorandum that many of the effects of this legislative package have not been properly analysed. The Ministry of Justice has also drawn attention to this. I ask you, as Chairman of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, who has worked very long and hard on this legislative package, what exactly is the impact on local authorities of amending the Income Tax Act and increasing excise duties on fuel.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U693	Thank you. This draft does not have such a single effect that it would change the amount allocated to local authorities from income tax. As regards the increase in excise duties on fuel, this will certainly entail additional costs for municipalities that subsidise public transport. There is no illusion in this respect, and probably neither do you. It makes perfect sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U694	Everyone has the right to submit two questions to the two rapporteurs together during the debate on this item. Mikhail Korb, I can't give you the right to ask any more. And if the members of the Riigikogu have no further questions, then the manager does. I would ask the Commission to explain why the Commission is proposing exactly what it has proposed on the deadline for the amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U695	Thank you. I briefly referred to this in my speech. In February this year, Riigikogu adopted an amendment to the Tax Administration Act, which stipulated that at least six months should elapse between the adoption and entry into force of tax changes. The stability of the tax environment, predictability, predictability as well as the time required for the restructuring of the tax changes were the argument that the large hall of the Riigikogu then incorporated this requirement into the law on the proposal of the Monetary Committee. The aim is also legal clarity so that the government can rely on certain laws when making the next year's budget and drawing up the country's budget strategy. I have thoroughly studied the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. I think it is also important that, when we discussed this draft for the first time in the Commission on 28 May and we are discussing it here on 3 June, it is enough that the Commission decided to set the deadline for the amendments at 4 p.m. on 8 June. So, in any case, the Riigikogu has enough time to consider, formalise and present substantive amendments. This opportunity has certainly existed since the first debate, but proposals can also be made when the first reading ends today. It is tomorrow's working day, it is Friday, it is the weekend, and there will be until 4 a.m. on Monday to submit amendments to the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U696	Thank you for that explanation. Now I'd like to ask you a question, Artur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U697	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I like this kind of involvement, it is very important for such complex laws. Tell me whether the Commission met representatives of, I do not know, the mining industry, the urban association, the concrete association, the building materials association and other associations, who are directly affected by this draft. Were there any meetings like this, and if so, with whom?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U698	Thank you. I'd split these meetings. The first meeting, which took place with the representatives of road transport companies, the oil company and other umbrella organisations, I can't name them all by heart, but there were more than 15 people at the table with courage, touched on the rise in excise duties on fuel. This meeting was held a month ago. This was also referred to by the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, who had already convened this meeting during the preparation of the government's draft. It was a round table. A meeting of the Minister of Finance with interest groups also took place on the issue of changing the preferential VAT rate for hotels. The association of tourism operators and the hotel association were represented and 10 to 15 people were present at the table. Letters of various forms have been sent to both the Minister of Finance and the Committee on Monetary Affairs during the procedure for this draft. These are, as far as I know, the meetings we've had so far. Perhaps the members of the Riigikogu have met someone separately, but I do not have an overview of this. I also know that the topic of VAT on accommodation facilities has been discussed by interest groups with at least four groups of the Riigikogu. Perhaps all the groups have been met, I know that there have been meetings with at least four groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U699	Thank you, Remo Holsmer! I'm opening negotiations. At first reading, as usual, representatives of the political groups will get the floor. On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Martin Helme, please! How do you like it? Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U700	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard very detailed explanations from both the Minister and the Chairman of the Commission. But in fact, we did not hear any good reason to vote in favour of this law. We heard a series of questions in the hall that didn't actually answer. And the problem is very simple. We do not have any reasonable reason to change these laws. Why raise taxes if it does not improve the situation of the Estonian economy, if it very dubiously improves Estonia's fiscal position and if it is claimed that there is no real appetite for these tax increases in any coalition party? We have not received any clear justification for why this should be done. And yet we keep rolling. The Estonian Conservative People's Party already had a distinctly different economic vision before the elections, and we have also repeatedly presented it in the ongoing debate. We believe that money comes into the budget not because we squeeze as much from every person in Estonia as possible, but because we promote the Estonian economy. Once upon a time, the Reform Party believed that too. Not for a long time, I'm afraid. This will not help anyone in Estonia if 10 million out of 10 million are taken from accommodation companies and 6 million out of this 10 million are given to EAS so that it can promote the marketing of tourist accommodation companies. This is ridiculous. This will not help the Estonian people if more child support is given at the fingertips and, at the same time, the children's school and driving home from school and their parents' work are made more expensive. It's not helping! This will not help the Estonian budget. Estonian entrepreneurs and Estonian consumers will start to strike sooner or later and the planned tax receipts will not come. There are examples from adjacent countries of how such ill-designed and economicly ill-effecting tax changes must be abolished sooner or later. To today's question, who is responsible when such irreparable damage is being done to the Estonian economy, we did not actually receive an answer from the Minister. There is political responsibility. No one is responsible, but the damage will be done. What happens then? More people go to Finland, England, Sweden. An even decreasing tax base brings even less money into the state budget. It's a downward spiral. Nothing good can come from here. Nothing good can come from here, and everyone with a mind, including the coalition, understands it perfectly. They're nodding quietly right now, but they'll do as the party says. And I just don't understand why the party says it. Why is this necessary for Estonia? That's one side of it. If we want to approach rationally and promote the Estonian budget, to promote the Estonian economy, it is clear that everything that is now proposed is bad and wrong. There is, however, another aspect, and this is a matter of social agreement. There were also questions about this today, and there were no proper answers to this: where is the mandate for these tax increases coming from? When did they ask permission? When was the explanation given that we want to increase child benefits and take the money here, here and here, or that we are planning to re-play taxes to this extent? It wasn't breathed! On the contrary, the other parties were very angry at the accusations that if you start playing such great Santa Claus games after the elections, where will you take the money? One party said that there was money in the budget, the other party said that it was definitely going to go on. This can be understood in any way, but it cannot be understood in any way that, after the elections, the Estonian tax system will be radically restructured. This is definitely an unstable course to continue. And that is despite a very strong criticism in society. A number of interest groups were formally involved and were consulted. We asked the Ministry of Finance how much time the interest groups were given to give their position, and as a rule it was a week. Well, you have to be grateful for a few good things. Parliament will not be given that time. There are no interest groups that have clearly and unambiguously supported these proposals. None! This involvement was a pure formality, no actual involvement had been, just ticking. Of course, we should be grateful for today's debate. Imagine what it would have looked like if there had been, for example, a vice president of the Reform Party as a finance minister on this platform. Would we have had better or less better answers? I very much doubt that debate would have been so friendly. Either way, if the government coalition, contrary to any common sense, is blindfolding politics, rigidly and stubbornly, in violation of good practices and the rules of basic democracy, it does not leave the opposition with many other choices but with much to resist. Well, then, we'll bang. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U701	Andres Herkel, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U702	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu and Members of the Riigikogu! At this late hour of the night, the Free Party Group will have to submit a proposal to reject this draft law at first reading. As I pointed out earlier when I asked a question, neither the content of this draft nor its such welding formalisation nor its processing in the Riigikogu are acceptable. It is a rather insane combination: all three aspects are worthy of strong criticism. Since it is affectionately called a cluster bill, I also present the elements of criticism in various clusters. The first cluster of motives stems from all the rather unsystematic tax ideas that are reflected in the coalition agreement, but indeed no one breathed before the elections and which were not quite discussed in the coalition negotiations, at least not in public. And even the appearance of the Prime Minister candidate before the Riigikogu went on to ask for one of Excel's tables, but there were no very clear answers. It was only later that these tax ideas, the increase in excise duties on fuel, the increase in VAT on accommodation establishments, the loss of various tax incentives, began to come to the fore. The bad thing is that the voter is still considered an extremely stupid person: before the elections, we share promises, we do not talk about the sources of cover at all. Everything that has happened also has a comic tone and is not so much behind it as the act of Prime Minister Rõivas that an innocent phenomenon such as the Excel table has become almost an intriguing word in our language. The Excel table is not guilty of anything; political practice is responsible for how things have been presented. The second set of motives stems from the fact that the author of the draft is, in my opinion, extremely wrong and even hypocritical when he says that the primary aim of the amendments is not to be fiscal, but to change any patterns of consumption, to maintain health, to reduce pollution, etc. I'm sorry, but this is all bullshit! I asked this question to the Minister of Finance and from all this package or bunch he only answered about excise duties on alcohol and tobacco. Yeah, maybe there's some sort of health-saving purpose involved to justify it. But it is extremely hypocritical to justify the whole package in this way. Indeed, we have done so in Estonia that for a long time taxes are no longer a measure that shapes the economic environment, but they have become a source of cover for the rather systemless, often conflicting electoral promises that the coalition's parties have piled up in the coalition agreement. This is certainly not a sustainable policy. Unfortunately, there is no meaningful tax policy in the Republic of Estonia for a long time. This has also been the case for previous governments of the Reform Party: there has been one tax idea, and this is a gradual reduction of the personal income tax rate. In combination with the accumulation of electoral promises that are not spoken of before the elections, this is what gives the current situation, which makes the status of the government not particularly enviable. But they're looking for bad solutions here now. I'm asking for more time, if possible!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U703	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U704	The elements of the cluster bill are definitely here. All these tax changes should have been divided into at least three drafts, I think. I had this strange question about eggs and chicken. What was before: is this night sitting a product of the draft bill or, on the contrary, the earlier night sittings practiced by different formations of the Riigikogu have caused the government not to dare to come before the Riigikogu in any other way than to pile them up systemlessly? In any case, Estonia's policy has been moving in the wrong direction for a long time and this is a serious concern for the Free Party. These things should not be dealt with during the hour of the night and in the way we do. But there is another procedural aspect: this is the situation in which the Riigikogu has been put into this tax package. Yes, the representative of the Commission spoke about the fact that we have amended the Tax Administration Act and we have adopted such a fine requirement that there must be six months before the tax changes come into force. It's all a noble idea, but look, right now it's putting Parliament in a very preposterous position. And here I cannot go past the format of the collective appeal adopted during the previous Riigikogu, which the Riigikogu has subsequently failed at all. Indeed, some of the collective appeals are obviously disliked by Parliament and must certainly be rejected. And then one appeal was chosen, and under the predictability of tax stability and predictability of the tax environment, this half-year rule was introduced, which may in itself be correct, but now it is putting Parliament in a pretty bad position. We should not deal with these things at such a pace. The Taxpayers' Union has even proposed that, if we do so, the Constitution and elections should be brought forward. Otherwise, it may be repeated that every time a new government comes and every year, if tax changes are to be made, they are brought to the Riigikogu during such a spring time. To put them into effect by 1 January, they need to be adopted as a matter of urgency. This is certainly neither good nor sensible. Let's not be surprised when we're called the rubber stamp again. The proposal is to reject the draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U705	Kadri Simson, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please! With an extra eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U706	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speaker, Andres Herkel, asked whether the present night hearing was the result of the draft cluster. Actually, it's not. Rather, it shows that the current government is more uncertain about its tax increases than has been the case with previous governments. When massive cuts and significant tax increases were made in 2009, then the Prime Minister was so confident that he would not allow the discussion on this issue to take place in the Riigikogu and immediately linked the tax increases to his vote of confidence. Therefore, let us be grateful that the current coalition is so democratic that Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas does not dare to come to this Chamber to defend these tax increases or to believe that there are at least 51 people in the Chamber who still trust him. However, we are discussing today a cluster bill which the governing board of the Riigikogu should not have accepted as such at all. We can all verify that the government discussed this package as three different laws. They had a separate debate on raising the tax-free minimum and lowering social tax, as well as on raising VAT on hotels as a separate package and, thirdly, on various increases in excise duty. However, one cluster bill was handed over to the Riigikogu. And it is very clear to all of us why the government decided to merge these drafts into one cluster bill and submit them as such to the Riigikogu proceedings. The decision has been taken in the government, and now the Riigikogu needs to act quickly and quickly. This should not be the role of the Riigikogu. Of course, the handling of the draft cluster will deprive the opposition of a lot of opportunities to do its job. But above all, the Reform Party has taken hostage its smaller partners with this cluster bill. People's ambassadors are facing a forced choice: if there's one small thing you like, it's as if it's justified to vote for a big bad thing, or vice versa. How do you support a part of the bill if you do not want to vote for tax increases? I find it questionable whether this situation is in line with the constitutional principles of parliamentary procedure. In order to ensure that the government's road roll policy in Parliament is still perfect, the Committee on Monetary Affairs set the deadline for amendments at 4 p.m. on the next Monday, which is three working days after the first reading. The Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu states that ten working days are generally required to submit amendments. On the proposal of the commission, the Chairman of the Riigikogu may set a different deadline for the submission of amendments, and the Chairman of the Riigikogu sitting behind me will still be able to fix ten working days for the deadline for amendments. It was also good that Eiki Nestor asked the chairman of the committee to explain why only three days were given instead of ten working days. If you listened carefully to this explanation, it was not very compelling. The justification that negative tax changes have to be adopted six months before entry into force is not relevant. The Government of the Republic could have submitted the draft to the Riigikogu at the right time, given the internal organisation and procedural practices of the Riigikogu. Instead, we hear that the government simultaneously asks the Riigikogu for legal clarity that the government cannot work unless the law has been adopted quickly. If we have a law passed that tax increases must be regularized six months before they enter into force, then I would point out that today, too, we still have 26 days to calculate this deadline. We could give the opposition ten days to table amendments and still take these decisions at second and third readings before the deadline. Now I come from the form to the content, and that's not better. The bill increases the rate of VAT and fuel excise duties on accommodation services, eliminates the income tax credit on adult hobbies training, and reduces the total amount of deductions and social security contributions allowed from the taxable income of a natural person. And this reduction in the social tax rate makes Estonia's health care system less secure. The reduction in the rate leads to a reduction in the income of social security contributions from public health insurance funds. It is true that, for the time being, this will be allowed to be compensated for by other revenue from the state budget. But unfortunately, today's government trust credit is so small that such a promise is like warm air. Any discretionary decision on the compensatory part must be ruled out, and we do not consider it right that the existing confidence in financing healthcare is being violated. Health care is always targeted at a certain part of social tax. During the past eight years, taxes and excise duties have been raised 20 times in Estonia under the leadership of the Reform Party. The new government coalition will continue its introverted path to the Reform Party by increasing excise duties on fuel next year. The excise duty on diesel will be increased by 14% from next year and 10% on petrol, and both excise duties will be increased in the next two years. As a result, excise duty on diesel will rise by 33,1% by 2018 and excise duty on petrol will rise by 38%. In terms of excise duties, there are still exciting increases in the draft, which have not been reflected so much publicly. You have just banned the use of special-purpose diesel as domestic fuel. This meant an increase of 354 per cent in the excise rate of domestic fuel oil used for heating. But it was not enough for you, you will increase the excise duty rate for these people by almost 38% next year. This represents a significant increase in home costs for around 3,200 households. It's quite the impression that the current coalition hates homeowners. I also mention that the Reform Party has certainly deceived the people of Estonia. During the elections, there was no mention of increasing excise duties on fuel. On the contrary, the Prime Minister also denied such a plan live in the ETV Election Studio. It was claimed that money was available to carry out its electoral promises, and now it turns out that it comes by raising excise duties on fuel. It is not possible to compare the increase in excise duties on fuel with the taxation of ordinary vices. The impact of fuel excise duties on society is significantly wider and the individual cannot actually avoid its use. So the Reform Party has become the brake of Estonian life, especially the Estonian economy. And this is not only said by the Centre Party and the opposition, that is said by many ordinary Estonian citizens who have signed more than 10,000 signatures against this bill, and also by entrepreneurs. This reactionary behaviour is also evident in raising VAT on accommodation establishments from 9% to 14%. You are ignoring the fact that the tourism sector has a very large share of the Estonian economy, which, together with its indirect effects, accounts for nearly 7%. So we are making the mistake that Latvia has already made, and we have reversed the decision. There is no clear understanding of why we should act contrary to the Estonian proverb that wise learns from the mistakes of others. The processing of the tax package at first reading today has been made virtually impossible for the opposition. There are good things in the package, increasing the tax-free minimum, for example, but as a cluster, we cannot support everything we have proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U707	Thank you, Kadri Simson! Eight minutes is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U708	I am handing over the proposal to reject the draft at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U709	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Dear Riigikogu, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has proposed to conclude the first reading of the draft 41. Nevertheless, the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the Group of the Centre Party have proposed to reject the draft 41 at first reading. That is what we need to vote on. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U710	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Since I am not sure that you will give me the floor after the vote, I will say once again, for the sake of the verbatim report, that you have the opportunity to set a ten-day deadline for submitting amendments to the draft law in accordance with the rules of procedure. I'm asking for such a welcome!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-03_U711	It was a procedural remark. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the Group of the Estonian Centre Party 41 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 36 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 56 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Thus, the first reading of Bill 41 is closed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 4 p.m. on 8 June. The Bureau considers the reasons given by the committee to be reasonable and also takes into account the fact that otherwise, the government that came to power after the Riigikogu elections would not be able to draw up a budget sooner than in the year after that. Thank you.
