ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the fourth working week of the IXth plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. No drafts or inquiries are recommended. Please, let's do the presence check! Currently 77 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 24.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U2	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Land Improvement Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, please address Tatjana Jaanson, member of the Rural Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry, my voice is very quiet today, but let us hope that you will be quiet in the Chamber while the waitress has something to say about this speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U3	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Tatiana Jaanson. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. No amendments were received. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 830. Second reading is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not continue until there is silence in the Chamber. Anyone who wants to talk to each other, please do it on the other side of the door!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Rural Commission discussed the draft law amending the Land Improvement Act 830 for the preparation of the second reading on 27 January. As the members of the Riigikogu, political groups and other committees did not propose amendments to the draft and the Commission itself did not consider it necessary to change anything, the debate was brief. The Commission took the following procedural decisions: to propose a draft of 830 on the agenda for the plenary session on 10 February 2015, to propose the termination of the second reading and to send a draft of 830 to the third reading by 12 February 2015 when the second reading is closed. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U5	Our second item today is the second reading of the Act amending the Emergency Act and the Public Transport Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the Chair of the Economic Commission Member Jaan Apple Tree.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U6	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated the draft on 1 December 2014 and the first reading was on 17 December. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 5 January 2015, the members of the Riigikogu received nine amendments from Deniss Borodich and Kalle Laanet, and five amendments from my colleague Tõnis Palts. Some proposals to amend the draft text were still made by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in order to work. In relation to the draft, AS Saaremaa Shipping Company and two law firms addressed the lead committee with their opinions and suggestions. The member of the Riigikogu Rait Maruste asked about the regulation of direct contracts contained in the draft. At the request of the Commission, the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu analysed this topic. As regards the amendment of the Emergency Act, the Commission sent a request for an opinion to the Ministry of the Interior. Now to the discussions. The Commission discussed the referral to second reading on 13, 20, 22 and 29 January. At its meeting on 13 January, questions related to the continuation of the draft procedure were discussed. Eva Vanamb, Head of the Legal Department of MKM, Ulla Saar, Chief Specialist, Merily Must, Head of the Maritime Service of the Aviation and Maritime Department, and Triinu Põdramägi, Adviser to the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu were invited to the meeting. For the sake of time savings, I would not re-list the people who had been invited to the other meetings of the Commission. Main issues of discussion. Firstly, whether regulation should be included in the Emergency Act or whether the regulation contained in the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities is sufficient. According to the representative of MKM, the Law on the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities and the Emergency Act regulate various problems. According to the MüüS, in the case of a service of general interest, it is possible to order the company to continue providing the service and to initiate the expropriation procedure for the immovable property necessary for the provision of the service of general interest. The müüS provides a lighter form of injunction for the provision of a service of general interest, but it may not be effective enough. There is also a problem in the case of MSY, since the ship as an immovable property is subject to expropriation regulation at all because it is not a property in the traditional sense, but only a movable property entered in the land register. At the same time, the expropriation would be disproportionate and would harm the interests of the owner more than the temporary forced use governed by the Emergency Act. It is not possible for island residents to offer another alternative mode of transport alongside ferry connections in case of emergency. As it is about providing vital services, it should also be governed by the Emergency Act, which will apply after the state of emergency has been declared. By its very nature, it does not regulate the specific situation but situations in which, for example, a contractual operator for some reason refuses to carry out a transport operation and has not yet had serious consequences. A service of general interest included in the MüüS may not be a vital service within the meaning of the Emergency Act. I'd like to stop at the Home Office for a while. Their opposition to the draft is due to the fact that they do not want to supplement the list of vital services, as there is also fear of entering less important services as a vital service. In the long term, the Ministry of the Interior plans to draw up the full text of the Emergency Act and they do not yet wish to open the matter. At present, the list of vital services includes passenger train traffic, which is certainly less important than ferry traffic, since, unlike ferry traffic, it is possible to use road transport. There was a further interest in whether direct contracts were necessary, legitimate and whether it was necessary to consult the European Commission when they were introduced. Regulation No 1370 of the European Commission does not give rise to any obligation to consult the Commission. In its statement, MKM does not see Regulation No 1370 going against the regulation of the cabotage regulation. The opinion of the Advocate General referred to in the opinions submitted to the Commission shall not be binding. The representative of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu held the same position as MKM on this issue at that meeting. MKM has consulted the European Commission informally. According to the European Commission, no Member State has consulted them on this issue; it is the responsibility of each Member State itself to make sure that there is no conflict with the cabotage regulation. There was also an interest in limiting line licences for commercial transport, and it was discussed whether this was necessary and urgent. The explanation of MKM's people was as follows. The regulation of line authorisations is not related to the Emergency Act. On this basis, it is intended to protect the public service contract from the payment by the State, since its amount depends directly on the revenue generated by the ticket. When I come to the amendments, you will understand that I do not want to go too far on this issue, because the regulation of line authorisations was left out of this draft amendment. I now come to the meeting of the Commission on 20 January, which voted through the draft list of amendments and agreed to continue the debate. a on 22 January 2004 and then to take procedural decisions. On 22 January it was made clear to the members of the Commission that, as the amendments to the draft were voted on on on 20 January immediately after a substantial debate lasting almost two hours, the focus on the subject was disturbed. Following the vote on the amendments, several members of the Commission had announced that they did not receive a clear picture of the details of the amendments needed to be decided. In order to avoid further confusion in the procedure for the draft, the chairman of the committee proposed that the decisions on the amendments be annulled at the meeting on 20 January and that they be taken on 29 January. a new vote. In this context, the Commission decided to repeal the decisions on the amendments adopted at its meeting on 20 January (by 7, 2 votes against and 1 abstention) and to continue the debate on 29 January. Now to the sitting on 29 January. As I said before, the same people were invited who even at the beginning of January. In the debate, direct contract regulation was a possible information obligation. The representatives of the MKM explained that direct agreements Regulation 1370/2007 is not an old measure of the Maritime Cabotage Regulation 3577/92 and does not need to be consulted by the European Commission. The officials of the European Commission responsible for the Maritime Cabotage Regulation have been repeatedly consulted and, as informal information, received, the reply that no Member State applying direct agreements has contacted them and the European Commission does not consider it necessary. As there is no penalty for failure to notify, the MKM considers that such notification is neither reasonable nor necessary. At this session, the representative of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu explained that, although initially he agreed with the positions of the MKM, he had based his later opinion on the European Commission's communication of 22 April 2014 and that it might still be an obligation to inform the European Commission. It had also submitted a written opinion to the Commission on this matter. I am going back to the comments made by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which say that the purpose of cabotage regulation 3577/92 is to open the internal markets of the Member States, while Regulation 1370/2007 allows the State to decide on direct contracts in inland waterway transport. As a large part of Estonia's inhabitants live on islands, various possibilities must be provided to ensure a consistent link with the islands. Direct contracts can also be concluded on the basis of 1370/2007 regulation in rail and road traffic. A discussion ensued as to whether and to what extent the draft relates to the current carrier. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, they are not linked and it is important to base its interpretation on the state's commitment to ensuring a vital link between the mainland and the islands. Upon the entry into force of the Act, current contracts with carriers shall remain in force until their expiry. I now come to the amendments. Amendment 1 concerns the deletion from this draft of the addition of the current Public Transport Act to the regulation of line licences in water traffic and the related amendment to the State Fees Act and the entry into force of the entry into force clause. This amendment was supported. According to the second amendment tabled by Mr Borodichi and Mr Laanet, it was proposed to delete subsection 1 (1) of the draft, which extends the basis for defining an event as a disaster. It was not supported by the Commission: 2 votes for, 7 against and 2 abstentions. The MKM representatives held that they did not accept the amendment. They also explained that they agree with the amendment to the draft, according to which the Emergency Act does not provide a closed list of events understood as 'or other event having a similar effect'. They considered that the submission of such a closed list was not justified. This provision shall refer to all events having similar effects to those of an accident or accident. Amendment 3, tabled by Mr Borodich and Mr Laane. According to this, it was proposed to delete § 1 (2) of the draft, which includes supplementing the basis for defining an event as a disaster with a reference to the disruption of ferry traffic as a vital service. This, too, was not supported by the Commission: 2 in favour, 7 against, with 2 abstentions. The MKM did not support this amendment and they explained to the Commission that the current regulation of the Emergency Act constitutes the concept of disaster as follows: large-scale chemical, biological or radioactive pollution of the environment, large-scale fire or explosion, accident or other causes of serious consequences on ships, aircraft, trains or other means of transport. Thus, there are two possible cases which are specifically defined by law and when the breakdown of the ferry connection can be regarded as a disaster, namely a marine accident and a large-scale fire or explosion. Furthermore, according to the Emergency Act, it is possible to treat as a disaster cases of serious consequences and long-term disruption of the continuity of the vital service. I will look at the time, and since there will be more amendments, I will not stop at this point. Amendments 4 and 6, which were also tabled by Kalle Laane and Deniss Borodich, wished to delete subsections 1 (3) and 2 (2) of the draft, which include the definition of ferry traffic as a vital service. Neither of these proposals was supported: Amendment 4 was in favour of Amendment 2, 8 against and 2 abstentions and Amendment 6 was in favour of Amendment 2, 8 against and 2 abstentions. The representatives of the MKM did not accept the amendment and explained to the Commission that they agreed with the author of the amendment that transport connections in the smaller islands with permanent residence were also important and must be guaranteed, but that they did not consider it justified to include all modes of transport within the scope of the Emergency Act. These amendments concern a small island of purely permanent residence, which is known to be subject to the law on the smaller islands of permanent residence. Amendments 5 and 7 were also tabled by Kalle Laanet and Deniss Borodichi and include direct contract regulations. These proposals were not supported by the Commission: 2 in favour of Amendment 5, 6 against and 4 abstentions and 2 in favour of Amendment 7, 7 against and 3 abstentions. The MKM representatives did not agree with the proposal. They pointed out that the conclusion of direct contracts, which I have already spoken about twice here, was the subject of the two previous Commission meetings, which were dealt with by Regulation No 1370/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which has also been the basis for the development of the draft MKM. MKM has provided an analysis of why they consider that there is no problem. I would like to highlight one of their claims, which confirms that the draft drawn up by the Ministry as a whole does not impose any unacceptable restrictions (which would take into account the flag of the ship, property, etc.). For the purposes of applying both direct contracts and line licensing, all European Union ships and operators have the same rights and opportunities, and therefore, in their opinion, there is no discrimination. Amendments 8 and 13 were also tabled by Mr Borodich and Mr Laanet. These concern the regulation of line permits in water traffic. As I said, the Commission had taken account of Amendment 1, according to which this text was excluded from the draft. These two amendments were considered to have been taken into account in substance and I am not going to present here the position of the MKM in the interests of time savings, but I can confirm that they did not agree with the explanations that the authors of the amendments had written in the explanatory memorandum. We now come to Amendments 9 to 12, which were received from my colleague, Mr Palts. They also proposed to amend the regulation of line permits. Since the Committee on Economic Affairs had taken account of Amendment 1, as I said before, these amendments were put to the vote and were not supported. There was no one in favour, 10 against and 1 abstention, and these proposals will not be voted on in plenary. The representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs considered that some points of the proposals could be considered in the debate on the draft Public Transport Act. I received assurances from the Commission staff that this was also the case when the draft law on public transport was being dealt with. Finally, two amendments concerning the dates of entry into force. One of the proposals had been made by Deniss Borodich and Kalle Laane, who wanted the law to apply from 1 January 2017. The second amendment had been tabled by Mr Palts, who wanted it to be valid from 1 July 2017. Neither amendment received support from the Commission. The fourteenth amendment was accepted by 1 member of the Commission, with 5 votes against and 4 abstentions. No one was in favour of Mr Palts' amendment, 5 against and 5 abstentions. Finally. The Commission's position was to refer the draft to second reading at the 807 plenary session on 10 February, to propose the termination of the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to send the draft to third reading on 18 February. a the proposal to put the draft to the final vote. Thank you. I did it in 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U7	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U8	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I actually have two questions. The first is that did you discuss in the Commission how much the draft complies with the constitutional principle of freedom of contract and the protection of property? The second question stems from the fact that you mentioned that the disruption of vital services is considered a disaster. Can this disaster also be caused by the state's own actions? Can the activities of the state be catastrophic or can it be issued to the size of the disaster?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U9	Thank you. Indeed, there were many meetings of the Commission, but we did not discuss the state's activities, the equality mark between this and the disaster. Indeed, the Ministry of the Interior was consulted many and many times on all matters relating to the emergency situation and these regulations, and the Commission received replies from the Ministry of the Interior. They state very precisely what this regulation will be and on what basis it will be possible to declare an emergency situation. In a democratic country, this cannot be done simply by looking at the sky or the air and by saying that this is now the situation. As an islander, I can see and feel that if there is a situation where traffic between the islands and the mainland is interrupted, it is an emergency for the people of the islands.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U10	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Let's open the negotiations. First call chair, Deniss Borodichi!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U11	President of the sitting! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This draft proposes two fundamental changes. First of all, the Emergency Act is amended, whose regulation and responsibilities are actually within the remit of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It is very important here that the Ministry of the Interior failed to coordinate the draft for several reasons. For example, the conditions for declaring an emergency situation are not met in the event of breakdown of ferry traffic. It is also regulated by the Law on the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities, which can already be implemented if necessary. The draft is therefore over-regulation, which has an impact on legal clarity. The legality of the regulation is also questionable in the opinion of the competent lawyers, which is why the proposed amendments do not comply with several paragraphs of the Constitution, including the principle of proportionality set out in § 11 of the Constitution. The bill and the explanatory memorandum do not state clearly what the breakdown of ferry traffic must be, which is considered a disaster within the meaning of the Emergency Act and which would enable the government to declare an emergency situation. If it is known for years that the public service contract for passenger transport will end on ferry lines between the mainland and the major islands, the termination of this agreement will not be a disaster which would enable the government to declare an emergency situation and give the right to take ferry ships into forced use, as less burdensome alternatives exist. A light declaration of an emergency situation is not allowed in a country founded on the principles of the rule of law and democracy. This view is shared by the Ministry of the Interior. It is worth noting here that, although the Ministry of the Interior did not coordinate the draft and has explained the reasons for non-coordination to the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is placing the draft on the other ministry's duties and tasks, although the regulation of the law does not fulfil the objective set out in the draft. I sincerely hope that there will be no future situation in the Riigikogu Hall where, at the initiative of the Ministry of the Environment, for example, the draft law amending the Prison Act, which amends the procedure for the execution of imprisonment, will be submitted to the plenary session, and the Ministry of Justice, together with its authorities in the area of government, will have to implement the questionable regulation contained therein. The following is a little bit of the regulation of direct contracts contained in the draft. In its letter of 30 September 2014, the Ministry of Finance stated that the direct award process is opaque and that it may also lead to a higher risk of corruption. According to the Ministry, the draft does not show how direct contracts allow for more transparent price negotiations compared to negotiations in public procurement procedures. There is also no regulation in the draft, in which cases the direct award of contracts is justified in order to ensure any equal treatment of tenderers and competition in the market. I also point out that the application of the direct agreement regulation laid down in Regulation No 1370/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council to maritime traffic in territorial waters is contrary to Council Regulation No 3577/92, the Maritime Cabotage Regulation. The second sentence of Article 4 (1) of the Maritime Cabotage Regulation lays down the principle of non-discrimination between shipowners, according to which a Member State is required to conclude public service contracts in a manner which does not discriminate against any Community ship-owner. In the present case, the regulation of direct contracts proposed in the draft is discriminatory as there are no conditions under which direct contracts are awarded. Pursuant to Article 9 of the Maritime Cabotage Regulation, Member States must consult the European Commission before adopting laws, regulations or administrative provisions... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U12	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U13	... which means that the Commission must also be consulted before the application of Regulation No 1370/2007 to passenger transport services in territorial waters. Several recognised lawyers, as well as the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu, have pointed out that the European Commission must be informed of these measures first. The informal information provided by the MKM and the informal consultations with Commission officials are not an official response and therefore the draft law on the regulation of direct contracts cannot be laid down. Finally, on the analysis and impact of the draft. Although ferry companies have been ordered by a subsidiary of the Port of Tallinn and the state has signed a contract, the Ministry considers that the draft needs to be dealt with urgently. The draft has also been drawn up in compliance with the requirements of the Code of Good Regulation, which means that there has not been a development plan. No analysis has been carried out to assess the possibility of declaring an emergency situation and the implementation of the measures concerned. The Committee on Economic Affairs asked for the opinion of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry drew up a memorandum in which, inter alia, it further reasoned its views on why it did not agree with this draft. The draft explanatory memorandum also lacks an analysis of the possibility of applying compulsory measures and the need for a change to the law, as well as the impact on the state, the company and consumers. The Ministry of Justice has also requested in this opinion in the coordination circle that the explanatory memorandum specify the content of the draft, provide a comparative analysis, and describe the effects of the law that have not been done. There is no reference to the principles of application to water traffic and the corresponding regulation of the European Union in the draft. Nor has there been a comparative analysis of the regulation and practice of other Member States in disrupting ferry traffic and in concluding direct contracts in water traffic. The explanatory memorandum merely refers to the fact that direct contracts can be regulated, as is the case with rail traffic, and that the regulation of line licences corresponds to road traffic, more specifically to bus and coach traffic regulation. I am of the opinion that the initiator should have submitted the draft explanatory memorandum to the Riigikogu as amended. This should include a comparative analysis of the draft, an assessment of the adequacy of the legal regulation and the effects of the law. The comments and proposals made by other ministries should also be taken into account. As the draft hastily drafted and the proposed amendment to the Emergency Act does not fulfil the stated objective, nor has the regulation of direct contracts been formally notified to the European Commission or confirmed there, I believe that the second reading of the draft must be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U14	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! I firmly believe that ship traffic and ferry traffic between the big islands, not only between the islands, but between all islands, is a vital service and the state must guarantee this service. But the question is how it is guaranteed. I, too, disagree on how this is done with this draft. This bill is made up of three different parts. The Economic Commission has deleted a part of the regulation of liner licences, which is disproportionately restrictive of business freedom and which essentially sought to ban commercial routes in water traffic. Consistency with law and European Union law is also questionable for the remaining parts of the draft. The Ministry of the Interior, which has competence over crisis management issues, is opposed to the regulation of the amendment of the Emergency Act. The Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance have also referred to a number of inconsistencies in the draft, asked for the draft to be analysed and for the regulation chosen to be corrected and justified. In January 2015, the Ministry of Internal Affairs sent a memo to the Economic Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, which answered the questions of the Economic Affairs Committee as to when the emergency situation could be announced and how the implementation of the forced ship-use measure is ensured. The Ministry of the Interior did not agree on the draft and disagrees by setting out, for its part, some of the conditions for declaring an emergency situation which have not been met in the present case. At the same time, three conditions should be met: (1) it must be a disaster, (2) it is not possible to resolve the situation without an emergency measure; (3) it is not possible to resolve the situation without the implementation of an emergency management arrangement. As alternative solutions can be used when ferry traffic is disrupted on ships, aircraft, etc. owned by the State, the Ministry of the Interior does not consider it possible that all three conditions for declaring an emergency situation are met in real life. In addition, the Ministry of the Interior disagreed on the following issues: The provision of stable shipping connections is governed by the law of the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities, which should be applied where appropriate. There are no reasons why the current legal regulation is inadequate. As a result of the announcement of an emergency situation, the fundamental rights of individuals may be severely restricted, and it also gives a signal that something very serious and extraordinary is happening in Estonia. As a result, foreign countries may make recommendations not to travel to Estonia, etc. The compulsory use of companies' assets affects the willingness of companies not to invest in Estonia and to engage in entrepreneurship. In addition, the Ministry of the Interior finds in its memorandum that the emergency situation cannot be declared proactively. Similarly, an emergency situation cannot be declared when the service provider declares that it is not providing the service. The Ministry has stated that if the service is not on the list of vital services, it does not mean that the service is irrelevant. According to the Ministry, the emergency law must include services whose uninterrupted operation in emergency situations is necessary for the survival of society. The continuous provision of passenger ferry traffic falls within the scope of the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act. I don't understand why one ministry regulates matters that belong to the administration of another ministry. It is not the regulation that supports, but it must interpret and implement this law. With this draft, we will only create a dangerous precedent by regulating the issues of another area of government without consent. It's a dangerous tendency. The preparation of the draft MKM has been seriously deficient. It therefore does not make sense why a raw draft haste is being dealt with, the effects of which have not been thoroughly analysed. There is also no comparative analysis of other Member States' regulations. Due to the foregoing and the conflict between the draft law and European Union law, the continuation of the draft procedure cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U16	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Pines!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U17	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, To be honest, I did not intend to take the floor, but now that I hear things going and this debate, I think I still have to say something. There are probably no party lines here today; everyone is free to act, so am I. The amendments that have been tabled are, after all, the result of the great work of two men and are well thought out. One is an island resident and the other is apparently an island supporter. I'm a man from the island, too. I'm actually treating it a little differently. If we're looking for a big legal assessment in this mess, why shouldn't we? I'm looking at it the way it's supposed to be. We know that this could in some way be linked to the results of the ferry procurement that has hit a lot of waves and to what is still happening in this area. I fully understand why MKM is presenting this bill. In the same way as for other types of services, security should be created for those who really have the only means of access to the mainland other than an airplane. What's strange about this connection being legalized as a vital line? If we look at the other side of this thing, I can't argue with you, Deniss. I have not done this legal analysis; I cannot tell the Ministry of the Interior that their arguments are not justified. I work in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and see things differently. What Mr Apple Tree was talking about today is the Commission's position, which is based on the need to act when such a situation arises. It's no joke. The deadlines have been extended for a long time, but, as far as I know, this procurement process has not quite finished in the courts so far, the ships are in construction. In this sense, it is not arbitrary that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has brought the draft to this Chamber in the light of this particular situation. It is not possible to foresee everything in life, but it is essential to deal with this issue in any case. I support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U18	Thank you. Any more calls? No requests, I'll close the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 2 is from Deniss Borodich and Kalle Laanet; the proposal of the commission is to be disregarded. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U19	I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U20	Thank you. We will vote on this proposal. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 2, tabled by Mr Borodich and Mr Laane. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. [[Shout from the hall.]] I interrupt the vote. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U21	I would like to make it clear, just in case, that if we vote against now, do we support the Commission or how it is? I'd like to make sure we understand our choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U22	I'll be more specific. The vote will be on this amendment, which has been made by the people or the group that have wished for this amendment. Their wishes will be put to the vote. It is good to find out just before the Riigikogu ends. [[Let's hear it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, quiet in the Chamber, please. I shall put to the vote Amendment 2, tabled by Mr Borodich and Mr Laane. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 7), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 53 votes to one with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 3 has been tabled by Mr Borodich and Mr Laane. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U23	Please vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U24	Let us put this proposal to a vote. Can we go to the vote now? I shall put to the vote Amendment 3, tabled by Mr Borodich and Mr Laane. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 6 votes to 49, with 3 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 4 has been tabled by Mr Borodich and Mr Laane. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U25	Please vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U26	We will vote on this proposal. Can I go to the vote now? Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote Amendment 4, tabled by Mr Borodich and Mr Laane. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 8), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 44 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 5 is from Deniss Borodich and Kalle Laanet. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U27	Please vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U28	Let's get to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 5, which has been made by Mr Borodich and Mr Laane. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 7 votes to 43, with 3 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 6 is from Deniss Borodich and Kalle Laanet. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U29	I would like to ask you to vote on this too.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U30	Let's get to the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 6, tabled by Kalle Laane and Deniss Borodich. The lead committee has not taken the proposal into account. Please take a stand and vote. The European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 7 votes to 43, with 3 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 7 is from Deniss Borodich and Kalle Laanet. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U31	Please vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U32	We will vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote Amendment 7, tabled by Mr Borodich and Mr Laane. The lead committee has not taken the proposal into account. Please take a stand and vote. 6 votes to 44 with 4 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 8 is from Deniss Borodich and Kalle Laanet; the proposal of the commission is to take the substance into account. Amendment 9 is from Mr Palts; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. According to § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 10 is from Mr Palts; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. The amendment shall not be subject to the vote either. Amendment 11 is from Mr Palts; the commission has failed. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. Amendment 12 is from Mr Palts; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. The amendment shall not be subject to the vote either. Amendment 13 is from Deniss Borodich and Kalle Laanet; the proposal of the commission is to take the substance into account. Amendment 14 is from Deniss Borodich and Kalle Laanet; the proposal of the commission is to be disregarded. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U33	Please vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U34	Let's get to the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 14, tabled by Mr Borodich and Mr Laane. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 7), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 37 votes to seven, with seven abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 15 is from Mr Palts; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. We have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 807. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U35	Today's third item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on National Opera initiated by the Committee on Culture. For a presentation, I would like to ask Lauri Luige, Chairman of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U36	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Riigikogu Committee on Culture initiated the draft Act amending the National Opera Act 767 on 3 November last year. With the draft, we will change the procedure for the approval of the members of the National Opera Board, the duration of their mandate, the basis for the liability of the members of the Board and the procedure for remuneration of the work. In addition, we will specify the terms and conditions of the contract with the Director-General of the National Opera as the governing body. The first reading of the draft act took place in s. a January 13th. By the deadline of 27 January, the members of the Riigikogu, the political groups and the committees did not submit any proposals. On 9 December 2014, the Government of the Republic delivered its opinion on the draft. The government proposed the use of the concept, the regulation of the responsibilities of the governing bodies of the National Opera, the amount of leave allowance to be paid to the Director-General of the National Opera and the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board by a new deadline. The Committee on Culture discussed the preparation for the second reading on 26 January and 9 February. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Culture decided to propose three amendments. First, the draft complements the new paragraphs of § 6 'Council' of the National Opera Act, which provide for the term of office of a member of the Council and the replacement of a member of the Council in the event of early termination of the mandate. The amendment specifies the entire version of § 6. Amendment 2: The draft stipulates that a member of the Board of the National Opera will be subject to the relevant regulation of the General Part of the Civil Code Act as regards liability. In its opinion on the draft, the Government of the Republic pointed out that since the General Part of the Civil Code Act is a general regulation, it is no longer necessary to refer to it further in the Special Act as it also applies without reference. The amendment deletes the reference to general law. Amendment 3 Paragraphs 7 and 9 of § 1 of the draft law govern the conclusion of a contract with the Director General of the National Opera. The norm technical amendment clarifies the title of the section containing the regulation of the contract to be concluded with the Director-General and, for reasons of clarity, introduces the grounds for the termination of the contract with the Director-General in the various paragraphs and the regulation of the recall of the Director-General. In its opinion on the draft, the Government of the Republic proposed that the Director-General's severance allowance should be limited to a maximum of three months instead of a fee of up to four months, which is analogous to the amount of severance allowance allowed to the board members of state companies and foundations established by the State, as set out in § 86 (3) of the State Property Act. The Commission considered the harmonisation to be justified and proposed an amendment to that effect. Finally, the procedural decisions and proposals of the Committee on Culture. On 26 January the Committee on Culture decided to submit draft 767 for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 12 February, i.e. today. On the proposal of the Riigikogu's management board, the Riigikogu approved the draft on the agenda of 10 February. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U37	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Lauri Luik. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. Let us examine the amendments. There are three of them, and they're all from the Committee on Culture. The Governing Commission's proposal is to take full account. Amendments 1, 2 and 3. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 767. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U38	We are going to the fourth item on today's agenda: Second reading of draft law amending the Tobacco Act and related laws initiated by the Government of the Republic 753. Rein Aidma, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Act 753 on the Amendment of the Tobacco Act and related laws initiated by the Government of the Republic regulates the availability of products similar to those used by tobacco products to minors and imposes a ban on advertising similar to tobacco products. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the preparation of the second reading at three meetings: on 9 December last year and on 19 and 27 January that year. The proposals were addressed by the Estonian Association of Tobacco Producers, AS Tallink Grupp, Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Elgery Group OÜ and MTÜ Tobacco-free Estonia. Together with the stakeholders, the Commission decided to propose ten amendments to the draft at its meetings on 9 December and January last year. The amendments have been drawn up on the basis of proposals made by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance. Amendment 1 amends the scope and introduces a new product group that is related to tobacco products. This amendment follows equally from the corresponding Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. Amendment 2 has been proposed by the Ministry of Finance, which brings the definitions and regulation of tobacco production into line with the relevant regulatory directive of the Council of Europe. Amendment 3 is based on the proposal for an association between the Chamber of Commerce and the Tobacco Producers, which ensures the necessary legal clarity in the Tobacco Act through well defined terms such as electronic cigarettes, plant-smoking products and products similar to tobacco products. I mean, set out their exact content. The definition of an electronic cigarette and a plant smoking product is now in line with the relevant Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. Amendment 4 amends the wording of Paragraph 24 of the Tobacco Act. It partly supports the Tallink Group proposal and proposes to allow the storage of smoke-free tobacco products on board ships by way of derogation. Since, for example, the sale of lip tobacco is authorised by way of derogation in Sweden and the sale of chewing tobacco in the European Union is not prohibited, it must be possible to store smoke-free tobacco products on board a ship if the ship is destined for a country or a country where the sale of the smoke-free tobacco product stored is permitted. For example, it must be possible to store chewing tobacco on board a ship in Tallinn if it is allowed to be sold in Finland. The storage of lip tobacco shall be permitted on board a vessel to or from Sweden if lip tobacco is sold on a vessel located on Swedish territory. Amendments 5 and 6 are made by the Ministry of Finance, namely the Tax and Customs Board. They concern specific measures for the monitoring of the Law Enforcement Act and relate to the need to use physical force, special equipment or weapon for the direct detention of illegal tobacco business operators and their goods in proceedings carried out by the Tax and Customs Board. This is an addition in line with the Law on Law Enforcement. Amendment 7 supplements the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. The sale of the products referred to as raw tobacco has been detected in Estonia. The product does not have a health warning or a tax mark. Under the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, smoking tobacco is, inter alia, considered to be ready for consumption of processed tobacco. This means that the tobacco plant must be stored in an excise warehouse after harvesting, otherwise tobacco is considered to be smoking tobacco intended for retail sale. Amendment 8 equates the requirements for advertising of a product and its components similar to a product and a tobacco product intended for use in tobacco products to the full requirements for advertising of tobacco products. The amendment is, of course, in line with the relevant directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. Amendment 9 concerns the proposed amendment to raw tobacco and provides for the simultaneous entry into force of the provisions on banning chewing tobacco and regulating the use of raw tobacco. Amendment 10 is an implementing provision whereby the advertising restriction enters into force in general, but the transitional period is up to two months. Ongoing advertising campaigns are not yet covered by this ban, but no further advertising may be carried out after two months. In conclusion, the Commission decided to send draft 753 to second reading. a By 10 February, i.e. today, the proposal to conclude the second reading. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U40	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. Let us examine the amendments. There are ten of them, and they're all from the Social Affairs Committee. Amendment 1, take full account of No 2, take full account of No 3, take full account of No 4, No 5, No 6, No 7, No 8, No 9 and No 10. The Governing Commission's proposal is to take full account. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 753. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U41	The next item is the second reading of the draft Act amending the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Rein Aidma, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair, again for the presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U42	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law was discussed in the Commission in 808 s. a on 27 January 2008. One amendment was received for the second reading, from the Central Party Group. It proposes to equalise the insurance shares of persons receiving minimum to average wages from 1 April 2016 with a coefficient of 1.0. The Commission's discussion found that, on the one hand, the financial coverage of the amendment has not been calculated and, on the other, it is not known how it will affect the entire pension system. After all, this is a change in the substance of the pension system. As the existing pension system has a very strong equal share of pension payments, or let us say, the role of solidarity, such a change is, in the Commission's view, unreasonable in this case and it was decided not to support the amendment. The Commission proposed that the draft be put on the agenda for the plenary session on 10 February and that the second reading be closed. The last decisions were taken by the Commission in a consensual manner. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U43	Thank you very much. Please ask me a question, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U44	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Aidma! After all, the subject of future pensions for low-paid workers is currently up in society and a great deal is being asked about this. Once upon a time, the creators of the pension system themselves say that they did not think that this would happen in the future. Since this issue has been up for years, I wonder if there has been any discussion in the government, both in the current government and in the seven previous years, when there was a government of the IRL and the Reform Party, so that this system could be changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U45	Thank you for your question, Marika Tuus. Unfortunately, I am not participating in government meetings, which is why I cannot reply exactly. I assume that if the current amendment contained in the bill of 808 came from the government, it was indeed a change in the substance of the term, i.e. the concept of the annual pension coefficient is replaced by the term 'pension share'. However, on the outside of what is discussed in the Commission, I will reply to you that when we talk, for example, about a minimum wage of EUR 390 per month, such a person, if he has worked for at least 15 years, will receive a pension of EUR 244, i.e. his pension is 59% of his salary. If a person receives an average salary of EUR 970 per month, his or her pension is about EUR 400, there are other details, so this is an approximate amount of EUR 570, which is 39% of his or her salary, i.e. he or she will lose 570 euros out of his or her income. If someone already earns a monthly salary of EUR 2 000, his pension is about EUR 700, which represents about 30% of his previous income, i.e. he loses 1300 euros of his income when he retires. So I think there is a lot of solidarity here. How we will see this matter in the future, whether this system needs to be changed, must be discussed very seriously. The current composition of the Riigikogu can no longer do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U46	Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U47	Thank you, manager. The rapporteur from the Commission. You said you didn't know the size of the financial cover for this change. Was the Commission even interested? If you don't even know it, how could you make your decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U48	Thank you, good questioner! The answer is that we did not find an answer in the Commission either. Since we do not know the sources of cover, we do not know how much this change will cost, and that is why the Commission decided not to support the proposal of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U49	Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U50	Thank you. That's what we're talking about. These pension scissors have become very big for both higher and lower pensions. And we know that from year to year the gap will increase even more, because this system depends too much on salary. Are you basically in favour of going over these things anyway? I understand that it is going to be quick right now, and the proposal of the Central Party Group did not find support, but is the Reform Party basically prepared to change this index system so that people, due to low wages and the fear of a small pension, do not flee Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U51	Please, Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U52	Thank you. On the one hand, my personal position does not concern what has been discussed in the Commission. On the other hand, I will say again what I have already said in reply to your previous question: pensions actually differ considerably less than wages. A person who has received a higher salary will have a significantly higher retirement income than before. There is a very strong link to this base, which is why a higher-wager loses much more than a low-wager when he retires. I brought out the numbers. So I think that this part of solidarity is enough now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U53	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! In fact, is the situation now such that every year of full - time service, a person now receives a year's letter?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U54	Thank you. The purpose of this amendment is to change the concept of itself, not the substance of the concept. This means that the term 'annual index' is replaced by 'pension unit'. This means that the pension share, which depends on the salary received, still counts as a coefficient, i.e. the ratio of the salary to the average salary, but the annual accounts are still going as one, the number 1 for each year worked.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U55	Please, Jüri Morozov, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U56	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Some of the delegates in their campaign have come up with the idea that they're gonna fix this system. Did Aivar Kokk, a member of the Riigikogu, make no proposals on this draft? I heard that only the Centre Party had proposed an amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U57	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U58	Thank you, good questioner! You are absolutely right, the only proposal for a draft law came from the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U59	Thank you, manager. I understand that the concept is being clarified, but how much does this change in the concept really change a person's pension, how much more money does it come with?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U60	Thank you, dear questioner. I think you will understand: the exact same system will continue to apply. Once again, this same annual coefficient actually accounted for each year as a year. In this case, the term is simply made more precise.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U61	Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U62	Thank you. After all, the annual coefficient did not actually represent years, but reflected the amount of wages paid. Now we call it a pension share, but it still remains to express the wage paid. There was an annual coefficient before, and now it's a pension share, but both actually express the amount of salary paid. Why couldn't that name have been a wage factor or a wage share or something else so that the name would refer to the substance of the case? Isn't it like we're replacing one name that doesn't match the content with another name that doesn't match the content?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U63	Thank you for your question. In this key, we did not consider alternative terms in the Commission. But in fact, all people who get paid are paid for a certain part of the pension fund, and the coefficient of that part is the content of this term, which means the pension share, which is the real concept. You can always consider that there may be alternative options, but right now we have stuck to this term.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U64	Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U65	Thank you. The rapporteur from the Commission. A few weeks ago, a major analysis of the current pension system was published in Postimees and it was pointed out that people earning less than average pay receive such a low coefficient or in the future a unit that, if they retire, their pension does not allow for normal living expenses. Will a change of words with this bill solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U66	Thank you, good questioner! You also understand exactly that the pension system remains the same, only the term is changed. We will not change the pension system with this bill and whether the pension system needs to be reformed in the future will be left to the next Riigikogu formations.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U67	Please, Neeme the Great, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U68	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! When you go to people and talk to them, the everyday question is, Why doesn't every year of work count as a single year of service? Humans obviously have not understood the content of this element of the formula. That is really a daily question. Can we now assure a person in a loud and clear voice that yes, every year you can count on your seniority and each year equals one year, the amount of your pension depends only on how much your salary has been, or how much your salary has been paid to the pension fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U69	Thank you. Basically, yeah, that's it. However, I would like to add immediately that this system came into force from 1 January 1999, earlier, each year had been taken as one year. After 1999, the same pension coefficient applies as the new term pension unit, the annual coefficient calculated on the basis of salary is multiplied by the person's years of employment, and every year worked is one year worked.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U70	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U71	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, I do not understand why, now that there is so little time left until the end of the work of the Riigikogu and there are dozens more draft laws in the process, it was necessary to come up with such a draft amendment of one word and replace the word 'annual coefficient' with a new term 'pension insurance unit'. If something really was to be changed, a simple term such as 'pension point', which is used in a number of European countries, or the concept of a wage coefficient, as was proposed today in this Chamber, could have been introduced to make the content understandable. The retirement point would have been very simple and understandable. I don't think it's worth it if the people still used the pension year, the pension coefficient year instead of the complicated annual coefficient. When something's complicated, people make it easier, and that's just a popular expression. Minister Kütt said that people misunderstand this pension year, i.e. the annual coefficient, not as a financial dimension, but as a temporal dimension. I think people aren't that naive, they don't think you should work on your minimum wage until you're 120 years old to get that one coefficient point. It's a complete fabrication. People, especially those with low wages, still talk about waiting for changes to prevent this great injustice from ever being passed on to future pensions, and they are starting to get a slightly better pension. Examples include shoppers, nurses, carers, ambulance workers, teachers of music schools and kindergartens, etc. They live in fear of a small pension, and because of this fear, they go to Finland or elsewhere at a rather advanced age to earn a slightly better pension. Well, that's the question, isn't it? We've been talking about this for at least eight to ten years, but everything has remained the same. The whole thing's just going to be turned on one term. That is why the Centre Party Group proposed that the insurance unit of the minimum to average earners be equal to 1.0. And if you really don't like this system, then we could consider how to change this coefficient. The problem is actually very acute. Do you think it is normal, for example, that a person who has worked as a teacher for 30 years will receive a pension of one and a half times less than an IT worker, for example? It's not normal! This is where the scissors get really big. By the way, these scissors are increasing as the current pension system is structured in such a way that the share of the insurance unit or salary increases from year to year when determining the old-age pension. This means that public old-age pension depends more and more on how much social tax has been paid for you and how much you have been paid. That's a lot of injustice. By the way, the current pension system, as Kadri mentioned here, was also mentioned in a Postimees article that the creators have even said that the current and future pension depend too much on salary. They thought that, over time, this injustice would disappear, the difference in valuing people's knowledge and their skills. But it turns out that everything keeps going up. I am very sorry that the Social Democrats and the Reform Party voted down our proposal in the Commission because there has been a debate in society and we need to change the system. This injustice in wages, the gap between women's and men's wages, the period of unemployment should not be reflected in future pensions. We cannot punish a person twice, once with a low salary and once with a low pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U72	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. There is one amendment to the draft; we will review it. The amendment is from the Centre Party Group; the lead committee has not taken account of it. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U73	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U74	Thank you. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Centre Party. The position of the lead committee is to disregard the proposal. Please take a stand and vote. The opinion was adopted by 7 votes to 40, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 808. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U75	The next item is the first reading of the Bill 843 on Supplementing the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. To give a presentation, I would like to ask Rannar Vassilyev, Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U76	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Tax Administration Act was initiated by the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu. a on 29 January 2004. The draft is driven by the collective address of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry of 25 September 2014 and aims to increase the stability of the tax environment, improve the predictability and predictability of tax changes, and allow more time for taxable persons to restructure due to tax changes. To this end, the Tax Administration Act is to be supplemented by a provision according to which the adoption and entry into force of the Tax Act or its amendment must normally be at least six months apart. This rule may be derogated from if the effect of the proposed regulation is favourable to the taxable person. However, in exceptional and justified cases, this provision allows the legislator to adopt tax laws and their amendments with a shorter deadline than six months. In particular, this concerns tax changes that require a rapid response, for example to prevent tax fraud or to respond to, or to prevent, substantially changed economic and financial stability or security situations. In short, the discussions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. For the first time, the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce was discussed on 20 January. The Chairman of the Board of the Chamber of Commerce explained what led to the collective appeal. The debate was resumed at the meeting on 27 January, where the position of the Ministry of Finance on the proposals put forward in the collective appeal was heard. To summarise their opinion briefly, it may not be necessary to add rigid legal restrictions, in particular to formulate the principle that should be within the scope of the good regulation rule, and it is important to shape the view that the stability of the tax environment is an important value to be borne in mind. There was a consensus in principle between all parties that tax changes should not generally take place overnight, without a broad debate and analysis. The Commission's discussion focused on how to strike a balance in a situation where changes in tax legislation would be predictable and support the stability of the business environment, while ensuring a swift and flexible response in "crisis situations." In drawing up this draft, this balance was sought, and with this in mind, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided at its meeting on 29 January to initiate a draft law supplementing the Tax Administration Act. This Commission decision was consensual. We have also received the position of the Government of the Republic on 5 February. The Government decided to support draft Act 843 supplementing the Tax Administration Act, according to which there should be at least six months between the adoption and entry into force of the tax changes. The Committee on Finance decided to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 11 February. The decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U77	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Rannar Vasiliev. Any requests? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 843. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. a 11 February at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U78	Today's last item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure, the Law of Obligations Act, the Code of Civil Procedure, the Act implementing the Code of Enforcement Procedure and the General Part of the Civil Code Act. I would like to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu member Kalle Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft amends the Code of Civil Procedure to prohibit arbitration in disputes arising from consumer credit agreements, and the Law of Obligations Act and the General Part of the Civil Code Act, with a view to imposing a cap on the percentage of credit in consumer credit agreements. According to the draft, the arbitration agreement is void, which is the subject of a dispute arising from a consumer credit agreement. Thus, in the future, the creditor who is engaged in his economic or professional activity cannot agree to settle disputes with the consumer and the arbitration panel has no competence to resolve disputes arising from the consumer credit agreement. According to the draft, the consumer credit agreement is negligible if the annual percentage rate of charge paid by the consumer is more than three times the average of the last six months published by Eesti Pank for consumer loans granted by credit institutions to private individuals. Thus, in the future, the consumer credit agreement will be void due to the already too high rate of charge, the additional presumptions leading to the conflict of good manners, which has proved too difficult to prove to consumers under current law, do not need to be taken into account in accordance with the draft. I would point out that the text of the draft is identical to the text of the Act implementing the Code of Civil Procedure and the Law of Obligations Act, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Enforcement Procedure and the Act amending the General Part of the Civil Code Act 713 prepared by the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu in the Riigikogu on 28 January 2015, and the explanatory memorandum corresponds essentially to the explanatory memorandum to the original text of this same draft 713. Since this draft government was just before the Riigikogu proceedings, I am not going to repeat for a very long time the objectives that we are trying to achieve with this draft law. The main reason, however, is certainly to protect the borrower from unreasonablely high rates of charge, so that the lender cannot take advantage of the borrower's situation in which he is in trouble and agrees with all the conditions, and then he is put on a very high interest rate, a high contract fee or some other expense. If these limits are set, the rights of the borrower are protected. In the first and second reading of the draft Government, all the political groups supported it, but unfortunately the Social Democrats did not vote in favour, and for some reason the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica did not vote in favour... I am sorry, the Centre Party Group and the Pro Patria and Res Publica Alliance did not vote in favour. I'm sorry again! I hope that this time, all the political groups will support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U80	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The results of the vote, both on this earlier draft and on this draft, you said. But how did a person who held the office of a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs for almost four years feel about the climate in which this draft was dealt with in the Committee on Legal Affairs? Can we hope now that this bill will work out and that it will be acceptable to the'coalition' and 'opinion'?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U82	Thank you. Indeed, the atmosphere in the Commission was consensual and fully supportive, but in fact, it was equally constructive when dealing with the above-mentioned government draft. Even then, there were no problems in the Commission, and we all worked hard to ensure that the draft really met expectations. It was therefore a very big surprise that there were no votes of support at third reading in this Chamber. I don't know if it was such an accident at the time or the beauty of the game. I hope that this will not happen again, because the Commission worked in a consensual manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U83	Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U84	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Did I understand your report correctly that the composition of the Riigikogu has changed before the elections? You said that the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Centre Party did not support the adoption of the bill, which of course is not correct, because some of the members of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union who were in the Chamber voted in favour of it. So you weren't precise in that sense. However, as a lawyer and chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, it should be precise. However, as far as the composition is concerned, when the Social Democrats and the Reform Party voted in favour, the majority should have been guaranteed. Has the formation changed in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U85	Thank you. Yes, there were also some Social Democrats and some members of the Reform Party. Of course, I have to make it clear that I am not the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, but I am the waitress. Perhaps I really have not followed the finger, and maybe there were some members of your group who voted in favour of the draft, but there were definitely people in the Chamber who simply did not vote. If there had been a little more support from both the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Centre Party Group, this bill would certainly have been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U86	Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U87	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I think you have no reason to apologise for the Socialists, because they were not in the Chamber. Is it excuseable if a person doesn't work? We were there. I don't know what those reasons were, but the coalition was actually short of 11 votes. Perhaps you will read your lines and say that some members of the Reform Party and the Social Democrats did not vote, not just the IRL and the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U88	Thank you. I cannot answer individually for every member of the Riigikogu who was not in the Chamber and who was absent. I know that many of our group members did indeed have such tasks that they were away from Estonia on a mission. However, there were people in the Chamber who simply did not support the draft, but this is, of course, a free choice for every member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U89	Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U90	Thank you. You raised the subject of this vote so keenly here. Do you have an overview of where reform parties were? As far as I know, there were nine or ten missing. You're complaining to people who were here or were in an office somewhere and didn't vote, but those who didn't bother to come to Toompea, as if they weren't responsible for what's going on in this hall. As far as I know, your coalition partner, the Chairman of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor, was sitting in his office at the time, a few decades away from here, and did not want to vote. Why do you have such an interesting condemnation of political affiliation, not of the actual vote and of the vigilante's actions? Maybe you can explain your position.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U91	Thank you, dear questioner. It's like I haven't really condemned anyone. I stated the fact that, during the procedure, the draft which preceded the draft currently being discussed, i.e. the government's draft which failed, all the political groups in the Commission were very unanimous in their support and also in their support for it in the Chamber. Indeed, as I know, some or even most of the members of our group were present for their duties outside Estonia and could not vote in any way. It is not possible to vote from Brussels, for example. But if you don't vote for the people who are in the hall, who have this green button within the arm and who have said before that they will support this bill, then it will simply be irrational and incomprehensible to me. Of course, I cannot say for the chairman of the Riigikogu what his duties were at the time and why he did not vote, nor can I answer for many other specific members of the Riigikogu. I'm not judging anyone. I was just puzzled by this, because we could have adopted this bill at the time, rather than come out with this bill again.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U92	Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U93	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! Looking around this Chamber now and hearing the enthusiasm of all the political groups to vote in favour of this bill, do you think there is a possibility that this bill will receive more than 101 votes in favour? [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U94	Thank you, good questioner! This would, of course, be a precedent in Riigikogu practice, but it would be good if it received 51+ votes, then we would certainly be satisfied.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U95	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. I would like to ask for a co-report from the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Neeme Suur.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U96	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was discussed by the Committee on Legal Affairs on Thursday 29 January. a. Members of the Committee on Legal Affairs were present, including Kalle Laane and Peeter Võsa. Indrek Niklus, Head of the Department of Private Law of the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, and Jekaterina Agu, Adviser to the same department, were invited to the discussion of the item. Since the draft is clearly a re-examination of the draft 713 which was just pending before the Committee on Legal Affairs, the members of the committee did not have any questions or proposals either. We took procedural decisions: to conclude the first reading, to appoint Neeme Suur as rapporteur, to carry out the first reading today and to set the deadline for amendments at 10 a.m. on 12 February 2015. All procedural decisions were taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-10_U97	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Neeme the Great! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 844. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. a 12 February at 10 a.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting is closed, the agenda has been exhausted. I wish everyone a nice day and see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 11.44 a.m.
