ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the briefing. Requesting presence check! 45 members of the Riigikogu are present, 56 are missing. Today, Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu and Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur participate in Question Time. There are nine respondents to the request, therefore, the honourable Riigikogu, please give me the opportunity to submit an additional question for each of the main issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U2	The first question is for Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! The planned increase in the budget volume for the coming year is EUR 358 million. As the volume of euro support is rather decreasing, the share of the budget on the revenue side, which must ensure its growth, is well above EUR 500 million. We have a problem with how the money comes together when we read the budget. In this regard, I would like to ask how much the tax burden is increasing. You have clearly maintained the view that the tax burden must not increase. How much do indicators such as GDP, as well as inflation, appear to increase in relation to additional budget receipts? We have noticed a bit of a controversial bill when we browsed the budget in one place and another.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U4	All the most important figures concerning the budget and the economic environment, including the figures you asked about, are set out in the first chapters of the explanatory memorandum to the state budget. I recommend that all members of the Riigikogu at least look at this introductory part of the state budget in the explanatory memorandum, because it gives a very good and up-to-date picture of the state of the economy, not just the budget, but the wider state of the economy. All the figures are well written there, as is the comparison with the draft budget for the previous year, i.e. this year's budget. On the basis of these data, you can also correct the exact percentages nicely. As far as the forecast of budget revenue is concerned, as in previous years, we have based our forecasts on data from the Ministry of Finance and have been conservative rather than overly optimistic in forecasting revenue. This has also been demonstrated by the actual implementation of the budget for the last two years. In fact, in 2014, revenue exceeded costs considerably, and we can already say with confidence that this year will be the case. As a result, it was in 2014 and will also be in surplus in 2015 both structurally and nominally.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U5	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U6	Thank you. I could not answer all the questions, particularly whether the tax burden would rise and how these increases would work. I have, of course, looked at this first part of the budget statement. I think that there is a little bit too optimistic a forecast for GDP growth, but I ask you this. An increase in the inflation rate to 2% as a result of a reduction in the negative impact of external factors, and so on, is this realistic in a situation where we are dealing with a rather negative inflation issue? What's it gonna be for anyway? Are you considering, purely, that the rise in excise duty will lead to our inflation so high? Our calculations tend to show that in order to achieve this result, we have to take a race in the second half of the year. Where's it coming from?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U7	Thank you. You have been able to ask the right number of questions in this minute, but I ask you to understand that I have two minutes to answer. If there are so many questions, there really is no answer to everything. But I'll do my best. Inflation, like all other economic indicators, is forecast not by politicians but by experts. And it is good practice that politicians do not dispute this peer review of the coalition or opposition. It is never a 100% accurate look to the future. Even with the best economic knowledge, forecasting cannot be an exact science, but it is the best knowledge Estonia currently has. My advice is not to challenge this information. At the same time, I can say with certainty that the share of excise duties in inflation is negligible, so there is no need to worry that the increase in the price of beer or vodka or tobacco will have a significant impact. It doesn't work. As far as the tax burden is concerned, the tax burden on labour is falling due both to the tax exemption for low-paid people and to the increase in the tax-free minimum, while the tax burden on harmful consumption is increasing. Next year, excise duties on alcohol and tobacco as well as on fuel will increase. The total tax burden is forecast to increase by 0.2%. This is an initial assessment because, as you know, the tax burden is not only taken into account when it comes to how high tax rates are, but also how well taxes are collected. In recent years, the tax burden has been statistically increased by the particular feature that taxes have been better received at the same rates.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U8	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister! I came to this hearing right from the castle of Toompea, where there's a crowded meeting. I was specifically asked to ask you a question in this Chamber. In fact, this meeting discusses both refugee policy and the standard of living of the people. The slogans are varied, and people ask why neither our head of government nor our ministers ever attend folk events that are very often held in front of Toompea Castle. You also came across the crowd today to this half-empty hall. Here's my question. Are you and your ministers afraid to communicate directly with the people? Are you afraid of your people that you will never come before them to give a speech when people are gathered before Toompea Castle?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U10	Thank you. I find it difficult to comment on why the hall is half empty. The government representation is fully in place, we do our job responsibly. As for the meetings in front of the castle, I really haven't made it to everyone, but I've stopped by some people. Last time farmers wanted the government to have solidarity with dairy farmers and pig farmers. We've been doing this in our own decisions. The President of the Republic also stressed this from this very point of view, and I have emphasised this when transferring the state budget. These were constructive messages that needed the attention of Parliament and the government, and we were able to respond to these messages. As far as the messages of today's meeting are concerned, it is up to you to assess whether it is possible for Parliament to do something with them, or whether it is organised today's meeting, in particular, in order to earn popularity points for the organisers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U12	The next question is also for Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! We have now had the opportunity to get to know the 2016 state budget briefly, and one thing has left to be scribbled. If we look at the share of education in the budget, it has fallen. In a situation where the government has highlighted education as a priority, the decline in the share of nearly 3% is very striking. As Prime Minister, how would you explain what happened in the state budget disputes, that such a 3% drop in education happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U14	Thank you. I have good news for you. It is all about the reduction in education costs that is temporary and linked to the change in the European Union's financial period. As a former member of the government, you probably know very well that euro money is not evenly distributed in the budget over the years, and especially during the period that is in place this year and next year, there may also be temporary declines in other areas of life. The next year, however, some areas are expected to rise significantly as early as next year. The reason is very simple: the current seven-year budget period has ended, the end has been drawn up, the last funds have been paid out, while the new period is only beginning. It is not surprising that in some years, one or another measure has not been taken in some areas, or that in some areas, there is a parallel use of the money at the end of the previous period as well as the money at the beginning of the new period. In order to get an accurate picture of the funding of education, it is important to know that in the next seven years we will channel a great deal of European Union resources into education. Education is a high priority in the distribution of euro money and, if the sums of the European Union, which, as has been said, are fluctuating, are out of the picture, the education costs of the general government will increase by about 35 million euros. Compared to comparable data, it can be said that, like the budget as a whole, the amount of education is increasing. You are right that education is a priority for the government. And in the field of education, the top priority is the increase in teachers' salaries.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U15	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U16	Thank you. Prime Minister, I'll take your word for it. You said that next year, the government's priority is to raise teachers' salaries. Now, if you start categorizing and looking at the box on general education, we can see that the teachers' wage fund is obviously the biggest source of expenditure. Of course, it is paid through local governments, some through public schools and a small part through private schools. It stands out that in primary school, a significantly lower amount has been taken into account for the extra wage payment than the positive fact that the number of pupils in primary school has increased in the following year. I would also point out that in the negotiations held on 7 October with representatives of Estonian local governments both from the country and from the city, both the minister and representatives of towns and municipalities highlighted the concern that the ratio between the increase in the number of primary school pupils and the increase in the pay of teachers may mean that the pay of teachers will not increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U17	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U18	Since you didn't finish the question, I'm trying to figure out what you wanted to ask. More or less, I do know where you're going. Indeed, the number of students varies over the years, and it fluctuates quite a bit. The practice so far has been that if, for example, the number of students has decreased in some years, the corresponding amount has not been withdrawn from the Ministry of Education and Research's budget. The Ministry has usually found ways of internalising certain relocations. In itself, we still have to take this trend into account, this is not a positive trend, but it is a fact that we have to take into account that the number of students as a whole is decreasing. This also means that if the number of students is to increase in a given year, it must not be drawn to far-reaching conclusions and should immediately start to increase the school network or the number of teachers. However, the reality is that the number of students in the country as a whole is in decline. Thus several governments have tried to optimise the school network and ensure that quality education can be obtained anywhere in Estonia. Looking at the last few years, the number of teachers has not been exponentially, but has been decreasing year after year, and this has provided an opportunity to raise wages further by using the payroll fund. I believe that the pay of teachers next year will increase more than the additional amount required for the payroll, because there are several other sources.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U19	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U20	Prime Minister! The Riigikogu has adopted the R &amp; D strategy 'Knowledge based Estonia' for the years 2014 to 2020. This strategy has a very beautiful implementation plan, which clearly expresses a general effort to provide education through science. However, if we look at the budget completed by 2016, the share of science in this budget will fall the most. Please tell us how we can meet both the objective of the operational programme, which was to allocate 1% of GDP to science in 2015, and to carry forward our beautiful idea of providing education through science at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U21	Thank you. Here too, the euro will probably play a role. But I fundamentally agree with you that the objective of achieving 1% of government expenditure in this period of research money and 3% of GDP must be considered important. Euro money is far from the only source on which it can rely, of course, the state itself must also contribute. But let us look at the research costs of the government sector without the money of the European Union, as I explained in reply to the question of Mailis Reps, the volatility of the EU's funds is largely due to short-term and temporary reasons, such as the failure to launch specific measures. Details can certainly be asked by the Minister for Education and Research who can confirm these measures by means of a regulation. However, if the research costs of the government sector are taken separately without euro money, this amount will be EUR 99,7 million in 2015 and EUR 114,1 million will be provided for by the draft State Budget Act in 2016. If measured as a percentage of gross domestic product, there is an increase from 0.48% to 0.53%. But, broadly speaking, I agree with the questioner that the allocation of research funding does not serve our purpose and we need a longer-term plan to reach this 1%. I hope that Parliament, also the Commission, where you are working, will also help to think about how to achieve this long-term objective. Clearly, one year's budget doesn't do miracles.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U22	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U23	The next question is the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I'll explain the problem a little bit. The court has decreed maintenance allowance for raising a child. The claimant is a grandmother who has been appointed guardian and is like a mother against her. The fact that the Social Insurance Institution found that no money should be paid does not mean that the child's growth should be supported by a gap or a small deficit of the law. What is the solution? Both regulations speak of appeals to the courts, but they have not, in fact, been appealed against. The Social Insurance Institution simply considers that it may challenge the decision of the court. What happens now?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U25	Honourable questioner! The general and clear view is that the interests of the child are central in such matters. A child-remaining person must receive this allowance. You referred to a maintenance allowance issued by a court order. In order to ensure that, during the legal proceedings, the maintenance allowance which the State may claim may be refunded, the Social Insurance Board must pay the money out. If the decision of the Social Insurance Board is such that the person considers that it does not comply with the law and the court order, he or she has the right to appeal within 30 days. The law on maintenance provides for this possibility. If the Social Insurance Board does indeed rely on a formal basis and it seems unfair that this money will not be paid out if there are no objective circumstances behind it that rule out the payment of this money in the meaning of the law, then there is certainly a need to consider eliminating this deficit in the law. In any case, I would ask you to provide me with specific materials so that we can investigate this matter. Stronger pressure on maintenance debtors to pay maintenance money is one of the direction of government policy. The Ministry of Justice will come up with concrete proposals in the near future. We propose, among other things, that those persons who do not fulfil their obligation to their child be granted the right to extend their identity documents, that they be prohibited from travelling outside the Schengen area from Estonia, and that bailiffs be given the right to have access to the bank account details of those persons in order to obtain an overview of their financial situation. We also propose that these persons take money from the second pillar of their pension. It cannot be that a person who neglects his or her obligations to his or her child earns that money and instead collects it for his or her pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U26	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U27	The next question is for Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U28	Mr. Minister of the Interior! I have to admit that I have only recently learned during a meeting that, apart from the standard fingerprint database, which countries have created mainly for police purposes, there is now a database of fingerprints of migrants created by the Dublin Agreement. I am interested in whether or not these databases are interconnected in Estonia and more widely in the European Union. Can our police use this database and are they technically compatible? In short, have we practically reached the point where an Estonian police investigator can search the Spanish fingerprint database and vice versa?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U29	Good questioner! On a practical level, we have been there for quite a long time so that we can ask our partners for fingerprints. In particular, this will take place through Europol and Interpol. As far as criminal proceedings are concerned, the fingerprint exchange system of these proceedings is called AFIS, or Automated Fingerprint Identification System, and through it all forms of exchange of information related to ordinary criminals. We've already reached our forensics institute so far that we have a chance to see a human facial image in addition to a fingerprint. As far as migrants are concerned, it has indeed been agreed in the European Union that since migrants often do not have an identity card when they enter the country, they must be identified and one of the ways of identifying them is fingerprinting. They shall be entered in a database called Eurodac. Eurodac provides access to the system by the authority authorised by each country, which we have at the Police and Border Guard Board, because they process applications for international protection. So this is the data exchange. In particular, the system is designed to ensure that, if one country has said no to an application for international protection, it can be identified through the database and, if that person has arrived in another country, it is possible to say no immediately, because one country has not already been said.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U30	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U31	I ask you more specifically, Minister, I do not know this area. Are the Western countries' systems programmed to be more or less harmonised? Are the databases used in the United States, for example, technically similarly structured, or are there at least some kind of transition possibilities? Is this system taking the form of a "global fingerprint database"?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U32	Thanks for the clarification. Eurodac is unlikely to become global. This is an agreement between the countries of the European Union, which only concerns asylum seekers. As far as other fingerprint databases are concerned, of course the standards are common. The same AFIS is a system that all Member States can use. We in Estonia still use the fingerprints stored on paper as the "source" for entering into the database, which are uploaded into it digitally. This option is used by a large number of countries. I believe that in the near future, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the Institute of Forensic Science, we will be able to reach the point that we are taking fingerprints all over Estonia into digital form. That would speed up the process a lot. So once we have a criminal or a suspect, his fingerprints will no longer be taken on paper, but on a whole scale digitally. With regard to the index finger, this capability already exists at the Police and Border Guard Board, which concerns our biometric data and passport-portable chip information. Just criminals we take more prints, not just index finger prints. We're moving in that direction so it's all digital. But yes, this international standard is jointly established, all countries can read fingerprints.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U34	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U35	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! Do you know that Estonia's population, according to statistics, has been consuming 44.6%, or almost half, of imported chilled and frozen pigmeat for several years. In particular, we are brought pork from Germany, Poland and Denmark. Do you think it's right that this frozen pork is just used in kindergarten and school catering?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U36	Thank you. There is free movement of goods within the European Union. It is very difficult to make a complaint to individual processors if they choose to use imported pig meat instead of very good quality and delicious Estonian pork. The representatives of the pigmeat sector have visited not only the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruuse, not only in this Parliament in the Committee on Rural Affairs, but also in the House of Stenbock, directly asking me to have solidarity with the pig farmers and to buy Estonian pork. They have asked for support measures, money, they have asked the Estonian state to buy pig meat from the so-called third zone for canned meat, because they believe that there is a large overproduction of pigs. At the same time, a person at the table announced that despite telling the Prime Minister that there is overproduction of pigs in Estonia, he now says that it is not possible to buy a high-quality pig from Estonia. And he's bought it from abroad. I can't formally reproach him, but I think you'll understand if I, as a citizen, am surprised and see a certain contradiction in the words and actions of individual people.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U37	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister! Do you think it matters whether chilled and frozen pork or live pigs are introduced into Estonia? As we know, the introduction of live pigs is also a job for our own people, while meat imports leave the processing money in the exporting country. What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U39	Thank you. Once again, as Prime Minister, it is none of my business to give guidance to specific companies where they could buy pigs. As a consumer, however, I am currently following very closely what I am buying. Knowing that Estonian pig farmers are going through a difficult time, I will not only see that the pork processor's brand is domestic, but I will also make sure that the packaging states that it is a pig that has grown in Estonia. This is my way as a citizen to show solidarity with this agricultural sector, which is in difficulty. The pig meat sector as a whole, including some processors, some of the leading workers, has asked the state to use taxpayers' money to buy pork from Estonia in showing solidarity. And the government has made that decision. We have agreed that not only will we give them crisis help, but we will also buy up the pigs in the third zone to make them canned. This is regardless of whether producers who have gone to Estonia to ask for support to Estonian pig farmers themselves bring the meat in frozen or chilled or as live pigs. I see some of them are talking differently when they're actually acting. And there's nothing to stop me from expressing a little surprise about it. But as a citizen, I can assure you that I am happy to eat Estonian pork, because it is of high quality and delicious.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U40	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U41	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! Recently, farmers went to Toompea to protest, and I think they brought a very clear message to Tallinn. Pig farming is in crisis, 400 dairy farms are under threat of closure. If I look at the country's budget for next year, there will only be EUR 4.6 million in additional support for farmers. Top-up, which could be EUR 21.5 million, does not exist once again in the state budget, and for the third year in a row, as the only country in the European Union. How is open market competition possible for our farmer to survive, and why are you letting one of our most promising business sectors disappear? Why is the country not helping its farmers? Why did farmers come here to Toompea? What was their message?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U42	Thank you. I'm glad I can explain this to you in detail. Not all agriculture is currently in crisis; the crisis is precisely the rearing of pigs, which Siret Kotka asked about. I think it is very important that the sector itself, including pig processors, show solidarity with Estonian pig farmers and buy pigs raised in Estonia. It's the least I think we can do. The dairy sector is also in crisis. For these two sectors, pig farming and dairy, the state has allocated crisis aid of approximately EUR 39 million during this year's decisions. As the top-up decision of next year, milk production can be supported with a maximum of EUR 9 million. The government has proposed that Parliament allocate EUR 7.6 million, of which 3 million will be paid out this year. I've also spoken to a number of farmers. If part of the money is already paid out in this year's budget by redeploying the budget, they would rather be pleased. The sooner help arrives, the better. The rest of the top-up would mostly go to cereal cultivation. I have no objection to discussing whether or not cereal cultivation needs to be subsidised at the moment, but it must be taken into account that cereal cultivation is currently making one of the greatest profits in history. Unlike dairy and pig farming, there is no crisis there. When I have met with representatives of agricultural organisations, they have quite frankly said that if taxpayers' money is limited, and it is always limited, please focus on pig farmers and dairy farmers. Focus on the money that the taxpayer always has in a limited way! And that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U43	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U44	The next question is for Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U45	Honourable Minister of the Interior! According to current public information, the first refugee family arrives in Estonia around Christmas, and the current prediction is that about one family per week will arrive. However, only a few municipalities have reported that they are ready to accept war refugees and refugees. Here's the question. Certainly, these individual municipalities cannot carry all of these 550 people. If voluntary municipalities do not come, what is the next step of the Ministry of the Interior to distribute refugees in Estonia? And the second question would go on. Do those municipalities that have announced at council level that they are unable and unwilling to accept anyone have the right to give up completely and no one is forcing anything on them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U46	Good questioner! The focus of this issue should, of course, be on the Minister for Social Protection. We have so agreed in Estonia that the Ministry of the Interior will be responsible until the moment when people reach Estonia. From there, they are mainly dealt with by institutions involved in the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs, institutions associated with the Ministry of Education and Research and, where appropriate, the people of the Ministry of Culture. But I can assure you that we will do everything we can to ensure that when people get here, they don't have to go to the accommodation center, they go directly to their residence. If there is little or no space available in municipal buildings, it is always possible to use other options. For example, church congregations have provided help to accommodate people on their property. We have jointly reviewed the apartments and other premises owned by the State Real Estate Company. Some entrepreneurs have contacted and have a place to live in addition to their job. Finally, there is also a free market. So there will be solutions to these housing problems. But let's start by saying that these people really want to come to Estonia and build a new place for themselves here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U47	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U48	Minister, thank you for your good answers. I'm just asking for more detail on this. Once the municipalities have decided that they cannot and do not wish to accept anyone, I stress, I do not want to! In these municipalities, doesn't the Ministry of Internal Affairs search for vacant dwellings through different organisations and State Real Estate AS? Do you not knowingly accommodate incoming refugees in the municipalities that have decided at council level that they do not want to receive refugees? Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U49	In that case, I would have a question as to whether local governments are violating Estonian laws. If a person wants to move and has a legal basis for this, such as a rental contract, the Population Register Act says that a person has the right to reside there and register his or her place of residence. The legal basis is either the tenancy agreement or the consent of the owner to make the notification of residence. So if a person moves to live somewhere, either on a rental dwelling or on the surface of a municipality, which in such a case is in the form of a rental dwelling, he or she has the right to register it as his or her place of residence. As regards whether or not municipalities agree, the municipalities first of all indicated whether or not they had available dwellings, rather than whether or not they wanted someone to come to their administrative territory to live in a stranger's territory.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U50	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U51	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U52	Good President! Prime Minister! A few days ago, we were here discussing such a thing as the TTIP agreement, or the TTIP, and my question then was what the government considered to be the weak points that are currently in this planned agreement. On this question, you spoke of many positive things, and I agree, there are certainly many positive things. But I'm going to repeat my question today. What are the weak points of TTIP?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U53	Thank you. As I said to you last time, I believe that trade has a great deal to gain, not only from Estonia, but from the European Union as a whole. And I believe that the United States also has a great deal to gain from the reduction of barriers to trade between the United States and the European Union. A large part of the world's wealth has been created because not everyone is picking on all goods and services alone, but is exchanging goods and services. As we know, society's prosperity has grown over time, precisely because trade has grown. In my opinion, the creation of a common free trade area such as the European Union and the US in the lion's region can still be positive. If you really want to look at where to find the negative, you'll find it. If you mean the details that have been asked as if they were concerned and you want answers to them, then the best place to find them is the homepage of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has a separate heading on the free trade agreement: 'TTIP's myths and reality'. There, many doubts have been well explained, whether it concerns GMOs or intellectual property, for example. From there, you can see what the actual situation is and what the treaty contains, what it doesn't. So I suggest you read it. And if you want, I can leave you a copy of myself in paper.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U54	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U55	Thank you, President-in-Office. Thank you, Prime Minister. I've studied these materials and read them. They have such a propaganda taste. But for my part, I would like to ask you whether you have also studied the Environmental Law Centre's study or perhaps even mentioned a report that points to two major problems in this regard. One is the harmonisation of regulations. I am thinking of regulations concerning food safety, chemicals, GMOs, which are considerably stricter in Europe than in America. The second is the question of the 'non-national investment protection court'. Have you read this Environmental Justice Centre report?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U56	Thank you. It seems to me that we can exchange paperwork here. I can give you a document called Myths and Reality, and you can introduce me to this report you referred to. I don't mind reading it too. I am absolutely sure that people who deal with the issues of the free trade agreement every day are also familiar with all kinds of problems. It is not for nothing that these negotiations have already lasted ten rounds, and next week the 11th round is coming. It's clear that everything in the details needs to be settled. As regards the issue of GMOs in particular, I remember that during the previous and especially the previous government and Riigikogu membership, the European Union Affairs Committee was often also discussing how the European Union should view GMOs, what the future of GMOs is and so on. These issues were discussed quite thoroughly in Parliament at the time. As the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has pointed out in black in white, we need to know that the European Union will not change its basic legislation as a result of the free trade agreement and will not make any concessions on matters that concern human health. I have no reason to doubt that in the European Union, all the requirements necessary to ensure human health will continue to be met in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U57	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U58	The next question is also for Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U59	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! There has been a real witch hunt in the press for a long time now around the expenses of members of the Riigikogu. I have information that something like this has been given to ministers and executives. And here's the question: is it true that ministers and directors of agencies have bank cards of the institution, which are used to cover various costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U60	Good questioner! That's a pretty unexpected question. In fact, I have several bank cards between my wallets from a number of banks operating in Estonia, but none of them is related to anything other than my personal account. And I have not asked the state for a bank card related to the state budget, nor has anyone offered it to me. But it's clear that all the work-related expenses will be paid for. I believe that Members of Parliament, too, must be properly paid for, which is clearly work-related, necessary in order to carry out their work sensibly. As Prime Minister, it is not appropriate for me to have a say in this debate on Parliament's reimbursement of expenses. But you are right that this debate has lasted for a very long time, about as long as Parliament has been together in Estonia. I don't know about the pre-war period, but as far as we can remember from the post-Occupation period, there may not have been any parliamentary formations during which this issue would not have been analysed very thoroughly. And when you look at current newspaper articles, even there, examples often tend to be from 10 to 15 years ago. So nothing new under the sun.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U61	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U62	Thank you. As I understand it, you claim that neither ministers nor directors of agencies have an institution's bank card that can be used to cover certain costs. Well, there's nothing else. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U63	Not knowing what exactly you're asking, I didn't do a comprehensive study of the entire public sector. I said as Prime Minister, I don't have an authority card. I asked the Minister of Justice, sitting on my right hand, who said that he did not have a map of the state budget either. [[???Vahelehüüe: 'Võib-olla kõigil teistel on!'???]] Whether anyone else in the public service doesn't have that card, I don't know how to say it. Maybe some people do. But what is important is that, even if someone is using a card like this, it must certainly be accompanied by very thorough reporting and, most importantly, any such cost can still only be related to work. I see no problem when Members are also compensated for their work expenses. But, of course, society gets angry when there is a reasonable doubt as to whether one or the other of the costs of work are related to work. For all civil servants, it is obvious that there will be a check if somebody makes any payments on the card. But once again, neither I nor the Minister of Justice, sitting at my right hand, from whom I was able to ask, has such a card, nor has anyone offered it to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U64	I will also stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U65	And now Prime Minister Taavi's garment is asking for Arno Bridge. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U66	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Prime Minister! Here's the question. In your previous answers, you have already touched on support for agriculture in connection with the current crisis situation. But does the Government of the Republic and the Ministry of Rural Affairs also have a prospective programme to restore our dairy herd to the level that it was some time ago by 2020, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U67	Thank you. This is a somewhat unexpected question. At present, the dairy sector itself considers that there is more overproduction and some producers are considering reducing livestock to prevent losses. It is not logical, therefore, that they would like to increase competition in the sector, either with the support of the State or in some other way. This would only increase overproduction. Today's reality is that Estonia produces about 1.7 times more milk than we can drink on the gang here. Since similar trends exist in other European countries, we know that some markets have fallen away, there have been problems with the disposal of milk, which in turn has affected the price of milk in such a way that the dairy herd does not make a profit for all producers. In my opinion, if you think about sustainable solutions, not only will finding new markets in the area of raw milk make it easier to find new markets with geographic factors very limited, but also the government's plan, using UCITS money, to invest locally in milk processing capacities. It would then be possible to produce more and much higher value added products on the spot in Estonia. If necessary, we could sell our produce farther from Estonia and make a profit for the dairy sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U68	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Prime Minister! As we know, we have one of the largest dairy herds in Europe. In Latvia and Lithuania, for example, there are also holders of one or two cows. Hard times will pass soon, I hope. Should we not also be determined to support the re-establishment of mini-milk herds in order to promote rural development? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U70	Thank you. That's a tough question. I remember when I was a kid, too, when Alma's milk meant a mannequin from a neighbor's Alma milk stand that could be followed by a bike. It was freshly chilled, milked in the morning of the same day. However, unfortunately, this kind of production has not been competitive for quite a long time alongside industrial production. You are right to say that there are one of the largest dairy herds in Estonia. Yesterday, I met people from Väätsa Agro, where there's a 2020 herd. I've talked to the owners of a pack of different sizes before. They say it's kind of inevitable. If we do not just want agriculture as a lifestyle or a hobby, but want to cope with regional competition and make a profit, then large herds will offer more opportunities than one or two cows. Large herds grow much efficiency. For example, the same 2200 herd can be milked with a few people thanks to highly innovative machines, which shows that the efficiency of the workforce in the sector has increased a great deal. It is clear that it is still very, very difficult to compete with one or two cows.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U71	Thank you. I will also stop dealing with this issue. Honourable Riigikogu! Now it's gone like there's three options. Firstly, were the questions very good, the second option was whether the answers were very good, and the third option, the questions and the answers were both very good. In any case, ministers were able to answer questions on the nine issues registered yesterday in an hour. Thank you, ministers. Thank you, members of the Riigikogu. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U72	Dear Riigikogu, we will start the 4th working week Wednesday session of the 2nd plenary session. Who has to hand over drafts or inquiries? Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U73	Very honourable President of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Economic Commission, I wish to hand over the draft decision to the Management Board of the Riigikogu "Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund and appointment of a new member." This is because Jevgeni Ossinovski, who has received a mandate from us to work as a member of the Council of the Development Fund, has moved to better and more responsible hunting countries and in this connection he can no longer be a representative of the Riigikogu in the Council of the Development Fund. The Economic Commission proposes to recall Mr Ossinovski as a member of the Council of the Development Fund and to appoint Urve Palo as a new member of the Council. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U74	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to give a draft widow's pension law to the Riigikogu on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group. Its contents are as follows: Section 5 of the State Pension Insurance Act establishes five pension categories. We offer to add a sixth, which would be a widow's pension. Women in Estonia live on average five years longer than men. Statistics say that the average life expectancy is 80 for women and 75 for men. This means that for the most part, an older woman is left alone at the end of her life and has to cope with one pension. Of course, a woman may die sooner. But in life, it's still the case that one husband focuses on work and earning money, the other more deals with home, with children, and so on. The consequence is that one has a slightly higher pension, the other a little smaller, but when one leaves life, it is often the person who earns less for objective reasons and whose pension is lower. We offer such a solution that a spouse who is left alone would have the opportunity to start receiving the pension of the deceased spouse if it is higher than his or her pension. I will also say that we are open for dialogue. There are many questionable moments here, but we are willing to discuss them with everyone who is interested in the matter here in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U76	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U77	Good Chairman! Good ambassadors! Members of the Free Party Group will submit an inquiry to the Minister of Finance regarding the reform of the RMK. The Estonian forest is certainly one of the greatest values in our country. When we travel around Estonia, we often see that RMK could handle the resources in its own administration more effectively. I will, for example, bring the Kekkos track of Kääriku sports base in my home country. The maze is tight, it's a little embarrassing. Here and there, RMK's tags appear. So there are problems. But can they be solved by converting RMK into a company whose sole purpose seems to be to raise additional money for the state budget? It has become clear that the current tax system will not keep the country up for long, life-long. Rather, we need changes relating to the acquisition of direct revenues rather than the creation of indirect sources of revenue. We would like to know from the Minister of Finance what more precise plans are with RMK and what changes could result from them. The Constitution states that natural resources and resources are our common wealth. We want to know whether the state is deliberately trying to create conditions to limit the opportunities for all of us to share in this wealth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U78	Two drafts and one inquiry have been adopted, and we will deal with them as required by the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 78 members of the Riigikogu are present, 23 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U79	The first item on our agenda today is the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Central Party Party to the Government of the Republic 47. Perhaps not everyone remembers exactly how such a bill is being dealt with, it is a bit specific. Following a presentation by the author, questions may be asked, as well as after a presentation by the representative of the commission. A member of the Riigikogu can ask each of the rapporteurs one oral question. Then the negotiations, the examination of the amendments and the final vote will follow. So we are going to have a final vote at one reading. The rapporteur on behalf of the initiators of the bill is Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U80	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Let me remind you of a subject that is familiar to many of you who are already here in several configurations. But maybe we could introduce it to the newer members. The 47th draft is a subject which was also dealt with very thoroughly in the previous Riigikogu. In fact, the participation of young people in students has been very high year after year; young people are interested in gaining student-friendly work experience. At the same time, hundreds of young people stay on the waiting list each year or have to find ways to gain work experience outside the student group. In advance, I say that the draft decision format here in the Riigikogu was chosen because the proposal to exempt students from social tax in the previous Riigikogu was so approved by the Government of the Republic that he decided to say in his opinion that he was dealing with it himself. The Government of the Republic is a consistent institution, although its composition has slightly changed. Maybe there's somewhere to be dealt with this social exemption and the student-friendly issue, but it's not exactly who's doing it. We have decided to remind the Government of the Republic of Estonia of this enterprise. Let me say a few words about the substance of the bill. In fact, the student chess is a youth project that speaks to a wide range of generations in society. It speaks to generations who remember their experience of student chess, and it also speaks to young people today. This has become very popular among our young people precisely because, in addition to gaining work experience, there is consistent guidance. Work goes on systemically, young people can always ask for help and advice. Of course, an experienced sense of team and exciting joint activities are also very important to young people. In recent years, thanks to electronic communications, the filling stations have been completed within a few hours, and it took only an hour and a half last year. Waiting lists will be filled in, like I said, in minutes. I would like to thank the previous Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Lauri Luike, who organised a wide-ranging debate in the committee on how to expand young people's opportunities for work experience. Employers, representatives of different ministries and, most importantly, young people themselves were present. They pointed out different problem areas and suggested what could be changed in law and in the regulations of the Ministry of Social Affairs and other ministries so that young people could be recruited. Of course, it is in all our interests to protect children's rights. We are very good at reminding employers of what obligations they will be subject to when they employ minors. At the same time, employers pointed out that rather often absurd situations can arise where it is easier in practice not to hire a young person than to go through the entire required cadula. Consequently, in the previous round of discussions, the initiators also considered that one way to encourage young people's work was social tax exemption. This was also pointed out by employers. Of course, the reason is understandable: all young people under the age of 18 are already covered by health insurance by the state. I repeat, the social tax exemption also seems to be a strong incentive for employers. Now a little bit of numbers. I'm sure you've all looked at the explanatory statement, it's kind of concise. How many Chevrons have we had? Last year, they were working in 3386 cities and 922 cities during the summer holidays. The average salary was 2.34 euros per hour. The average monthly wage in the city was 92 euros and outside the city, in rural areas, a few euros higher. A total of EUR 316000 was paid to young people according to statistics. Wages have been small, but they have gone a few euros above the exemption limit, so we are talking about gross wages. When taxes were deducted, young people received a total of EUR 310,000. So EUR 6000 was also paid for income tax. On average, if all these figures are summarised, I am sorry that I am talking about the average, but this is indeed quite variable, but the total amount of social tax paid was just under EUR 150000. So these are the numbers. How does anyone want to reason now? Indeed, about EUR 150000 would not be collected in the state budget. On the other hand, the state should be interested in giving some additional motivation to employers who allow young people to gain work experience. The reason is understandable. We all want our young people to have different work experience and thus get real work, so they have one choice or another. It is also no secret that in careers discussions and career counseling, those young people who have received little work experience are much more seriously taken, because they know what they want and what they certainly do not want to do in their future working life. That's what I got, and I'd be happy to answer the questions if there are any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U81	I'd love to ask Aivar Sõerd first.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I have this question: if the government has promised to address this issue seriously, intensively and comprehensively, please tell us who this minister is in the government, who needs to deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U83	Good questioner! You see, we do not have this practice in several formations of the Riigikogu that if a draft opposition is presented, the lawyers will come up with the constructions and explanations by which it will be rejected. And from time to time, maybe there's something in the opinions that isn't taken seriously. So I cannot tell you how serious the debate in the previous term can be, which ended with the confirmation that we are very supportive of this idea and that the subject of student chess must be dealt with further, but the government itself will do so. However, more seriously, this proposal came from both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance. It was confirmed that the matter would be analysed and that the results of this analysis would lead to the next steps. I believe we can have a mid-term review here today. It is possible that Minister of Finance Sven Sester and Minister of Education Jürgen Ligi will discuss and analyse what options are available. Perhaps the Minister for Social Affairs will also say his position; we have two of them as a whole now, and they can also analyse this issue. But the idea of giving young people the opportunity to expand their work experience is certainly no stranger to the current government either.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U84	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! First of all, it is a grateful initiative to provide and assist young people of this age with the work of the summer. I found out about the report in the explanatory note that there is no record of how many children we have had in the student chess. It has also become apparent that there are waiting lists. If such a system were to start, there would certainly be even more people who wanted to work. But is there any such data as the number of young people working in the summer? After all, they are also working outside the student chess. Do we have any figures on this? How many people would like to work, but because of the lack of opportunities, can't do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U86	Thank you. As referred to in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the initiative to present the draft came from the Student Foundation. In developing it, our main sources were SA Student-Scaling, led by Ott Field. According to their data, about one third of the applicants have been engaged in student chess; the rest have found their own jobs. I have to admit at the moment that, indeed, I could have asked for extracts from Statistics Estonia. But the occupancy of our young people is generally low. And the statistics show, and this is what the students were complaining about, that it is very sad, but especially when it comes to work outside the centers, the temptation to pay wages in cash is very high. Those paychecks are low. In particular, employers who have seasonal work in the agricultural sector, as well as employers who provide jobs in the greening and cleaning services, do not want to get into the labour inspectorate's interest. It's easier for them to pay in cash. The deepest point in launching this draft is that as many young people as possible can work on the basis of contracts rather than on a black basis, and that all this can be controlled.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U87	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U88	Thank you, manager. Good colleague Mailis! The main argument of the opponents is that social tax is not collected on the salaries of young people. Let me give you an example. If the child doesn't go to work in the chess and sits at home on a computer, he won't get social tax either. If he goes to work and only gets paid and the employer doesn't pay social tax, what difference does it make? However, the difference is that the child acquires work habits, the entrepreneurs have additional interest and motivation, and they get paid work cheaper. What's all this opposition for? Why isn't it done? In either case, the child will not pay social tax, sit at home on a computer, or work. Either way, the country doesn't get richer. I don't think it's ethical to earn from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U89	Thank you. If we are to adopt an ageing Europe today, we are really thinking about how young people can work, for example, on the possibilities of supported traineeships and on the provision of school holidays for young people. In the Committee on Finance, we have heard that there are some countries where the pension is not paid or something like that. Attempts are made to find additional bonuses for employers why they should prefer young people who generally do not have work experience and who do not have an education by then. According to our laws, employing a young person is also a little uncomfortable because they are subject to restrictions on the difficulties to be raised, the number of hours worked and the daily standards. Thus, in the eyes of the employer, a young person or child is not the most attractive workforce. One might ask if there is no social tax in Estonia for this only possible bonus. There are probably better opportunities, and employers may be able to say them. But the employers also came up with this idea the last time we discussed it in the Riigikogu Committee on Culture. Their logic was simple: young people do not lose their social security contributions, but the state generally wins because it gives young people a better chance of getting their first job experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U90	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U91	Thank you! Good waitress! I know how hard it is to get young people to work in the summer. In the previous composition, Liisa Pakosta and I worked on this too. I have a question about this draft decision as to why you are referring only to young people working in a student capacity. In fact, a lot of people work part-time alongside the university, and they too are covered by social tax. Isn't that a little discriminatory with regard to areas where there are no students?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U92	Good questioner! The Committee on Monetary Affairs also asked the same question. Firstly, we did not dare to think so ambitiously in the previous Riigikogu that all young people working at a certain age would be exempt from this tax. In the case of a student, as I said, the initiative came from them. They act as a foundation and constantly go to employers looking for jobs. It has come from this feedback, they have dared to generalise what employers' concerns are. As you rightly pointed out, there were significantly more contributors in the previous composition than only the chairman of the Committee on Culture, there were more people who thought along and tried to find solutions. You were among them. But we didn't get very far. Employers made a number of proposals that could be additional bonuses for them, and not just to create jobs for young people during the summer period. However, we did not find a good common solution. Yes, the question is whether to extend this measure to all young people. How do we proceed? The purpose of this draft decision was to remind the government of this issue again. Perhaps, at the end of today's debate, we will also find that the issue is necessary, and we will continue to deal with it. We have a large number of groups of friends and support groups in Parliament. Perhaps we can put together a group here to look for solutions and perhaps, in cooperation with some ministries, to draw up a relevant draft law. That, too, is the point of our draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U93	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question relates to the previous question. I would like to say that any effort we make to ensure that young people can work during summer holidays and other holidays, or at all during school holidays, is worthwhile and we should look for these opportunities. In this sense, I congratulate the initiators of the draft, as well as the chessmen, who have proposed it. But it is true that many young people have found a way to work on their own, whether it be the picking of strawberries in the summer or the work related to the internship of students in agricultural disciplines. The draft aims to put employers in an unequal position. In my opinion, it would not be right for some employers to have this advantage, for others to not. Do you think that we should treat all employers as equal in order not to conflict with the principle of equal treatment?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U95	Thank you. I fully support this idea. But, of course, we should thoroughly examine whether we are extending it to all young people who are going to work, or whether any additional nuances have to be taken into account. We know that the Labour Inspectorate must have been informed when a minor has come to work, that there are requirements. Is that enough, or do we want some more information? This is certainly a wide range of questions, but I fully agree that if the Ministry of Finance could think about this issue, in which cases any tax exemptions would be possible, it would be a beautiful initiative. The expansion of young people's employment opportunities is very important. As I said, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, an example was given that there are countries where there are exceptions for young people, either in terms of pension contributions or social tax, or in other respects. You don't have to pay all 33%, for example. In any case, something must tell the employer that recruiting young people is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U96	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U97	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Mailis! I'm gonna ask you a question like that. I think an initiative called "Learning" is one of the biggest fangs of all things. The kids are off the street, the summer is furnished, and everything is like order and duty. What's the price? What amount does the Committee on Monetary Affairs not want to plan the state budget to make thousands of students and entrepreneurs happy in the summer?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U98	Thank you. Good questioner! I'm sure you can't say no one wants to do that. Everyone together thinks this is the right initiative. The Committee on Monetary Affairs also said that we would send the draft to the Chamber. This is not a bill, it is a draft decision that we will remember the subject and say to the government that you remember, we were talking about it. There's a new setup now, but let's get on with it! The second point is that there is nothing to plan for the state budget today. Our proposal is a social tax exemption. This amount can be roughly calculated in the case of a student chess. As I said, the size is EUR 150000. However, if all young people at work are to be included, these statistics, together with the Ministry, must be thoroughly analysed and, on the basis of this, considered whether it is necessary to compensate the health insurance fund and, if so, to what extent and what. And, for example, in the case of a pension share, is there any reasonable expectation of how much a young person collects a pension share during that time? So there's a lot of nuances. It may be possible to clarify some other legislation and to provide, for example, that the pension fund is to be collected only from the age of 18 or 16, before the employer has to pay it. In some countries this is the case. There are, of course, other solutions that do not entail a direct cost to the state budget. Employers have made their proposals repeatedly, and many of them are not related to state budget expenditure. Some of the proposals are also simply a revision of certain regulations to amend the requirements of the Labour Inspectorate. Some feel that this is perhaps a very familiar and located topic, but the youth leaders of Ida-Viru County pointed out the specific nature of their region. It is quite difficult for the Labour Inspectorate or, let's say, for young people in Ida-Virumaa to find work in certain areas, following our own rules, because there are several sectors where young people cannot be used. A very large part of the companies there are involved in the chemical industry or other sectors and it is understandable that we protect the lives and health of young people. But we may have made it too easy to state that these areas are forbidden for young people. In short, there are a number of nuances and problems that are specific to Ida-Virumaa, but we have not come much further from this very thorough debate. Steps to analyze and amend one or the other regulation, we haven't stepped in.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U99	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U100	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I also think that this is a very grateful raise. Just because we're talking about it here today, hopefully will make some officials move more. I have two questions. One is the number of young people who work outside of the school. That's what you asked and studied before Terje and Helir. The second question concerns what you referred to in your previous reply, that it is probably not the only problem we are currently discussing and that our previous formations have done quite a lot to make it difficult for young people to work and not very attractive for employers. You said that a little bit, but do you know more specifically what the other obstacles we should be dealing with?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U101	Thank you. In answer to the second question, I can refer to this set of problems that we addressed during the spring debate, where quite a number of of of us took part. This multi-party debate addressed the difficulties of implementing young people's working life. Unfortunately, for a very long time, the problems of traineeships have persisted, in practice, how young people practice, what their real chances are, how traineeships are remunerated, as we know, are actually unremunerated. It's the whole theme circle. Finally, the debate reached regional specificities, just mentioned in the examples of Ida-Virumaa and South-East Estonia. In the case of Ida-Viru County, it was pointed out, as I have already said, that we have laid down bans that are too general. In South-East Estonia, however, there is a great temptation and commitment to the informal use of labour in the agricultural sector. This, of course, is what the tax administration is dealing with. Our problem is that the official recruitment of a young person has not been sufficiently motivated. However, perhaps a lot has changed since last spring, at least that is what we hope. But when we come to the school system, of course, we all want to erase compulsory social work classes from our memory. It's an obsolescence we didn't want to bring back to the school system. At the same time, we have come to the point that very many young people are not exposed to work at all. The school system could also consider how to expand the work experience of students. This has also been discussed quite a lot, but of course the regions are different from these opportunities. The country has more of these opportunities, unfortunately in the city much less. You ask how many young people work. Once again, I am sorry that I did not take the latest data out of the statistics today, but I can refer to the figures that have been put forward in our debate. Those involved said that there were around 10,000 young people in the period outside school. I'm talking about schoolchildren. Of course, this circle is wider if we take any age group up to 18. This includes young people who have already graduated from school and who may have some time between two periods of study where they did not choose to study further. Of course, there are young people of this age who simply go to work. So the numbers are different. As far as employers are concerned, neither the Student Managers of the SA could guarantee that there would be a great deal more employers after any steps we took. But there is reason to hope that attitudes can change. There is an urgent need for a single step to ensure that the country is interested in recruiting young people. It was a key message from the student-creating leaders.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U102	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U103	Mr President! Dear waitress, I have a question that sounded in this hall today. I am thinking precisely that your proposal could certainly be implemented and social tax incentives should also be granted to other groups of young people. But I'm going to ask you a very specific question about the students. Students don't go to chess anymore, but basically, they're a senior when they study at the university. In essence, however, this social tax, which is paid for them at work, does not affect their future very much. What do you think, maybe free the students for the summer when they're at work somewhere, from paying social tax? This would certainly have a positive impact on employment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U104	Good questioner! In this case, it must also be strictly regulated by some non-study period. However, since our universities also have cycle training, this naturally raises certain questions. One thing is that we cannot make social tax incentives for students in general because our message to young people has been to study full-time, then you will receive student support. And once you've completed your studies and a little internship, you'll be able to enter the labour market. Simultaneous work and learning, which we have had for years, has become undesirable in the course of higher education reform in recent years. This is the first nuance to consider. Secondly, quite a lot has been debated about whether the student's work experience, which they receive in practice or otherwise in their field of study, should be assessed with some advantage. For example, if a young person works in a university lab in his specialty and maybe gets a very small salary there, then he could have some other advantages. He'd probably make more money at the pub tonight, but it should be good for him to get work experience in his specialty. In conclusion, this is an issue that we could certainly look at further. There are different possibilities. We could discuss social tax from the point of view that 33% consists of several parts; there is a pension share and a share of the health insurance fund. These are the problems we need to talk about. Whether to exempt all student work from social tax up to a certain age, or only when it comes to professional work, today I do not dare to tell you which is better. But rather, in the debate on higher education, the view remains that we prefer young people who work at very low pressure as a student, but in their own field. Except for school holidays, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U105	Honourable Riigikogu! The procedure for dealing with a draft decision containing a proposal to the Government of the Republic is somewhat special and is linked to the fact that it will only be discussed in plenary at one session. Immediately after the debate, there will be a final vote. A member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask a question to both rapporteurs, so that the initiator one and the representative of the committee one. I'm sorry, Terje Trei and Tarmo Tamm, that's all you can ask right now. No more questions for the originator. The rapporteur for the Commission is Mr Aivar Sõerd, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U106	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance of the Riigikogu discussed 47 draft decisions at its meeting on 29 September. As a reminder, no proposals were received by the deadline set by the Riigikogu's Management Board, which was 16 June at 5.15 p.m. I will now give an overview of the progress of the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The draft was presented by the representative of the initiator, Mailis Reps, Vice-Chairman of the Centre Party Group, and Eero Kiipli, Student Malev of the SA. I realized he wasn't a student anymore, but he's worked there for a long time. Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, also participated in the discussion. I will give an overview of the questions raised by the Members of the Commission, the progress of the debate and the proposals and decisions made by the Commission. First of all, the question was how many students, children, or young people are affected by this bill. That sounded in this hall before. As has been said, 3386 students participated in the so-called urban chess, an extra-urban 922. This figure could increase by two thirds if the amendment requested by this Decision were to materialise. The topic of the debate was also the salaries of the Chevrons and the tax received from them. I'm not gonna go over the bill. The founder's representative has already read them. There was a question as to why the purpose of this draft is to encourage only students to work during the summer, not for all young people. In this context, the issue of equal treatment was raised. The initiator of the draft act explained that the idea of a tax credit had its origin in the chess and therefore the draft deal primarily with the Chevrons. He also stressed that chess was a form of work where work was supervised and organised. There is a supporting structure in the form of group leaders, as well as a chess job usually takes place during periods outside school. The cross-cutting topic in the session was that the recruitment of children is rather difficult and discourages employers so that they do not want to hire young people. In general, however, the Commission's position was that it is very important for young people to have experience of working and work habits. There was a question of registration. The working young person is registered in the employee register in the same way as the adult worker. One opinion related to the part of the social tax pension that is personalised and affects the pension as to whether it is right to opt out. There was also a view that, in the case of perhaps up to 16-year-olds, social tax should be waived at all. For example, practice in other countries was also brought. The Commission was interested in the type of work being offered to young people, and in the context of overall employment, the idea was that the work offered to young people could generally be done by adults. The initiator's representative stated that maybe in general time should be taken off and not hastened to refer the draft to plenary so that the issues raised by the Commission could be dealt with further. Here, unfortunately, we are limited by the Riigikogu's rules of procedure, according to which the first reading of the draft must take place within seven working weeks of the adoption of the draft by the Riigikogu. The Commission took the following decisions by consensus: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 13 October (thereby it shifted to today); secondly, to appoint a rapporteur here and thirdly, to propose a final vote on the draft. I, here, thank you and am ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U107	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U108	Thank you, manager. Dear colleague Aivar! Am I right to understand that the state's cost of what was proposed in this bill does not come with it? Because even if you don't pay social security, the cost doesn't count. There may be hypothetical income: if your salary exceeds 170 euros, you will have to pay income tax to the state budget. But there's one thing you must have forgotten. It was said in the Commission that there really is a need to harmonise and not just to talk about the Chevrons. It was also said that perhaps the period during which this non-taxation could be used could be limited to 50 days a year, for example. That's the subject that went through. Will you confirm that the state budget will not be costed with this change?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U109	Yes, I can say that the cost to the state budget of enforcing this decision is relatively low compared to the total budget and the share of this social tax in social tax receipts. On the basis of the service of young people working in chess, this would amount to EUR 100000. At the total budget volume, this is not a large amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U110	Thank you, Aivar Sõerd! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Representatives of the political groups and committees can take the floor during the negotiations. There's no call. No amendments were tabled, so the final vote on the decision will be taken. Honourable Riigikogu, since the adoption of a draft decision containing a proposal for the Government of the Republic requires a majority of the composition, we will do a verification of our presence. 54 members of the Riigikogu are present, 47 are missing. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic, submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party 47. Please take a stand and vote. There are 31 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the decision, no respondents and no abstentions. The decision will not be taken. I said no decision. Did everybody hear that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U111	The second reading of the draft law amending the Customs Act initiated by the Government of the Republic follows. The rapporteur for the Economic Commission is Maris Lauri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Since the first reading of the draft law amending the Customs Act took place four months ago, the first is a small reminder of the changes that are being made. There are four groups. The first concerns the organisation of the regulation of the uniforms and distinguishing marks of a customs official, which will be transferred from government level to the Minister of Finance and the Director-General of the Tax and Customs Board. The second group of amendments allows natural persons to declare goods of a non-commercial nature in a simplified manner, with a so-called travel declaration, regardless of the value or weight of the goods. Third, in accordance with European Union law, customs authorities are granted the right to establish, in the case of small consignments, whether or not an infringement of intellectual property is involved. If there is a dispute, it can also be resolved by customs authorities. Fourthly, the authorisation and withdrawal procedures for TIR carnets are regulated. To sum up, these are changes that make administrative processes easier. The following is an overview of what happened after the first reading. No amendments were received within the deadline set. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft at its meeting on 28 September, where there were two amendments. Firstly, the proposal of the Ministry of Finance aimed at clarifying the wording. This proposal was adopted by consensus in the Commission. The second amendment was to enter into force on 1 December instead of 1 November so that, after the final vote of the Act, the President of the Republic would have enough time to announce the Act and publish the Act to the Official Journal of the State. The amendment was adopted by four votes in favour. Procedural proposals were adopted by consensus. In particular, first, to put the draft 22 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 14 October and second, to propose that the second reading of the draft be stopped. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U113	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U114	Good manager! Good waitress! Were there no more than four members in the committee meeting ♪ only four votes in favour, or were the other members of the committee not voting?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U115	The Commission had seven members and three did not vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U116	No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Two proposals have been put forward to amend bill 22, both of which are from the Committee on Economic Affairs. Amendment 1, fully taken into account. Amendment 2, which is also fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 22. Second reading of Bill 22 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U117	Our next item is the second reading of Bill 83 amending the Aviation Act and the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act. The rapporteur for the Commission is Jaanus Marrand, member of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U118	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Aviation Act and the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 14 September this year. The first reading of the draft act in Riigikogu's plenary session took place on 30 September and the first reading was closed. Before the first reading, the draft was organized in a technical and linguistic manner and the draft was submitted to the Riigikogu plenary session as amended for the first reading. The draft clarifies the provisions of the Aviation Act and also allows guests invited by the President of the Republic to be exempted from security screening in order to ensure that the President of the Republic acts without restriction in the field of foreign communication. The draft provides the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the competence to decide to exempt a guest on official visit to the Republic of Estonia from security screening at the request of a member of the Government of the Republic or of the Secretary of State. Under current law, this is done by order of the Prime Minister. On 1 November of this year, the provision of the Aviation Act, which requires that it must be ensured that aeronautical radio communications are conducted in English, shall enter into force. The purpose of the draft is to amend this provision and, as a general rule, to introduce a situation where radio communication takes place in both Estonian and English, but due to the nature of aviation activities in the Estonian airspace, 95 feet above the flight level, or 9500 feet above the flight level, is used only in English, except in adjacent and convergence areas located in the Tallinn flight information area. The urgency of the procedure for dealing with the draft is due to the desire to enforce the proposed amendment before and including 1 November. The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Aviation Act at its meeting on 28 September, where all procedural decisions were taken. No amendments were received from Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees by the deadline for submitting amendments, which was at 12 noon on 6 October. The commission adopted a decision to send a draft law amending the Aviation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act to the Riigikogu for a second reading by 14 October, to propose that the second reading be stopped and, if the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading as early as tomorrow, 15 October and to put the draft to the final vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U119	Questions for the waitress. Please, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U120	Honourable waitress! Only recently, perhaps at the end of the previous Riigikogu, we dealt with the aviation law. Then the language provision was modified and English had to be used in the lower airspace. Can you explain the reasons for re-programming this bill? Why are we making the lower air space Estonian again? And have you already been commended as the lead manager of the bill that this is an extremely positive initiative and it is very nice that we have a bilingual air space?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U121	I think the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu, as well as the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, can be commended for this. As I understand it, it is basically a need to protect Estonian national aviation terminology and use its vocabulary vividly. As a result, this discussion in society developed and reached the ears of the people who decided to initiate a further amendment of the law by the Government of the Republic. We in the Commission also concluded that this would help to preserve the living air vocabulary in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U122	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U123	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You were talking about a height of 9500 feet. Can you tell me how many meters it is?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U124	The leg is known to be such a dimension taken from nature and depends, of course, on the length of a man's or a woman's leg. You can take it one way or the other. But in itself it is about 3,500 meters, or 3.5 kilometers, millimeters, and centimeters, you can recreate yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U125	No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments were tabled. The second reading of Bill 83 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U126	Now begins the first reading of the draft law amending the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The initiator's waitress is Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U127	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I present to you the draft law amending the Water Act. The Water Act is one such legislation, which the Riigikogu has certainly dealt with more than 50 times today, but for various reasons it will come before you again and again. This time it is due to changes concerning the issue of agricultural pollution. In a nutshell, the requirements for limiting water pollution from agricultural sources are updated. In particular, the conditions under which manure is stored and the period of application of the fertiliser shall be specified. Our concern is that nitrogen compounds are moving from the territory of Estonia at an ever-increasing rate in the aquatic environment. Similarly, the concentration of groundwater nitrate in the Pandivere and Adavere areas has increased so that water in some wells has become unfit for drinking. Scientists estimate that 60% to 80% of nitrogen and 30% of phosphorus are released into water because of agricultural activity. The European Commission has also stressed that the regulations on fertiliser use and manure storage in Estonia do not ensure adequate protection of the aquatic environment, which is why infringement proceedings have been launched against us. It is therefore clear that the existing requirements are not sufficient to limit the pollution occurring. We have therefore developed some changes. First, the conditions for the storage of manure are specified, both in the manure storage and in the field. According to the current requirement, the manure storage facility must be located in a holding house where more than 10 livestock units of animals are kept (milk cow corresponding to one livestock unit, coefficients for other animals being lower). From 1 January 2023, the manure storage facility shall be located in an animal house where at least five livestock units of animals are kept. A long transitional period will allow farmers to make the necessary investments. If there are fewer than ten livestock units (less than five from 2023), manure storage shall not be mandatory, but also in this case pollution of the environment shall be avoided and, in the case of temporary storage of manure at the table before spreading to the field, simplified water protection requirements shall be met, i.e. a leak-proof base under manure and must be protected from rain. When keeping manure in the field, care must be taken to ensure that the manure sauna is kept in the field for as short a period as possible before spreading and that no liquid leaks into the environment. Therefore, depending on the dry matter content of manure, the maximum allowed time for keeping manure in the aurnament is set. Secondly, the restriction in the nitrate sensitive area that manure can produce 170 kg of nitrogen as an average of land cultivated with mineral fertilisers is repealed. Instead, the nitrate-sensitive area shall be subject to the same nitrogen regime as the rest of the territory of Estonia, according to which manure is permitted to provide up to 170 kilograms of nitrogen per hectare per year of cultivated land, including nitrogen contained in manure on land when grazing animals. This means that fertilisers are allowed to give the crop an annual amount of nitrogen per hectare of land cultivated, as much as it would need to grow. The exact quantities will be established by a decree of the Government of the Republic. Cultural fertilisation should, on the one hand, contribute to the growth of yield, but also reduce the release of surplus nutrients into the aquatic environment. Thirdly, the application of liquid manure and mineral nitrogen fertilisers will be banned from 1 December as early as 15 October. The application of fertilisers and, in particular, liquid manure at unfavourable times is a major source of risk as a large part of the nutrients are transferred to surface water and groundwater. Depending on the weather, 70-80% of the nitrogen applied in the autumn will cause pollution during the winter months and early spring, especially in the case of liquid manure, due to the low nitrogen intensity. Here too, a long transitional period has been granted, with a new withdrawal period starting on 1 January 2023. Fourthly, manure must be moved to the soil in a field without growing crops as soon as possible, in place of the previous 48 hours, until 24 hours after the end of application, in order to prevent nitrogen compounds from being volatile and from being transferred to surface water. This change is certainly important for those who live near the fields and who cannot open windows in the autumn or spring. The study has shown that one third and more nitrogen compounds in manure will be airborne within 4 to 5 hours after spreading, and ultimately the farmer will lose a large part of the fertiliser and money. The last but not insignificant change relates to the grazing of animals in the protection zone of water bodies. The draft allows animals to be grazing anywhere on the coast, in accordance with the conditions laid down by the Environmental Board. Under the current rules, animals are allowed to be grazing in semi-natural and natural areas of the protection zone of water bodies under the Nature Conservation Act, where provided for in the conservation management plan. Since reeds are widespread in the coastal regions of Estonia and coastal areas are at risk of growing up, this regulation has rather a positive effect, as the number of animals is regulated depending on the specific circumstances and therefore the impact is not significant. Thus, at first sight, it may seem that the rules on fertilisation and restrictions on fertiliser application and manure storage in the field limit agricultural activity. In fact, these changes, in addition to helping to meet the water protection objectives, will benefit the farmer in the long term, in particular, as a result of a more timely and rational use of manure and mineral fertilisers. Thank you! Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U128	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. My colleague Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. The Water Act Amendment Act deals with a subject directly related to the improvement of the status of the Baltic Sea. Nitrogen and phosphorus are known to be linked to eutrophication, i.e. the proliferation of vegetation and algae in the Baltic Sea. To what extent does this legislative amendment provide assurance that these deadlines for the HELCOM Baltic Sea Action Plan have been respected for nitrogen and phosphorus reaching the sea? It may be a very specific question, but it would still be interesting to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U130	Thanks! A specific question, but the answer to it is such a general one. Without this law, the situation would continue to be bad. If we take even the watercourses that Estonia has 645, the monitoring data show that the situation in 26 of them is completely low, bad or very bad because of the high nitrogen content. One thing is the adoption of the law, but the other is the implementation of these measures. If we do this, I think we can improve our situation in the Baltic Sea, both in terms of nitrogen and phosphorus. You can read chicks in quite a while. As I have already mentioned, a number of provisions will enter into force from 2023, so it will take time. But it is not supposed to be all our water protection policy that concerns the Baltic Sea.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U131	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have been approached by a number of organic producers who have read out of this law that they can no longer herd their animals in the winter. Is that so, or have they misunderstood?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U133	Thanks! Animals can still be herded by organic producers. The cattle that spend the year in the wild are not directed to the barn by this amendment to the Water Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U134	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U135	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Does it not seem to you that this law is yet another requirement in the European Union for the determination of banana curvature? Let's look at our own climate and the climate of a Central Europe or a South European country. There may indeed be something in the winter months to reach the rivers and the sea, but there is no danger in Estonia. Is it really good for us to go along with such a thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U136	Thank you. The answer is yes. There's a point.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U137	Thank you. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U138	Thank you. Good minister! I have this feeling that action in the agricultural sector is becoming increasingly rare for us, as all kinds of restrictions are being imposed more and more and more, and the economic situation is as it is. Has the government considered measures, such as investment support measures, so that these regulations can also be implemented through construction activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U139	Thanks! This is one of the reasons why manure storage and manure application are subject to a transitional period until 1 January 2023. During this period, it is possible to apply for investment support.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U140	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U141	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. The law says that organic fertilisers are allowed to produce 170 kilograms of nitrogen per hectare. Some herbaceous crops, however, require more nitrogen. How are they treated?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U142	Thanks! Do you know, or do you think it is? That's my rhetorical question. I think that, in most cases, this limit can be handled nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U143	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U144	Thank you. Good minister! Have you analysed the impact of these changes on organic farmers? I mean, scream. I myself grew up on a farm with a herd of dairy cows. To do so, we built a pond so that the animals could drink from it, and many frog species could develop there. It's kind of a nice natural combination that should still exist together. I see no reason why regulations are so harshly imposed on other bodies of water.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U145	Thanks! If we take the seashore, then there's regulation, how to say, softens, you could say that. If it was so far semi-natural or natural areas provided for in the management plan, then now, in coordination with the Environmental Board, it can also be grazing elsewhere on the shores of the sea. As far as inland waterways are concerned, here we have agreed with the parties involved that a study will be carried out. One question is the entry of nitrogen and phosphorus in the watercourse, but the other is the possible erosion of the banks. Once we have this knowledge, we will come again, if necessary, by water law to Parliament, so that there is also a clear code of conduct on animal grazing along inland waters.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U146	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U147	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! How were these dates set: October 15 and March 21? Are our neighbouring countries the same or different dates? Were the dates included in the discussions, I don't know, synoptics or were Igor Mang asked?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U148	Thanks for the question! March 20th, my husband's birthday, is the beginning of logical spring work. But in fact, this date is later in the current regulation. This has been brought forward because the time of the field work is now beginning earlier, the weather is warmer. As far as autumn is concerned, October 15, we have not taken the so-called ceiling, and this is not Igor Mang's offer, but it is the understanding of the people involved in agrometeorology. It's also said in the explanatory memorandum that it's a matter of the average temperature of the day, of when it could be essentially less than 5 plus degrees. If you look at the map, even in Saaremaa, where otherwise the weather is milder, the temperature in the second half of October is less than 5 plus degrees. But this draft also allows a small exception: if it is indeed a soft autumn, the Environmental Board may extend the period of application of liquid fertiliser by two weeks. [[???Vahelehüüe: 'Aga naaberriikides?'???]] Neighbouring countries have more or less the same regulation. I have a style example here from Latvia, where these dates are October 20th and March 15th. For example, let us call it Finland, another neighbour. There's a ban on spreading organic fertilisers from November to the end of March. If we look geographically at where one country or another is in our relationship, then small differences are, at the same time, logical.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U149	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U150	Thank you! Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I will continue in the footsteps of the agricultural expert Siret Eagle question. He asked about the nitrogen standard, which is 170 kilograms per hectare. I would like to clarify whether this applies to all the land available to the farmer as an average standard or to some specific field. The average may be one number, but for a particular culture, you can and could, at least so far, have, put more fertilizer than that 170 kilograms.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U151	Thanks! Good point for clarification. It is still a matter of specific farmland, not of all the land owned by the farmer. If we take an arbitrary example of Adamere or Pandivere's nitrate sensitive area, the conditions are broadly similar, but in some areas the situation has significantly deteriorated and in some areas it has gotten a little better. So you have to look at it more specifically.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U152	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U153	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I got the question mark blown up by this liquid fertiliser. What is this and what percentage by volume or volume are these things put in there, corresponding ions or acid residues, or how is it divided? What's this liquid fertiliser, is it a sib or a virt, or is it some other thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U154	Thanks! It's nice to see a member of the Riigikogu from the chemist. If you say "simplified," so everyone will understand, right, then indeed, the mantle you have mentioned will be included in it, including the slurry. The main criterion is certainly low dry matter content.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U155	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U156	Thank you! The second point to be clarified is from the same line as my previous question. So far, the application rate of nitrogen has been the average for all land in use, which actually allows it to be placed on certain crops as much as it is biologically necessary, with a slight increase in the standard. I also know that the agricultural organisations are quite inclined to continue as it has been so far. If one such fine-minded amendment comes, what could be the Minister's view that fertiliser use could continue on the same basis as it has been so far, as an average of the entire land occupied by the farmer? As we know, there are quite a few plots of land that we don't get much fertilizer at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U157	Thanks! The Minister for the Environment can only rely on the fact that he stands for the environment and the quality of groundwater. If the proposal works against it, I can't go along with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U158	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U159	Good manager! Good minister! It's a simple question. Do you think this law is good for today's farmer or bad? We know that a farmer has very complicated times, so and so, they're shutting down the barns. The next decision is that the rest of the countries around can put a little more fertilizer on the crop field and potato land, but we can't put anything else?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U160	Thanks! Ladies and gentlemen, who have been elected from Jõgevamaa, where at least a certain number of people have voted for you! This is a legislative amendment which, on the one hand, will help your voters to have the best groundwater available and, on the other hand, farmers who are working in this region and receiving harvest will certainly survive. After all, it is very simple: it makes no sense for a farmer to throw money into the wind and let nitrogen and phosphorus simply flow into the river, if it could improve plant growth and thus profit the farmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U161	Thank you. Minister, there are no further questions for you. Now I would like to ask Mr Mälberg, member of the Environment Committee on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U162	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Environment Committee discussed the draft law amending the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic at its meeting on 28 September. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, Chief Specialist of the Water Department of the Ministry of the Environment Enn Liive and Head of the Office of the Agricultural Environment of the Ministry of Rural Affairs Katrin Rannik were presenting the draft. I'm not going to go over the contents of the bill again. In short, the aim is to update the provisions of the Water Act on agriculture on fertiliser use in such a way as to ensure better protection of our water. In addition, the purpose of the draft 82 is to resolve the problems underlying the infringement procedure of the European Commission. The procedure for preparing the draft was thorough and involved a good number of organisations. Most of all, this bill has fueled passion among farmers. But over a long period of preparation, many issues have already been resolved. It can now be said that there are still differences between the dates of application of manure and fertiliser to the field, the nitrogen limits and the grazing of animals on the shores of inland waters. The debate in the Commission also revolved mainly around these issues. Members of the Commission also wondered what these regulations are for our good neighbours and whether, when we adopt the draft as a law, we will not put our farmer in a worse competitive position. Mr Enn Liive replied that our farmer would not get into an unequal situation compared to others, rather the opposite is true in some cases. Since draft 82 regulates in particular the agricultural part of the Water Act, the Committee on the Environment also decided to ask the Committee on Rural Affairs for an opinion and today the Committee on Rural Affairs has forwarded its opinion. It makes no sense to read it all here, but I will read the last paragraph of the report which sums up the position of the Committee on Rural Affairs: 'The Committee on Rural Life supports the completion of the first reading of the draft. At the same time, it was found that, between the first reading and the second reading, the commission should certainly once again discuss the problems raised in the letter of the Estonian Farmers' Confederation, the Estonian Farmers' Confederation and the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce, and seek an even better compromise in order to protect the groundwater and the water environment, but also the competitiveness of Estonian farmers would not be significantly affected. " The Committee on Rural Affairs has also promised to be kept informed about the further processing of the draft. The Committee on the Environment made its decisions by consensus and they sound as follows: propose that the first reading of draft 82 be completed and propose that the deadline for submitting 82 amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 28 October 2015 Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U163	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U164	Thank you, Mr President. It's a purely mathematical question or something. There are two hectares, one has zero nitrogen and the other has 340 kilograms, the land belongs to one host, it is in one piece, etc. Is this 170 kilograms requirement met, or is there some kind of sanctions per hectare of 340 kilograms? I should have asked the minister, of course, but he's so tuned today that as a philologist, I was just afraid to ask him something.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U165	The question is perfectly understandable. The answer is that, in the light of this draft, this requirement is not met, 170 kilograms of nitrogen per hectare.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U166	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm still coming back to the same thing. First of all, of course, it is not quite clear to me why we are talking here about nitrates, not phosphates. There are basically all kinds of other substances, and the Mendeleyev table has been considerably prolonged over the last 50 years. By the way, grass-eating animals also emit quite a lot of methane and hydrocarbons that pollute our atmosphere and cause the greenhouse effect more than the entire economy and cars combined, I am not talking about people right now. But I'll come back to the question of the previous questioner. 170 kilos of one culture requires more, the other less. If one hectare goes perhaps 120 kilograms and the other 200 kilograms, how will it be calculated? It was the middle one before. Will it be punished or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U168	Let it be said that phosphorus is actually spoken of here. The maximum rate of phosphorus per hectare is 25 kilograms. But today, fertilizer and spreading it are so expensive, and our farmers are very clever and smart. No crops can be fertilised either, and the ex-fertility is put exactly as much as it needs to be. I'm sure you know that if you throw nitrogen above normal in the spring, the grass will not grow better, but, on the contrary, it will turn brown. The farmers know that. You don't want to over-fertilise.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U169	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 82 has been completed on the basis of a proposal from the lead committee. I will set the deadline for tabling 82 amendments, including 28 October at 16 a.m. We have gone through the fourth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U170	Let's go to the fifth item on today's agenda. The first reading of the 57th draft law on the amendment of the European Union citizen's law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. The rapporteur is Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U171	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu a proposal to amend the citizens' law of the European Union and other laws related thereto. The aim of the amendments is to bring Estonian legislation into line with a number of directives and framework decisions of the European Union, while the draft has also regulated the structure of the European Union citizen's law by bringing together in one chapter amendments to the transposition of directives at different times and avoiding duplication of similar provisions. I will briefly review the amendments to the draft. First. The concept of family member, namely 'child' and 'parent', is replaced by the definition of relative, respectively 'directly descending relative' and 'directly ascendant relative'. The current definition of a household member is also complemented by a person who has a permanent and factually proven partnership with a citizen of the European Union. Second. The substance of the concept of threat to public policy or national security posed by a citizen of the European Union or a member of his family, based on the principle that the longer a citizen of the European Union has resided in a country, the greater the protection of the fundamental right to free movement. The right of residence of persons with permanent right of residence (person has lived in Estonia for at least five years) may be restricted only in the event of a significant threat to public policy or national security. The right of residence of a minor or a citizen of the European Union who has resided permanently for the last 10 years in a row on the basis of his or her right of residence in Estonia may be restricted only if he or she endangers the security of the state. Three. The penalties imposed on a member of the family of a citizen of the European Union in Estonia for working without a legal basis shall be reduced from 300 daily fine units to 100 daily fine units and the penalties imposed on legal persons for providing employment from 3200 euros to 1100 euros. Four. The European Union citizen's law is complemented by the presence of a new misdemeanours of a citizen of the European Union and a member of his/her family during the period of entry ban in Estonia. It is foreseen that a citizen of the European Union or a member of his or her family who is staying in Estonia during the period of validity of the entry ban imposed on him or her will be fined by a fine of up to 300 fine units or detention. It also obliges the expeller to bear the costs of removal. The amendment is necessary so that persons whose right to free movement is restricted cannot be exempt from a fine. In 2014, 74 citizens of the European Union were expelled from Estonia. Five. A minor of at least 15 years of age shall have the right to conduct proceedings independently under the European Union citizen's law. The problem currently concerns the exchange students, who are citizens of the European Union, who are currently arriving in Estonia and whose activities are related to their right of residence, the parent must travel to Estonia or authorise the parents of the host family to carry out these activities. A similar provision is contained in the Aliens Act, where minors aged 15 or over who are third-country nationals can carry out their residence permit operations independently. Six. The draft law provides for the offence composition of the Aliens Act, according to which a natural or legal person who has submitted false or falsified documents for the purpose of obtaining a legal basis for an alien's stay in Estonia, such as a visa or a residence permit, can be punished by misdemeanour. The misuse of visas has been the main way of irregular migration in Estonia for years. For example, a case was identified last year when 21 persons living in Estonia issued visa invitations containing false information to foreigners. A total of 333 Belarusian citizens who used visas to go to other Member States received visas on the basis of fictitious visa invitations. As the visa applicant is a visa applicant in a third country, so far the illegal activities of those who are invited have not been punished. Seven. The Penal Code is supplemented by helping an alien to stay in Estonia without a legal basis in order to benefit from property. This will be punishable in the future by a financial penalty or one-year imprisonment. In addition, the knowingly placing or leaving an alien in a situation that is life-threatening or could harm his or her health, which is punishable by a financial penalty or one-to-seven-year imprisonment, is an aggravating circumstance in the case of a criminal offence involving the smuggling of an alien across the state border of the Republic of Estonia or a temporary check line. The need for these amendments arises in particular from the European Union Directive and the Framework Decision. I am pleased to support, on behalf of the Government of the Republic, the proposal by the lead committee to conclude the first reading today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U172	Thank you. Minister, there are questions for you. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U173	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Paragraph 1 (24) of the draft law states in § 528 of the Act that a citizen of the European Union and a member of his family shall be given a 30-day voluntary period for leaving the country, from the date of service of the letter of departure. How is it guaranteed that the person who is required to leave will be served in a situation where it cannot be delivered to him?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U174	Thank you. Just as now, when it is necessary to deliver a document to a person, it is the institution that has to do so. The departure decree is usually made by the Police and Border Guard Board, so it is their job to find the person and deliver the departure letter to him. The rule is that if a person is identified as illegal in Estonia, i.e. he or she does not have the basis for his or her stay, he or she will be placed in an expulsion centre in Harku. So he's under control, he's quickly getting a letter of departure, and right there in Harku it's being handed to him.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U175	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Paragraph 526 "Differents of limitation of the right of residence'. The first paragraph states that the right of residence may be restricted only if there is a significant threat to public policy or national security. Who will identify this threat? How will this decision be finalised? Is this done orally? Will someone call someone and say that this, and this is dangerous for the Estonian state, would send them out? Or is there a trace of all this? What is the procedure? Next, the law says it's okay to challenge. That means there should be a trace. Does this person obtain a document on the basis of which lawyers can subsequently decide whether the restriction was fair or not? What about this particular threat to security?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U177	Thank you. Surely this mechanism is exactly the same as a functioning mechanism when it is necessary to assess the threat to national security posed by a person. The Department of Defense usually evaluates such threats. Of course, if any restriction is imposed on a person, this restriction is an administrative decision and can be challenged in the Republic of Estonia by an administrative court. If it is contested, it is, of course, possible to require all the documents on which the decision is based during the administrative court proceedings and to issue them on the basis of the judgment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U178	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U179	Honourable manager! Honourable Minister of the Interior! Pursuant to § 1 (24) of the draft law, the conditions for non-entry are laid down in a situation where entry takes place through the external borders of Estonia outside the Schengen area. Does this mean that, in a situation where war refugees have been admitted in different countries of the European Union and have obtained their right of residence in a particular Member State, they are equally able to relocate to Estonia without restrictions, or is it only about refugees from Russia? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U180	Thank you for your question. The short answer is that if a person comes to a Member State of the European Union and comes from a third country, he or she will only be granted a residence permit for residence in that country, meaning that he or she is not entitled to reside in another Member State of the European Union. If a citizen with a Latvian right of residence is identified in Estonia, we will send him back to Latvia, and if a citizen with an Estonian right of residence is identified in Latvia, the person will be sent back to Estonia. That's the rule.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U181	Thank you. Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U182	Thank you. Dear Minister, This is a necessary legislative amendment and it is also necessary to amend other laws, because time and circumstances are constantly changing around us. Only a few clarifications are needed. My explanation is as follows. Paragraph 1 (3) 'The identity of a citizen of the European Union or of a member of his family shall be established or verified on the basis of an identity document or, failing that, on the basis of other documentary evidence. 'I'm interested in that 'other'. What are the documentary evidence to enable a person to be identified accurately?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U183	Thank you. We use different methods to identify individuals, really. If a person does not have an identity card with him or her, he or she will be interviewed. Often, persons in need of international protection have nothing other than a Red Cross document, which is not an identity document, although it is a document of identity issued by the Red Cross. Similarly, it is possible to ask the authorities of the country mentioned by the person who can confirm whether or not such a person exists. So it could be a certificate issued by another country, a document issued by the Red Cross, or a document issued by another institution or organisation, such as a police document drawn up on the surface of witnesses' statements. There are several documents on the basis of which a person can be identified. In the end, however, this must mean that the person must receive an identity document. If it can be obtained from third countries, further procedural measures can also be carried out on this basis. We're using every available means to establish identity.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U184	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U185	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You said earlier that 74 citizens of the European Union were expelled from Estonia last year. What were the main reasons why they were expelled?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U186	The main reasons usually relate to the fact that a person does not have a basis for staying in Estonia, or he has stayed here longer than the law provides. We are still sending out the citizens of the European Union because they are staying here without a legal basis. We can stay in another European Union country for a certain period of time. If we want to work there, we have to apply for a work permit. The free movement of labour exists, but people need to register. For example, if people have not registered, they have to go back.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U187	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U188	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You have advantages over me and many other people in the hall, because you have received a systematic legal education and maybe a diploma on that. I wonder whether, in the terms 'citizen of the Republic of Estonia', 'citizen of the Republic of Finland', 'citizen of the Kingdom of Sweden' and others, where one element is the word 'citizen', and in the sense of 'citizen of the European Union', the meaning of 'citizen' is sized in scale or there are significant differences and if so, where to find these differences.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U189	Thank you for a good question. Broadly speaking, I believe, we can also say that those who do not have a lawyer's education, that the main difference lies in the fundamental rights inherent in citizenship, above all, in the right to vote, both active and passive. That's the main thing. However, there are also certain differences with regard to the right to vote, for example, when applying for europarlamento or local councils. Here comes the main differences. However, broadly speaking, yes, we can talk about those who are citizens of the Member States of the European Union and also of the European Union, but when we are talking about citizenship, the concept of citizenship must be distinguished. There may be major differences. But the rules agreed upon jointly in the European Union apply exactly the same to both the citizen of the Republic of Finland and the citizen of the Republic of Estonia. Both Finn and Estonian are citizens of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U190	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U191	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Paragraph 52 regulates non-authorisation and the obligation to leave. There is one point that says that if this person threatens public health. How do I technically ask out of pure curiosity? There is some way to find out that someone is endangering public health, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U192	Thank you for your question. This can be identified even if a person arrives at the Estonian border and suspects his or her state of health. It's possible to give him a quick medical checkup. If a person has any health problems that would require him or her to be placed in quarantine, he or she can do so. As a result, it is possible to decide further whether or not a person can be admitted. There are relatively exotic diseases in our sense. We still need to be ready for them and at the very least lay down the right to control people. If our national legal space does not give us the right to do so, for example, it would be possible for a person to ask at the border what is the legal basis for wanting to check his or her state of health.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U193	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U194	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good performer! After reading this bill and the explanations, I ask one such question. Point 67 amends the statutory remark. It states that Council Directive 2001/55/EC on minimum standards for granting temporary protection in the event of mass influx of displaced persons, etc. What is to be read out of it, and where does it lie in the context of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U195	Thank you. In the European Union, there are clearly agreed rules on the protection regime for persons in need of international protection. If a person needs international protection, the Member States are obliged to process that application, the moment when a person comes to the border of any Member State of the European Union and says that he or she wishes to receive international protection, the mechanism under which a Member State must start to establish his or her right to international protection will automatically be triggered. Maybe we don't have the right to send him back from the border at a time like this. This is a universal protection provision, which says that if a person applies for international protection, the State does not have the right to expel him or her, but must start proceedings, identify his or her person in the course of proceedings and whether he or she is entitled to international protection, and then decide whether to make a letter of departure or grant him or her international protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U196	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U197	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Paragraphs 26 and 27 of § 1 of the draft law amend Articles 56 and 57 of the Act in such a way that the fine rates are reduced from 300 to 100 fine units, while the fine is reduced from EUR 3200 to EUR 1100. The explanatory memorandum justifies this in such a way that sanctions are not proportionate, as the number of infringements is low and does not have a significant impact on the state budget. Do you not think that a reduction in the fine rate could lead to an increase in the number of infringements, as the infringement would no longer be sanctioned enough by means of a fine?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U198	Thank you. I don't think so. There's a simple reason. After all, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, we have reviewed all penal law, and in the course of this review we have corrected all the relevant penalty provisions to be proportionate. Consequently, this provision has also been specifically reviewed in conjunction so that it is proportionate to the other sanctions in force in Estonia. It was therefore also proposed to set new penalty rates as such. But I am absolutely certain that no person who wishes to enter the European Union will look at whether there are penalties for one infringement or another and how high they are.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U199	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U200	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We once sang in Tiig's dorm in Tartu: "We drove to the country under the name of a tourist, carrying a camera and a pistol under the cover. ' I'm talking about this ban on entry again. Clearly, if there is reason to believe that a person is ill, and if a medical check reveals that it is a really dangerous disease, this person will not be allowed into Estonia. If he violates public order, is drunk or behaves rudely, then it is also clear. But when a person is first seen, how can he be identified as a threat to national security? I now come to a specific case. Maybe you remember that. I'm afraid to be mistaken, but I think that person's name was Giulietto Chiesa, a former member of the European Parliament and a journalist from Italy. What was the reason for his expulsion, and how was it identified?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U201	Thank you. Let's start at the end. Giulietto Chiesat was not to be expelled, but was to be denied entry, which he ignored. He entered Estonia despite this ban. What were the reasons for this ban? I mean, they've been through a lawsuit. The question was that the Estonian state assessed its previous behaviour and consequently decided to impose an entry ban on this person. It is up to all countries to decide whether or not they are a citizen of the European Union to impose such a ban. All countries have a sovereign right to decide who they allow and who they do not.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U202	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U203	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! You have explained very nicely to us how the movement of a citizen of the European Union takes place in the countries of the European Union: if he wants to come to a country, he can come, if he wants to live there, he will register, if he wants to work, then obtain a permit. In general, it is easier to obtain a residence permit if there is a job. I was familiar with this because I have lived half my life in a country where it was exactly the same: if you wanted to come to Estonia from Ukraine, you had to register, only after that you got a job, but if you didn't have a job, you didn't get a check-in. It was more or less the same once. But explain to me, please, why at the time we thought it was harassment and fought with it, using all the methods that were available to us, until the singing revolution, but now we are proud of exactly the same order.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U204	Thank you. However, by not going back in the past, I would remind you that the fundamental principle of the European Union is the free movement of workers and people. This means that people have the right to work in any Member State. But it is clear that if you go to live in a Member State, it would also be nice to let this country know that I came here now and work here. Even if you go to work in Estonia and do not report it to the employment register, it is illegal. So in Estonia, too, we tell people that when they go to work, they should let them know. The fact that you have to let the state know that you live or work somewhere isn't harassment in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U205	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U206	Mr. Minister! I understand from your answer that the concept of a citizen of the European Union, no matter what that means, obviously covers all those people who are considered by at least one European Member State to be their own citizens. This law covers the citizens of those countries, plus citizens of about six or seven other countries who have been added here on an equal footing, plus potential family members of people who do not have the nationality of any of those countries. If I look forward, it really does not address all aspects of being a citizen of the European Union at all, but only one question: how long can you stay legally in Estonia or whether you cannot at all. The question is whether the title of this law is not wrong and in some way contradicts the substance of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U207	Thank you. Indeed, there are many and varied names of laws in Estonia. There is certainly much to argue about whether and how the title of the law is closely combined with each provision in grammatical terms. In the European Union, however, we have used the broader term 'european citizen' or 'European citizen'. As a result of the directive, this title of the law has come to us. If we would like to change this, we should look at whether and how this is going to go into line with the concepts agreed together in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U208	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U209	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, According to the draft, the right to stay and residence may be restricted on grounds of public health. However, health surveillance shall be carried out only in the event of reasonable doubt. At first glance, any infectious disease may not be as easily detectable as tuberculosis, which is why there may be no doubt that a person's health check needs to be carried out. How is it guaranteed that those entering our country will not bring with them epidemic diseases, if at first sight they may not even be seen to be sick?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U210	Thank you. The citizens of Estonia themselves can also lead to exotic and epidemonic diseases. This has happened in Estonia. Of course, the primary task of border guards is to identify a person when examining whether there are doubts that a health check might be necessary. In any other case, it is important that a person takes care of his or her own health and is interested in having his or her health in order. While a person is already in Estonia in need of medical care and isolation for example, there is an infection department in the Western Tallinn Central Hospital, where the person is being placed, just as the citizens of the Republic of Estonia are being placed there, who have received a disease that requires isolation from society.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U211	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U212	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good performer! That's the question. The draft law contains Chapter 4 "Admission of the beneficiary of international protection and its social rights and obligations'. For some reason, there is no comment on this chapter in this bold draft and explanatory memorandum, even though it concerns who pays, how much it costs, whether health services are added to the list, etc. Is it coincidence, fingering, rushing, or is there nothing to comment on?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U213	Thank you. Maybe you'll get me a little while then... [[Shout from the hall.]] Chapter 4 of the draft law. There are usually no chapters in the bill, there are points. [[From the chute hall.]] Did we get to the next item yet? Ah. Then I don't know what to say right now. Let us take this up for the next item in the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U214	We can move on with the questions. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U215	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Pursuant to § 1 (24) of the draft law, § 523 provides for the restriction that, before a decision to refuse entry is taken, the Police and Border Guard Board will give a citizen of the European Union and his family members the opportunity to obtain the necessary documents. Am I right to understand that a person is admitted from the external border and is then given the opportunity to validate the necessary documents? Shouldn't it be the other way around that before he enters the country, he should have documents?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U216	Thank you. The example is the easiest way to explain. Let's take the usual case. Person arrives at Tallinn airport. Before it enters Estonia, it is a transit zone. That's where he's waiting for his documents, for example, if for some reason he's missing a document or his explanation of the trip is inadequate and he needs further proof. He's waiting for a decision in the transit zone.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U217	Minister, there are no further questions for you. My colleague, Peeter Ernits, can ask his question in the context of a cost discussion. I now ask Mart Nut, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to present the Commission here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U218	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft law at its regular meeting on Monday 28 September. Mr Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, and Harry Kattai, Adviser to the Citizenship and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, were also invited to the discussion on this item. At the meeting of the Commission, they gave an in-depth overview of the draft and why it had been submitted. The Commission held a substantive debate on the draft. I am going to touch on some of the questions raised at the committee meeting. The first question was how to define national security within the meaning of the European Union citizen's law, which means national security when we talk about a citizen of the European Union. The minister replied that the term'state security' is not separately enshrined in the European Union citizen's law and is treated in the same way as in other laws in that law. The second question was whether and when minors could pose a threat to national security and on the basis of which criteria it would be determined. The minister replied that Chapter 15 of the Penal Code, which I am not going to quote at the moment, is part of the subject of anti-State offences: violent action against the Republic of Estonia, treason, non-violent action against the Republic of Estonia committed by an alien, non-violent hearing, support for the war or occupation of the Republic of Estonia, and a number of such things. In the case of minors, however, the principle of taking account of their best interests applies. The Minister noted that persons who have settled permanently in Estonia over the last ten years are, in principle, permanent residents of Estonia and their civil rights are comparable to the rights of the citizens of the Republic of Estonia, which must be restricted by a very strong basis. Such a strong foundation can only exist if these persons could endanger the security of the Estonian state. The Minister also stressed that no minor has been suspected of terrorism in Estonia so far, but that does not mean that such a case could not take place in the future. Regulation is therefore necessary. One more question raised. What happens when a citizen of the European Union or a minor family member of a citizen of the European Union wishes to challenge the decision on the obligation to leave in court? Is that possible, and how will this process take place in this case? Can this person stay in Estonia by then? The Minister replied that, yes, the person could challenge the decision on the obligation to leave and then be placed in the expulsion centre for the duration of the proceedings. The Commission also took procedural decisions. It was first proposed that this draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the first reading by 14 October. This decision was taken in a consensual manner. The decision to appoint Mart Nut, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur was also consensual. The third decision was consensual: to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 10 working days, 28 October. One decision was not consensual; it was a proposal to close the first reading. There were 5 members of the Commission in favour of this decision, no one opposed it, with 2 abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U219	Thank you, dear waitress. There are questions for you, though. Colleagues Toomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U220	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Mart Nutt! The draft provides that a minor of at least 15 years of age may carry out proceedings independently under the law of a citizen of the European Union. How is legal clarity guaranteed for minors when they have the right to vote when they are 16 years old, can they register their residence independently in the population register at the age of 15, but are only considered as adults at the age of 18?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U221	Thank you, Mr. Vitsut! The Commission has not included this provision in the draft. This question should have been addressed to the Minister for the Interior as a government waitress. Maybe you'll get an answer in the costaars.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U222	Thank you. No further questions. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 57. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 57 amendments. a on 28 October at 5.15 p.m. We have discussed the fifth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U223	Let's go to the last item on the sixth item today. The first reading of the Act on the Grant of International Protection to Aliens initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with this, the Bill on the Amendment of Other Laws 81 begins. The rapporteur is Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U224	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The legislative changes submitted to the Riigikogu from the government can be divided into two parts of their content. Most of the amendments concern the transposition of EU directives into Estonian law. A smaller group of changes has been considered by the government since the spring of this year due to the migratory pressure on the European Union, resulting in a European Union agreement on the relocation and resettlement of people in need of protection from third countries. I will start with the amendments of the second group and then go to the amendments resulting from the transposition of the directives. First. The draft proposes to grant the Government of the Republic the right to decide on an exceptional basis to participate in relocations and resettlements, and in this context also which countries and the number of persons to receive. As was the case during the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, after the first reading, we will return to this provision in the committee in greater detail and, for reasons of legal clarity, we will try to add references to the Riigikogu's right of codecision, which in practice relates in particular to the inclusion of the Committee on European Union Affairs. But, for the sake of information and clarity, it should be said that if the law of co-decision and laws of the Riigikogu are currently laid down in the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu and other legislations, of course, the wording of the rule is useful in this case to clarify the text and legal clarity of the law. I believe that we will find a suitable solution in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Second. The obligation to participate in the study of Estonian is imposed on beneficiaries of international protection. Under the proposed regulation, the obligation to participate in language training extends to those 18-year-old to old-age beneficiaries of international protection who are able to work. A beneficiary of international protection who acquires basic, secondary or higher education in Estonian is not required to participate in the study of Estonian language. In addition, the amount spent on providing language learning may be recovered from the recipient of international protection living in Estonia if he or she has not attained the A2 level of the Estonian language within two years. More detailed conditions relating to the acquisition of Estonian language, including the cost of learning the Estonian language and the procedure for its recovery, will be laid down by the Minister responsible for the field, in this case the Minister for Social Protection in his decree. Thirdly, the possibility of medical examination of beneficiaries of international protection is included in the law. This need arises in particular from the adoption of beneficiaries of international protection through relocation and resettlement programmes. Although the law currently provides for the rights of beneficiaries of international protection to participate in social security schemes, to receive labour market services and benefits, and to receive social services and benefits, in practice it is appropriate to include health services in the list in order to ensure uniform interpretation and understanding. The law provides an opportunity to carry out the medical examination of an applicant for international protection, but it assumes that persons who have already been granted international protection and who are subsequently transferred to specific areas will also be admitted to Estonia through relocation and resettlement. However, there is no certainty that their medical examinations have been carried out in the country where international protection was granted, such as Italy or Greece. The following is the question of transposition of directives. The definition of a safe third country is complemented by a serious risk criterion. According to the current regulation, the Police and Border Guard Board may be considered a safe third country where the life and freedom of an alien seeking asylum are not at risk because of his race, religion, nationality, social group membership or political convictions which respect the principle of non-refoulement and respect the prohibition laid down in international law to return an alien when threatened with torture or cruel, inhuman or other degrading treatment. As a result of the addition of the Procedural Conditions Directive, the criteria listed above will also include a criterion of serious risk. Similarly, the right to education for applicants for international protection is laid down in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, as is the case for citizens and residents. The draft provides the minor with access to basic, vocational and secondary national education under the same conditions as Estonian citizens three months after the submission of the application for international protection, pending the expiry of the international protection procedure. In addition, an applicant for international protection has the right to preparatory training, including language training, in order to ensure that he or she has access to education. The draft also provides that access to upper secondary school education must not be restricted solely on the sole ground that the minor's applicant for international protection has become an adult during the procedure. A regulation shall be established for the assessment and consideration of the applicant's special needs. This is one of the most important changes to the recast directives. Consequently, the draft will first provide an indicative list of groups of vulnerable persons who are most likely to be applicants with special needs. Such groups include minors, unaccompanied minors, disabled people, elderly, pregnant women, single parents with a minor child, victims of human trafficking, persons with serious illness, persons with mental health problems, victims of torture or rape, or persons who have been subjected to other forms of brutal psychological, physical or sexual violence. According to the draft, the central obligation to fix special needs rests with the Police and Border Guard Board. At the same time, the existence of a special need will monitor and provide systematic and individual support throughout the international protection procedure, of course, to all bodies in contact with the applicant. Provision shall be made for the regulation of procedural time limits. The Council of the European Union considers the time limits to be one of the most important points of the recast Procedural Conditions Directive. The draft provides for a general rule that the application will be examined as soon as possible and no later than six months after its adoption. It also provides that the Police and Border Guard Board is to be able to deviate from the general six-month deadline by exceptionally extending the deadline by nine months, i.e. to a maximum of 15 months. Such exceptional cases include, for example, complex factual and/or legal circumstances where a large number of persons apply for international protection at the same time or where the delay is clearly due to the failure of the applicant to comply with his or her obligations in international protection proceedings. The general period of six months may also be extended by three months in exceptional or justified circumstances, where this is necessary to ensure an adequate and complete examination of the application for international protection. It should also be noted that the maximum period for examining an application is 21 months from the date of receipt of the application. The right of appeal against the decision taken on the application and, in this respect, the right of stay of the applicant during the appeal procedure shall be amended. According to the draft, the decision rejecting the application or declaring international protection invalid may be challenged before the Administrative Court within 10 days of the date of notification of the decision. The right of appeal shall include at least the appeal procedure at first instance. Unlike the current version of the law, the draft provides for an automatic right to stay during the exercise of an effective remedy, i.e. the right of appeal. Such a right, according to the draft, covers two periods, i.e. both until the time limit for lodging an appeal has expired (by law it lasts for ten days) and when the appeal is lodged until the decision on the appeal has been taken. In addition, the draft provides for exceptional cases in which a person does not have the right to stay automatically until the proceedings before the Court of First Instance or the time limit for appeal have expired, but a court may decide to stay until the appeal proceedings have ended. The sixth and last major changes to the directive are that the draft complements the existing regulation laying down the principle of 'family unity'. The draft provides that families are to be accommodated by specifying that minor children or minor applicants of applicants are to be accommodated with their parents, their unmarried underage siblings and guardians, provided this is in the best interests of minors. Unlike the current regulation, the draft amendment takes into account the principle of family unity for all minors in the placement of applicants. We've been through the changes now. The government supports the Commission's decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U225	Thank you, Minister. You have many questions about this 340-page package. Colleagues Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U226	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The question is § 75, i.e. paragraph 64 of the draft law. In particular, paragraph 41 states that education in Estonian is compulsory from the age of 18. That is absolutely clear. The next paragraph, 42, says that a beneficiary of international protection who acquires basic, secondary or higher education in Estonian is not required to participate in the study of Estonian language. Separately, this is also perfectly understandable. But when I put these two sections together, I see this picture that, for example, in the fourth grade of some of Viljandi's fine comprehensive schools, an 18-year-old or older adult beneficiary of international protection is sitting and studying with children. That's two points. Do you not think that this regulation should be reworded and made clearer somehow?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U227	Thank you. I don't think so. There are, and there are, provisions in Estonian law. When a legislative act is created, the principle of going more generally to a more lonely, i.e. what is below is the provision, the more it clarifies the above provision. Paragraph 75 41 states in general that all beneficiaries of international protection who are 18 years of age or older learn Estonian. Paragraph 42 states that if you are studying basic, secondary or higher education, you do not need to participate in this language study, i.e. it is a difference compared to paragraph 41. It's very clear here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U228	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U229	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have two questions and I will try to be quick. Maybe you're so nice, and for the sake of clarity, you're going to specify the terms. If we are talking about the decision of 22 September to relocate a certain number of people, Estonia has joined this decision, what legal status are these persons in? The second question concerns § 121 of the Act, or paragraph 17, in this draft, where it is quite laconically stated that the government will decide on the participation and the countries from which persons will be accepted. What is the approach under which the government makes such a decision? We know that in the Aliens Act, the legislator has established a limit in the case of general immigration, with which entry into Estonia has so far been managed quite well and consciously. Is there something more precise and meaningful now, or is it just a subject of debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U230	Thank you. First, the quick answer to the first question. For those who arrive in Estonia, it has been decided that they will receive international protection, and before entering Estonia they must also be granted a residence permit for Estonia. We will still negotiate with the Italians and Greeks only those who are entitled to international protection, not anyone else. Whether Italy, together with the hotspot, i.e. with Frontex and the European Asylum Support Office, or EASO, makes the decision to recognise international protection as a subject, is still open, or whether it is done by Estonia in Italy. Whether this decision will be taken by Italy is still not discussed in the European Union as a whole. However, Estonia must make the decision to grant the right of residence in Estonia anyway. It's still an open detail. With regard to § 121, with regard to this provision, the Ministry of Justice and I argued at great length what the wording should be. As there is a reference to two very specific mechanisms of relocation and resettlement, this does not concern the so-called general regulation, but the decision at EU level on relocation or resettlement, which in turn is referred to in Article 78 (3) of the Treaty on European Union (crisis mechanism). However, during the preparation of the first reading, we understood very clearly in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that it would be necessary to clarify this a little bit, so that the so-called simple reader who is taking the law into his hands could also clearly understand that it is linked to the European Union's decision-making process and, consequently, to the codecision process in which all national parliaments are involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U231	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U232	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Given that the government has repeatedly said that we do not have a cap, and its law has introduced a whole series of subsidies, which several European countries have either reduced or have already reduced, why are there no mention of reducing the grants offered by Estonia, which are unreasonable and disproportionate compared to the average wage, pensions and other benefits of the Estonian people? None of our desperate people gets money for apartment repairs, furniture purchases, etc. However, this is to be offered to refugees.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U233	Thank you. It could be said in rhetoric that give an example of support that is greater for subjects of international protection than for the citizens of the Republic of Estonia. Income support is just as high. As far as the adaptation of the dwelling is concerned, this money is coming from the European Commission's aid measure, EUR 6000 10,000, depending on the applicant for international protection. As far as Estonian national law is concerned, according to Estonian law, applicants for international protection have the same grants as the citizens of the Republic of Estonia. You were quite wrong here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U234	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U235	Thank you to the manager. Good minister! It seems to me that there is an inherent contradiction in the draft. Your task as a minister is also to see the whole picture, not just a specific task. Local authorities must provide asylum seekers with both the necessary language training and the corresponding support services. All this in a context where you do not give more money to the local government's income base. We see that in the state budget you take away education investment support. At the same time, the central government is not very interested in whether or not the local authority gives its consent to the reception of asylum seekers on its territory. In short, local authorities do not have rights, they do not have resources, but have responsibilities. Why is there such a contradiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U236	Thank you. I do not see this contradiction within the framework of this law, because 90% of this bill concerns the adaptation of European Union directives to Estonian national law, and there is not much to do with local governments. That's not your reference, yes, as part of this bill. The additional provisions that came here after the amendments due to the directive concern language training, as I said, in the same way, the health check and the delegation to the government. These are the three things that came in on this bill. There is no way of saying that the rights and obligations of local governments are not taken into account. This law makes it very clear that people who apply for international protection have the same rights as Estonian citizens under the law granting international protection to aliens. That is the idea of a directive. If a person has been recognised as a subject of international protection, he or she will enjoy the same rights as an Estonian citizen if an Estonian citizen needs one or another service. This is a general principle of international protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U237	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U238	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Paragraph 1 (34) of the draft law provides for exceptions to § 181 of the Act, which permit a derogation from the general six-month deadline and an extension of the deadline to 15 months. As an exceptional case, the explanatory memorandum indicates a situation in which the applicant fails to fulfil his or her obligations in the international protection procedure. If the applicant for international protection itself impedes the effective conduct of the procedure and does not fulfil the conditions of the procedure, how is it justified to extend the period?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U239	Thank you. Again, it is the easiest way to explain using an example. A person comes and says his name, but he doesn't have a document. He or she shall apply for international protection. We will process this application, but we will not receive proof of his identity within six months or, for example, of his country of residence. We have had a real case in Estonia where people have said that they are Vietnamese citizens, they have said their name, but we have sent a request to the Vietnamese authorities and we have received the answer that such people do not live or have not lived in Vietnam. These people did not fulfil their obligation as beneficiaries of international protection to give the right statements, but we also have nowhere to send them out because we do not know where to send them. Vietnam said there were no such people there. As a result, we are extending the deadline to look for additional evidence. This is the basis for us to extend the deadline for proceedings, because we cannot simply send a person anywhere and put him on any plane. We must have a return agreement so that we can send him to a specific country. Our job is to find out who that person is and where he came from. This is a very simple example.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U240	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U241	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, My question is also about § 1 of the bill. Point 13 lays down the conditions under which a person must be provided with information in a language which he understands within 15 days of the submission of an application for international protection or a residence permit. My question is based on an analogy with visa applications and refusals. If the application for international protection is not granted, is there any point in explaining to the person his or her rights and obligations in a particular Member State? They just say yes or no about giving a visa.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U242	Thank you. There is also a right of appeal in these amendments. This was one of the most critical points of transposition of the directive. Indeed, our wish would have been for the Estonian state to make a decision in the same way as in the visa procedure, where there is no right of appeal, so if the Estonian state made a decision not to grant international protection, it would not be possible to appeal it. However, according to the principles agreed in the European Union, at least one step, judicial procedure, must be guaranteed to a person, which means that if a person has the right to legal proceedings of at least one step or the right to appeal against an administrative decision, he must be able to understand that he has been the subject of a negative administrative decision and that it is possible to appeal against that decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U243	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U244	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. A few years ago, there was a situation where we knew exactly how many people the country could receive. I think it was 0.1% of 900000. The situation is different now, we are talking about granting international protection to foreigners. Is it determined anywhere that a number of foreigners may be granted a residence permit by the Police and Border Guard Board and how many international protection and what number does it relate to?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U245	Thank you. These figures are unrelated: one is the immigration limit and the other is the granting of international protection. Nor does the granting of international protection under international conventions enter this limit. In purely theoretical terms, that would be unthinkable. International protection is granted to a person only if he or she cannot live in his or her country of residence if he or she is discriminated against, persecuted, tortured and has no chance of being in his or her home country. It is not possible that when 30 applicants for international protection come to Estonia at the end of the year, for example, we say that we are full of 0.1%. We can't say, "Hey, dear Latvians or Finns, be good, go ahead with them." The international protection procedure shall take place irrespective of the limit.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U246	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U247	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The draft provides for the possibility of challenging the decision of the Police and Border Guard Board on international protection until the appeal procedure at first instance. Is there also a mechanism for assisting a person when he goes to court, for example, by helping to reduce the language barrier? If so, what costs have been taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U248	Thank you. A person has the right to apply for state legal aid if he or she needs it. We need to provide him with translation services, and we still have these costs in administrative proceedings, in court proceedings. If they increase, of course, we will review this problem on a rolling basis, but we have not anticipated any exponential growth. When we look at decisions not to grant international protection, they have hardly been challenged in the current practice. So I do not see much concern here, but the general rule is that the same principles apply to the Estonian people themselves. State legal aid is this mechanism.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U249	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U250	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! The draft provides for an amendment to Paragraph 14 (4) of the Act, according to which an application for international protection may be made in any form, including oral form, and the State is obliged to register it within three working days of the submission of the application. How will it be ensured that an oral application is registered within three days? What kind of methodology is this going to be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U251	Thank you. Once again, I will use an example to answer, which is the easiest way. A man comes across the Piusa River, he's being held by a border guard, but he's got nothing with him but a piece of cloth. After he's been hit by a border guard, he says he wants international protection. This is the moment that the Police and Border Guard will run for three days. In such cases, the person is usually delivered to the first cordon and the necessary written procedures are carried out there, i.e. in fact, this will be done more quickly than within three days. This three days is something extreme, it is an option if there should be so many applicants that, for example, it will not be possible to serve such a large number of people in the cordon and will have to transport them somewhere bigger. But also then, I say, we do not need it in essence for three days, because we can always transport people within one day to a place where an application for international protection can also be submitted in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U252	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U253	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I, too, have a question of implementing deadlines. According to § 1 (34) of the draft law, § 181 (1) of the Act is supplemented so that the application is examined as soon as possible but no later than six months after the adoption of the application. The explanatory memorandum states that the time limit for proceedings shall run from the date of receipt of the application, which may be submitted in any form. How to understand this provision in more detail: can the person obtain international protection from the moment he or she has been transferred to Estonia and is located in the territory of Estonia or from when he or she has applied for international protection?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U254	This provision, in general, still deals with cases where a person is identified at the Estonian border and submits an application for international protection. If you ask how soon this deadline will run, this is when a person says verbally that he or she wants international protection. The formalisation during the three days that Mr Sults asked about is the technical side. From the moment the border guard has identified the person, it'll start running for us for six months.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U255	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U256	Thank you, Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. Paragraph 43 of the draft law complements § 251 (1) of the Act, which states that a decision rejecting an application or declaring international protection invalid may be challenged before the Administrative Court within 10 days of the date of notification of the decision. How is it ensured that an applicant for international protection can file an action in Estonian and, if necessary, prepare an application for legal aid within 10 days?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U257	Thank you. For reasons of accuracy, they do not bring an action, they lodge an appeal because it is an administrative decision. But it's a question of detail. It is our job to ensure this. If the Police and Border Guard Board has taken a negative decision on the person, it is the duty of the Police and Border Guard Board to provide him with a translation and to explain his rights and obligations. As is well known, no very strict claims have been made on the form of the complaint when addressing the administrative court, it is sufficient for a person to state his or her wish, submit it to the administrative court and the administrative court can accept it. If, for example, it is necessary to give additional time to supplement and correct the complaint, that time shall be granted. However, ten days is quite sufficient for a person to challenge that decision. It's usually done on the first day.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U258	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U259	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good performer! That's a very interesting lie. It's 340 pages. I'm not gonna ask you about the nuances, even though the devil is hiding in details, everyone knows that. But the law we're fixing was 44 pages thick, but there are 17 pages in the bill, so there's going to be a third more. Can we now report strongly to Brussels that Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council has been fully transposed or, for some reason, has not been transposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U260	Thank you for your question. Of course, it must be understood from a technical point of view that 17 pages of the bill does not mean 17 pages of the text of the law. If you already count the lines that refer to the point that § 34 is supplemented by paragraph 21 in the following wording and take all these points behind you, the text will be considerably reduced. However, whether the European Commission is assessing the work of Parliament and the government, by saying whether the directive has been transposed fairly and correctly, we will find out after a while when we send a report on the draft that Parliament has finally adopted. Then there will be an assessment of the compliance of the directive, and then we will find out whether or not infringement proceedings are coming and whether everything has been taken over. According to our assessment, this draft has transposed all the provisions of the directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U261	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U262	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I look at the effects of the state budget in the explanatory memorandum and I have to say that I think there are a number of questionable issues here. Some of the costs, even though they run through improvements, are not included here at all. For example, half a word does not mention that schools or kindergartens have an obligation to receive these people within three months. What this means for schools where perhaps a little more than one or two people come from a completely foreign environment have not been calculated at all here. Are you sure that the amounts recorded here, such as EUR 27000 for health surveillance or EUR 30000 for dealing with people with special needs, are adequate? Here the opposition's drafts have been repeatedly rejected, which has been said that there has not been an adequate assessment of the budgetary impact.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U263	Thank you. I can rely on the calculations and assessments of my colleague and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Of course, it is very difficult to estimate such expenditure with the precision of the euro, but I trust the people who are responsible for it and have given it to you to bring it here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U264	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U265	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, According to point 11 of the draft, the applicant for international protection is given the opportunity to state the reasons why this country cannot be considered a safe third country. How exactly does the statement of reasons for an applicant for international protection take place, and how will it be established that the reasons are correct so that it becomes clear, in which case it is a military and in which case an economic refugee?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U266	Thank you. The general rule is that we use the help of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our international partners and the assessments of international organisations. If, for example, the UNHCR has confirmed that a region is a war zone, Estonia does not need to assess it further. Let us take the example of Ukraine. That's a good example, isn't it? With regard to Ukraine, we can tell ourselves whether a territory there is a danger to people and from its surface to take decisions through a simplified procedure. It is a sovereign right of states. We are very interested in a common list of safe countries in Europe to rule out such disputes. If this list exists, it does not lose the ability of countries to decide for themselves, depending on where the person comes from. For example, a person comes from Singapore. Today we have no reason to say that it would be dangerous to live in Singapore. Or if the person seeking international protection is from Russia, we need to look at what could be the basis for this protection, whether political persecution or something else. Consequently, a decision will also be taken. So we make these decisions in cooperation with our international partners and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U267	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U268	Thank you very much. To my astonishment, I consider in § 191 of the Supplement to the Act that international protection may only be provided by a State or by an organisation or association controlling a significant part of its territory if that State or association expresses its willingness to provide protection and is capable of doing so. I wonder what in the Estonian context could be an organisation or association that expresses its willingness to offer protection and is capable of doing so? Is this the Reform Party? If this is the Reform Party, where will it take the resources to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U269	Thank you. Thank you for your support to the Reform Party and our capabilities! But here it must be seen that this wording has been jointly agreed internationally, it comes from a directive in which we say that only a country can offer international protection when speaking about Estonia, a state or a territorial control organisation or association, if that country or association has expressed that will. In Estonia, we are talking only about the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U270	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U271	Mr. Minister! While working here in Estonian, it seems to me that the basic concept of this draft is protection, which has at least three types of protection: international protection, additional protection and temporary protection. I can't figure out how these concepts relate to each other. Are these three species of protection or are some species of another species? I also fail to understand what makes international protection international and, in the case of subsidiary protection, what it complements. Can you help me, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U272	Thank you. In the debate on this particular draft, it is even as if it should not answer this question, because it does not change these principles with its additions. We should, however, take up the so-called original text since 2005, the law on granting international protection to an alien, which sets out these concepts. Temporary protection is stated in § 5. The basis for international protection is basically in § 4, which refers to refugee and refugee status. The third type of protection that you mentioned -- I already had an idea for a moment -- is an additional protection. Yes, additional protection is also covered by § 4. So §s 4 and 5 are the ones where these terms are explained. If the honourable questioner wants to know more, then the explanatory memorandum to the 2005 draft should be opened, which contains beautiful long explanations, which are additional protection and temporary protection for the refugee or, say, the beneficiary of international protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U273	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U274	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. The beneficiary of international protection shall have the right to submit an application for legal aid orally or in writing in a language which he understands. Permanent residents whose native language is Russian have the right to apply in Estonian or, in certain cases, in English, according to the legal aid law of the country in force. Why is there such a difference in treatment here and, to a certain extent, is there no discrimination based on language?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U275	Thank you. There is certainly no discrimination here. A person's international protection status is special. This means that a person has escaped from home and is seeking safe asylum, and the country has the right to decide whether or not to grant international protection to that person. That is why we have a separate law on granting international protection to an alien. This also results in a person's special status and the right to receive documents relating to an administrative appeal in a language which he understands.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U276	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U277	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of the Interior! Paragraph 1 (23) of the draft law is supplemented by § 151 concerning applicants for international protection with special needs. The explanatory memorandum notes that the assessment of the special need should be carried out in the first contact with the applicant for international protection. How can it still be ensured that the special need can be identified as quickly as possible when it comes to victims of trafficking in human beings and sexual violence? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U278	Thank you for your question. It's very right that this should be the first contact. Usually, at the time of the first contact, a person tells himself what his or her status is and why he or she wants international protection. That's where the procedure goes. If a person does not say so himself, but it turns out during the proceedings that he belongs to a group with special needs, special treatment is needed, then it is always possible to change his status during the proceedings. Where a specific need can be identified immediately, it shall be indicated that it is a person belonging to a special group. Where a specific need is identified in the course of the procedure, this addition shall be made during the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U279	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U280	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In answering one of the previous questions, you said very clearly that beneficiaries of international protection are not going under our internal immigration quota, if I have understood correctly. You said it was a very logical approach. I have to say that I have asked the Prime Minister this question before, I think, in questioning the Prime Minister when it was a question of an inquiry from another party, and then there was no such clear answer. Just in case, I'm going to ask you if this understanding or regulation has always been like this. This interpretation has not come about because of the migration crisis, has it? What do you think, if there are still a good number of asylum seekers, is there reason to consider reducing the immigration quota?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U281	Thank you for your question. I'm saying my subjective assessment right now. I said that this is a logical approach, therefore, I would emphasise once again that our immigration quota is 0.1% of the population, and this quota, which is established by law, cannot be taken into account for applicants for international protection either. As I said, let's assume that people have come here in the course of family migration, labour migration and normal living migration and received a residence permit in the ordinary course of the procedure, but then there will be a war situation somewhere, and people will come looking for protection for us. Then we can't raise our hands and say we're sorry, we can't accept these people because we have a quota. We haven't had a situation like this yet. In this sense, it may be necessary to review the relationship between the granting of international protection to an alien and the quota in two laws, to determine whether there is conflict of laws or not. I do not see this conflict today, but if the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has a desire to deal with this matter between first and second readings, I would be happy to contribute. However, my understanding is that granting international protection cannot be part of the country's overall immigration quota.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U282	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U283	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I now come to the additions to Article 75 and paragraph 4 thereof. The recipients of international protection living in Estonia, who have not attained the language level A2 specified in the Language Act within two years of receiving the protection, have been very well written here. Where and how did this level A2 come from? Don't you think this level is a little weak?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U284	Thank you. I would very much like to see this level higher, but I think the Ministry of Social Affairs had even offered it with the Ministry of Education and Research. It is always debatable what level we demand. We tried to be as realistic as possible and to take into account what could be achieved in this period and what is the necessary minimum, which allows us to say that a person can express himself in Estonian to cope with his life. Of course, further language training will also take place, hopefully on its own. If we raise this level, I'm afraid we can stay in a bit of a stupid situation ourselves, because we should start charging a lot of people back. I don't know if that makes any sense. In fact, we need to motivate people to learn the language, not force them to learn it. As a result, there was no "sanctioning mechanism" in the form of financial penalties or other forms other than the possibility of recovering the money spent on language learning.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U285	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U286	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As the Estonian Riigikogu is discussing this amendment, I think this law is intended for the Estonian state. You spoke a little while ago about § 191 that the defence provider is only the state. So what are we going to do with this text? You could do it more sparingly and write it in a way that is the state, but not these organisations, and what is all meant here. Can't we do it shorter?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U287	Thank you. If you wish to table such an amendment, you can, of course, do so. We in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, when preparing for second reading, are trying to see how it fits in with the wording of a directive jointly agreed by all the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U288	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U289	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'll give you a question. In the meantime, a person from my neighborhood called and asked me to ask. All right, there will be 400 or 500 refugees, this is not a matter of principle, but in some European countries there is a very important principle that it cannot be opposed to the merger of families. At least Sweden and Denmark are said to be countries where there can be no argument against family reunification. If 400 to 500 refugees are in Estonia and then it turns out that each of them has 5 to 20 relatives, who by law should be subject to the principle of family unity, what will happen then? Will the Estonian state resist whether there is a mechanism for this, or will we begin to accept them all?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U290	Thank you for your question. Family reunification, yes, is an international principle. However, there are, as always, small clauses in this principle, which must be taken into account. Firstly, family reunification is based on the principle of spouses and descending relatives. That's one. It is very difficult to foresee that one person would have 20. It's theoretically possible, but it's quite difficult to imagine in practice. Secondly, when it comes to family reunification, it must be said that these people must also go through the same procedure, i.e. they must be granted permission to enter Estonia. If the Estonian state says that a person may pose a threat to the Estonian state, then we will not allow him to enter here. But, yes, there is, of course, a general principle of family reunification. If you look at Estonia's current practice, it shows that ten people have received international protection in Estonia and because of these, about two people have come to Estonia in the course of family migration, not with each of them two, but with ten people two or three. Additional family migration has been around 25%, not 250%.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U291	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U292	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good performer! According to § 73 of the current Act, the beneficiary of international protection can at present consider that he/she is intended to cover the rental costs of the dwelling up to 0.3 per square metre of the income limit; in the case of renovation of the dwelling, the allowance is 1.5 per square metre of the income limit and 13 per person of the income limit when it is furnished. As I understand it, there is no intention to change these coefficients. How much money must one rural municipality or mayor take into account to establish the residence of one such recipient of income support, how many euros should be paid in the middle?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U293	Thank you for your question. The local government does not have to worry or consider anything, as income support is public support and is paid out of the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U294	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U295	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Are you sure that the survey will draw the right conclusions for the area where the person comes from? That's only made clear from what he said. At the same time, we know that entire offices even issue false passports and other false documents.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U296	Thank you. I am not sure, which is why we, together with our partners, are checking people's statements. A person can say anything. Look, if a criminal is caught in the course of a crime, he usually says he hasn't done anything. That doesn't mean we trust him and believe what he says. In such cases, there is criminal proceedings, there is a procedure for examining an application for international protection in such cases, in which the maximum truth which can be found for one person or another can be found. Human testimony is only one component of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U297	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U298	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. One of the vital examples you gave me urges me to ask such a question. If anyone claims to be Vietnamese, but when they make an inquiry, it turns out that there is no such Vietnamese, what happens to this person? He's kind of an outlaw. Is this one of the exceptional examples, or is the arrival of such persons an emerging trend?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U299	Thank you. I can't think of it as a trend from the surface of this one example. There are certainly cases where applicants for international protection make false declarations. This usually occurs in cases where a person has been caught at the border during the so-called normal border guard work, has tried to enter the country via the air corridor or has been detained in Tallinn Old Harbour, for example. As far as controlled migration is concerned by the current EU decision, i.e. relocation and resettlement, such cases cannot be included among them. But what about this person? Our option is, as has been said here, for 21 months at most, the maximum length of the procedure is to make his status clear. If it is not possible to make this clear during this period, then we may be forced to release a person. We can't keep him in the expulsion center anymore, because we don't have a basis for that. He'll be free until the next moment he's caught. If a person still doesn't cooperate, then of course he has to consider that he is illegal for the rest of his life, no matter where he is. He doesn't get legal income, social security, health insurance or anything like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U300	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U301	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Mr Ernits did not really ask about the limit of living, but his question was whether the rural municipality elders and local government managers should begin to decorate the apartments and cover the costs of the apartments or whether the NGO is involved in it. Income support is, of course, the same for all people living in Estonia, with the same level of income support as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U302	Thank you. The manager here used the word 'costars'. Well, we can explain what Mr. Ernits was thinking later. But when it comes to adapting the dwelling, there are differences. In the ordinary international defence procedure, the Police and Border Guard Board, together with the Ministry of Social Affairs, naturally tries to find a suitable place to live, and the person himself is interested in finding a place to live. That's when they find a way to adjust the dwelling. When we are talking about the relocation and resettlement mechanism, here we have the European Union's additional resources and we can use them if the accommodation needs to be adapted. You have to look on a case-by-case basis, so you can find the most suitable solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U303	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U304	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, It doesn't exactly say that in this bill. You once, I understood that, in one of your answers, you mentioned it, but I still have a question. In addition to today's immigration limit, do you think it is possible and necessary to set an additional threshold for resettlement, or in any way to regulate this issue, so that we can all understand that there is a ceiling here too?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U305	Thank you. In my opinion, this is somewhat problematic. We do not know in advance what the future might be like with our closest neighbours or somewhere in the immediate region, or even not in the immediate region, but in the vicinity of the European Union, for example. Let's just take a theoretical example. If the countries of the European Union were to set such a limit, it would mean that the European Union, through its members, would send a message to the UN and the international community that, if this limit is full, no one will be able to get here, even though there is a situation behind our borders where people need international protection. I would therefore rather deal with the underlying causes of the problem outside the European Union rather than deal with such number magic, because it is not very fruitful in the long term. The Institute of International Defence is quite special. This will provide protection for people fleeing from war atrocities, discrimination, persecution, torture and other atrocities. In the case of other controlled migrations with a limit of 0.1, it makes perfect sense that the countries here set their own borders, but I am somewhat hesitant when I talk to the Institute of International Protection about setting this limit.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U306	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U307	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! There is certainly no limit to the number of people who have reached the Estonian border and are seeking asylum here. Estonia is obliged to examine their applications and if they really comply with refugee or war refugee status, Estonia must grant them asylum regardless of their number. However, the situation is different when we talk about resettled persons that Estonia brings in from another country. In my opinion, Estonia can set limits here, because Estonia is simply based on its capacity and thus gives the international community a signal of how many people we are able to receive.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U308	Thanks for the clarification. These are different things. When we talk about international protection, there are, of course, different 'blocks'. Resettlement will only take place in cooperation with UNHCR. It can only rely on a bilateral agreement. That is actually what it means to set a limit. For example, our northern neighbours have a deal of about 1,100 people a year. There's no question about that. But if we're even talking about international protection, look at my previous answer. However, of course, a separate agreement with the UNHCR can only rely on our capabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U309	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Mart Nuti, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U310	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed draft law No 81 on the grant of international protection to aliens and related amendments to other laws, as well as the previous item on the agenda, at the ordinary meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Monday 28 September. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, Ly Pärn, Adviser to the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, and Triin Raag, Head of Local Government Services and Grants of the Welfare Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, were invited to the discussion on this item. At the meeting of the Commission, the Minister gave a comprehensive overview of the draft law as well as of the reasons why it had been submitted. Some of the additional questions raised by the Commission were actually answered in today's debate when the Minister answered them, but I still mark some issues. One question that the members of the committee drew attention to was whether, in the draft text, this specifically applies to § 1 (17) and § 121, the rule of delegation has not been put a little vaguely and could it be made clearer. The Minister explained that this was a compromise between the draft authors, but certainly, if it is possible to clarify the wording, it is well-founded. The second question concerned terminology. The terminology used in the current laws is based on the Geneva Convention of 1951, such as the terms 'asylum', 'asylum seeker', but now we are going to go to international protection terminology and these earlier asylum terms are no longer used in the law. It was clarified that these terms were commonly used in the European Union. The difference between the social guarantees for refugees and beneficiaries of international protection, which has so far been in place, will be eliminated. This means that the transition to the general concept of international protection would be useful in all contexts. It was also noted that the draft requires access to education and asked which sources it was financed from. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that this provision was already being implemented in practice, i.e. access to education is now guaranteed for a minor who is an asylum seeker. In this sense, the procedure basically does not change. The financing is made clear from the state budget. It was also asked whether there was a willingness to provide all beneficiaries of international protection with compulsory education in the Estonian language, from which this education is financed and how the sanctioning is defined in the draft. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that according to the draft, an 18-year-old beneficiary of international protection has the obligation to study the Estonian language. This applies not only to people admitted by relocation and resettlement, but also to those who have already received international protection in Estonia. Minors and persons who acquire education in Estonian do not have the obligation to study the Estonian language. Compulsory language learning is more in the individual's own interest, so that he or she can have a basic language level and be active in the labour market. Hopefully, the ability to provide language learning exists, but there is certainly a zero level of capacity in Estonian regions and the ability to offer Estonian language learning on the basis of Russian and English. It also asked the Commission to explain how a list of safe third countries would emerge and who would decide which countries would be included. There are basically two possible lists. One is the list of safe countries of origin, which would fall within the competence of the European Union, and the other is the list of safe third countries, which is the competence of a Member State. In general, it would certainly be useful if there were cooperation between the central authorities of the European Union and also between the Member States in drawing up these lists, as this could lead to confusion if these lists differ from one country to another. It also asked how the place where asylum applications were lodged was determined. The Minister explained that, as a general rule, there is no change here because this place is on the border of the Estonian state and no matter what, it is a land border, a sea border or an air border, the rules are basically the same. However, the law introduces an exception provided for in the decisions on relocation and resettlement. The Government of the Republic is exceptionally entitled to determine the country of destination or, for example, an embassy in which applications for international protection can be submitted during a certain period. The Commission took procedural decisions at the end of the consultation. Firstly, a consensus was reached on sending this item to the debate by 14 October inclusive. It was also proposed that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 10 working days, or 28 October, and that Mart Nutt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, be appointed rapporteur. These decisions were consensual. However, it was not consensual that the proposal to close the first reading was accepted by 5 members of the Commission, 3 against and 1 abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U311	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. I'm sorry, it is! Colleagues Jüri Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U312	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Nutt, you are probably the most experienced member of the Riigikogu in dealing with draft laws on public law. I believe you more or less agree that, technically or legally, this is one of the worst drafts that has ever been here. No more than a third of the original paragraphs have been preserved, these upper-numbered paragraphs have been wedged between, these upper-numbered paragraphs ranging up to sex, as well as additional paragraphs at least up to a quarter, and both the title and the contents of many paragraphs have been replaced by a completely different one. What is your opinion, is there now a need and a chance to demand it or to work in that direction in order to obtain a new full text with a reasonable numbering in which there is no bullshit that appears here today?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U313	Thank you. It is not, in fact, the first or only time that we are in a situation where the law needs to be fundamentally amended. Isn't that, in principle, a question of deciding whether we come up with a new full text or so-called improving the law by sections? I recall, for example, the Aliens Act, where, at one beautiful moment, a new full text is already in force, I think there were about twenty of more than 200 paragraphs that had been in the original law; the rest was all sewn up there. I do not think there is any reason to demand a new full text in this respect. This must still be decided by the performer, which the performer, in this case the Government of the Republic, considers appropriate. That is the right of legislative initiative. I think that this issue could certainly be raised at the Commission's meeting and that it would also be worth agreeing with the initiator on how to proceed. A great deal of work has been done and, in my opinion, it is not justified to start this work again from scratch.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U314	Thank you. Indeed, there are no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Henn Põllaas, Estonian Conservative People's Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U315	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, In the current international situation, the law on granting international protection to an alien and its final version are extremely important. I don't think it's worth the rush. Therefore, I should not consider the ten days proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to be sufficient for the amendments. But I come to the first point, which was not included in the amendments and which I also asked the Minister about. That is, to the benefits that refugees receive. The Minister claimed that refugee benefits are the same as those granted to Estonian citizens, that refugees are treated in the same way as citizens. Yes, indeed, the law states that they are entitled to the same social benefits as Estonian citizens, both state and local government benefits: unemployment fund benefits, sickness fund benefits and all kinds of other benefits. But the difference is quite obvious and large. The Act sets out a number of grants that no citizen of the Republic of Estonia receives: in two years, the rent of the refugee apartment will be paid, they will receive money for the repair of the dwelling, for the purchase of furniture, they will receive support, they will receive language training support, which is, of course, very necessary, they will receive free translation services, etc. All of this is not considered as revenue. In particular, the rent paid for the dwelling and the money for the purchase of furniture and the repair of the dwelling make you wonder. That is why it can be said that they are treated differently and are treated unequally compared to Estonian citizens. If an Estonian citizen who is unemployed and receives unemployment benefits receives even ten euros of income, for example, because he went to help the neighbor to build a cageless one, he will lose the allowance. If we collide all the grants granted to refugees under this law, it will be about EUR 1000 per month. They do not have to give up unemployment benefits or other state or local government benefits. So in this sense, it is absolutely unequal treatment. If we think about the low incomes of our people, we know that the majority of the people, almost half of the people, are working on a minimum wage, when we think about our pensions and child benefits, I can safely say that half of the Estonian population would definitely be willing to take refugee status. Besides, if they are paid for their lives in two years, then, forgive me, we are talking about the motivation of refugees for work, and all this is completely empty. Of course, they will not go to work if they lose these subsidies. This money comes from the budget of the Estonian state, indeed, it comes partly from the budget of the European Union, but the grants are paid for two years, the European Union contribution only covers six months, the rest comes from our pockets. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U316	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U317	At the moment, 500 refugees are costing us EUR 12 to 13 million. If we take into account the principle of family unity, it is clear that these people will come further here. We know that 500 is not a final figure at all. The government refuses to set any limit. The government has.. I have this sad truth.. I have been deceiving both the public and the Riigikogu. At first, he claimed that refugees were not distributed at all, so he started talking about 150 refugees. Today, 500 refugees are spoken, and tomorrow certainly already 5,000 are spoken, which is why the framework agreement on the policy of the European Union in Estonia, which was completed by the government, does not set any ceiling; there is a sentence that was lost in the previous agreement that we did not support quotas. Such a government must under no circumstances be given additional powers to decide on relocation and resettlement. I have also stressed here earlier that this issue is very important for the people and the country of Estonia and will bring us major changes. We can see that the refugee crisis will not end, it will only escalate, but the European Union will do nothing to end it. The question is so important that it must remain the decision of the Riigikogu. We have an immigration quota. Of course, if we take more refugees, we agree with relocation and other things, then the current immigration quota must be reduced or the number of refugees to be relocated and resettled must be limited. I have read in the media a remarkable example from Finland of a Somali refugee bringing 32 children after Finland. He went on vacation every summer in his country and adopted more and more children there. Under international law, all such children can be introduced under the label of family reunification. So the fact that one, two or three family members have now been brought to Estonia gives us no guarantee that the situation will not be different in the future. Let's look at the size of families in the Middle East, the number of children in them. There are ten children in the middle family. So these are such important subjects that they must be dealt with by the Riigikogu and not by the government, which has so far been dimming and spinning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-14_U318	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 81. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting 81 amendments, including 28 October at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 5.22 p.m.
