ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-13_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the third working week of the first plenary session. First of all, I ask who has any drafts or inquiries to hand over. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-13_U2	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Central Party Group, I am handing over the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. The State is able to influence the final price of electricity paid by the consumer through different components. One such component of the final electricity price is the electricity excise duty. According to § 66 (12) of the current Act on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, the rate of excise duty on electricity in Estonia is 4.47 euros per megawatt-hour of electricity. The draft reduces the excise duty on electricity to EUR 1. This is the rate that the European Union provides for, the minimum level of the European Union. Currently, electricity is taxed 4.5 times higher in Estonia. With the European Union's minimum rate, electricity is taxed, for example, by our southern neighbours Latvia and Lithuania, in addition to the countries of the European Union, Romania, the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Spain, Ireland, Luxembourg, Hungary, the Netherlands, Portugal and Croatia. The law would enter into force on 1 January 2016 if adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-13_U3	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-13_U4	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to make an inquiry to the Minister for Rural Affairs regarding the obligation imposed on the rural municipality of Kehtna to keep pigs. A year ago, Rey Seavas OÜ, operating in Raplamaa, in Kehtna rural municipality, was in financial difficulties. The debts increased and the creditor filed for bankruptcy in March this year. It's been processed, it's been appointed bankruptcy administrator, and the decision's on the way. On 30 March, a pig farmer announced that they could no longer feed or care for pigs. Under § 64 (1) and (2) of the Animal Protection Act, the Veterinary and Food Board transferred the endangered pigs to the municipality of Kehtna. Valla lacks the money necessary for the care of pigs and is not responsible for the situation. Three problems can be identified. The municipality is unable to cover such an obligation under its budget in any way. The Food and Veterinary Office has explained that the municipality takes care of the animals in a replacement procedure which, in theory, ensures that the costs incurred can be recovered from the company, namely that the money cannot be given directly to them because it is not known where it will come next. There is no procedure for applying for state budget compensation under the law and no state budget resources are planned for this purpose. As a result, we are going to ask the Minister the following questions. How is §64 (1) and (2) of the Animal Protection Act to be amended so that all responsibility for maintaining such a large animal farm does not fall on a municipality which lacks the means to resolve the situation? What steps will be taken to support the municipality in its request to receive support from the reserve of the Government of the Republic or from any other source to cover the costs of replacement execution?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-13_U5	Dear Külliki Hatter, the time to hand over an inquiry must fit in two minutes! I think everyone's already figured out who the question is and what it's about. Now we could discuss an inquiry. When a question is answered, questions can be asked again.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-13_U6	Right. I'll just say one more comment. It would be nice if it were answered more quickly than within the 20 working days foreseen by the current regime. The problem is serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-13_U7	I've adopted a bill. The Bureau shall decide on this procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. Where an enquiry complies with the requirements of the Home and Working Procedures Act, it shall be sent to the addressee. Now we have reports of a vigilante's initiative. After the end of the session, the Estonian-Hungarian Parliamentary Group, convened by Mailis Reps, and the Estonian-Armenia Parliamentary Group, convened by Mati Raidma, will meet again in this very hall. The following support groups are also set up: the Support Group for Young Farmers, convened by Martin Repinski; the Support Group for Livestock, convened by Martin Repinski; the Support Group for Mulgimaa, convened by Helir-Valdor Seeder; the Support Group for Traditional Family Protection, convened by Martin Helme; the Support Group for Pärnumaa, convened by Kadri Simson; the Support Group for Järva and Viljandi County, convened by Kersti Sarapuu. Now, please, let's do the presence check! There are 90 members of the Riigikogu, missing 11. Honourable Riigikogu! In wishing all the leaders of the Commission elected today and all the members of the Commission, the Bureau sincerely believes that the agenda for the next plenary working week is more meaningful than that of this week. Nevertheless, we also need to confirm the agenda for this week. I shall put to the vote the adoption of the weekly agenda. Please take a stand and vote. The draft agenda was approved by 80 members of the Riigikogu, one against and five abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-13_U8	Followed by a free microphone according to the approved agenda. Please register for performance after the hammer kick! Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-13_U9	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Maybe after this speech, my own party will hate me, but I can't help it. I would like to express my thanks to the Reform Party, for three whole reasons. The first reason I am doing this is that a few months before the Riigikogu elections, the Reform Party opened its office in Narva. For this purpose the room was rented on the third floor of Geneva Centre. Thank you very much. As a result, the narcs realized that the Reform Party loved them too. The evil languages say that when the opening took place, which was very widely reported in the media, the front number of the Reform Party took an apology from the pocket for tautology! A handkerchief and said that it was given to him in Tallinn, saying that with this towel he would wipe the tears of the unfortunate weeping narvas. This towel turned out to be a big poster with the colors and logo of the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-13_U10	One moment, please, Mikhail! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu, Honourable MPs! The support groups had to be formed after the sitting was closed, not during the sitting. Please calm down! You are currently interfering with the performance of MP Mikhail Stalnukhin. Please continue, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-13_U11	Yes, but, Mr President, you owe me a minute now. This poster was immediately hung under the window on the third floor of Geneva Centre, and the whole city was told very thoroughly that the Reform Party has now made a nest in Narva. Another tribute to the Reform Party is that a few weeks after the Riigikogu elections he stopped renting office space, closed the office and left the third floor of Geneva Centre. Thanks for that, too, because now the narcs know, figuratively speaking, that the love of the Reform Party for them is like a cactus: it thrives once in four years and it's like a butterfly's life that lasts 12 weeks at most. In order to express my gratitude for the third reason, I call on the French literary classic Guy de Maupassanti to help me. From his books, we know that if a red lantern burns above the door of a house, it means that you can find whores in that house. More importantly, if the whorehouse moves away, he'll take the red lantern with him. This is more important, isn't it? The point is that the third tribute comes as an advance, the esteemed Reform Party. You don't pay rent. You closed the office. Now, as honest people on the third floor, I almost had to tell you to take down the red lantern and take it away. So the third tribute is more of an advance. Thanks again! Both I and all the other inhabitants of Narva had the pleasure of working with you. In four years' time, we'll be waiting for you in our area for another 12 weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-13_U12	There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 3.12.
