ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 8th working week. The referral of drafts and enquiries begins. Please, representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching today a draft law amending the Private School Act. Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Education and Science, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U3	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes this in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu are present, 19 is missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U4	There are three items on today's agenda. Before we go to the first item, I will briefly present the procedure. First of all, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas is a presentation that lasts up to 40 minutes. Next comes a presentation by Kalle Palling, Chairman of the European Union Affairs Committee, which will last up to 20 minutes. Then there are questions; a member of the Riigikogu can ask any rapporteur an oral question. Representatives of the political groups will be able to participate in the negotiations. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now go to the first item. An overview of the activities of the Government of the Republic in the implementation of European Union policy is under discussion. The rapporteur is Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable ambassadors! Europe will not bring me before the Riigikogu for the first time this year. Europe was at the heart of both the debate on the foundations of government formation and the presentation of a summer political statement. For the last six months, we have worked in close cooperation with the Riigikogu and stakeholders on 'Estonia's European Union Policy 2015 just 2019'. Although formally this is a government document, it is always the custom of Estonia to look for the largest possible joint role in European affairs and to represent Estonia with the joint mandate of the government and parliament. To be honest, this has also been one of the main foundations of our success to date. As a result of this document, we hope to develop more detailed views on some 70 of our own initiatives, which I intend to report to you every year. I recall that one of the priorities of the current government is Estonia's successful presidency in the first half of 2018. As a result of this document, I would like to address some important keywords and areas. Good Riigikogu! We are putting ourselves in the future for a moment and looking back together from there to 2015. This year is likely to be remembered above all by security concerns: mainly wars and violence in Europe's neighbourhood, but also within Europe, resulting in uncertainty and refugee flows, as well as terrorist acts in Paris and elsewhere in Europe and in our neighbourhood. Both the terrorist attacks last Friday night and the attack at the beginning of the year on the editorship of satirist magazine Charlie Hebdo are equally disgusting attacks on our common democratic principles and way of life. Our best possible answer is to hold on to our values and, above all, to remain ourselves, not to become like the attackers. These are values whose symbol and example has been France for many years. In 1789 the Declaration of Human and Civil Rights of the Constituent Assembly of France highlighted the general humanistic principles of Enlightenment and distinguished them from the form of state and religion. This foundation is based on the foundations of Western society, as well as the basic acts of the European Union and the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. ISIS is the unhumane and barbaric opposite of this concept. That is why we are all French today, one for all and all for one. We will do our utmost to defeat religious extremism, terrorism and hatred. Security is not in our minds just because of the recent terrorist attacks. There is still a war in Europe, and the security environment has therefore changed dramatically for a long time, unfortunately. The main yardstick for the success of each foreign policy is, above all, the effectiveness of the policy in the immediate neighbourhood. True, it is not possible to impose on anyone their own ideas and values. At the same time, all countries must be free to choose their own way of life, as well as allies. The European and European way of life is no threat to anyone. War and aggression are not instruments of international law; injustice cannot be born right. Therefore, the Minsk II agreements must be fulfilled until the last letter, i.e. when the Ukrainian border guard, rather than the foreign power or its extension, is at its full extent at the Ukrainian border. And there can be no trade in terms of meeting the conditions elsewhere, cooperation elsewhere does not mean concessions for Europe in the neighbourhood. The implementation of the Minsk agreements does not, however, lead to a final settlement of justice and justice, which is merely a partial restoration of the former situation. The damage to war remains, our eyes are open, and Europe must draw conclusions from it. A common foreign policy, including a sanction policy, must be patient and consistent and, if necessary, must also respond to escalation. The success of the neighbourhood policy and the unenchanted assessment of the security situation must become the cornerstones of the European Union's foreign and security strategy, which will be completed next year, and will be and remain a priority for Estonia. While the European Union's Southern Partnership aims at a broad partnership and cooperation, the Eastern Partnership also has a European perspective. Our value offer to our neighbours must also include the progressive sharing of European freedoms with neighbouring countries, such as labour, goods, services, capital, as well as the free movement of data, as are currently shared by some countries that do not belong to the European Union. For this to happen, the 2016 visa liberalisation and free trade agreements with Georgia and Ukraine must be the keywords. Honourable Riigikogu! The main issue of this and probably next year, and even existential in many ways for Europe, is mainly to resolve the refugee crisis that has been amplified after the Syrian civil war. As a result of the terrorist attacks in Paris, I consider it necessary to say that the direct association of war refugees with terrorism is arbitrary. Today, we have clear data on terrorists, most of whom are also possible that all of them were French citizens. I repeat what Bishop Philippe Jourdan said that what is happening in the heart of terrorists is hatred and has no connection with religion or nationality. The vacuum of power in the failing countries has led terrorist organisations and radical religious organisations, such as Al Shabaab, Al Qaeda and ISIS, to germinate. They do not choose targets or promoters in their brutality and are one of the reasons why people leave their homes. If terrorists misuse the asylum system or any other system, we need to look at how to avoid such situations and create a functioning system, rather than generalising and blaming all refugees. However, I am also in full agreement with the President-in-Office of the Council, Donald Tusk: our primary task and responsibility as European leaders are, above all, the security and protection of Europe. Our first task is to gain control of what is happening. We should not close the door to those in need, but we must improve the registration of persons arriving in Europe and also in Estonia and better identify their need for assistance. The European asylum system needs to be reviewed not only in terms of solidarity and burden sharing, but also from the point of view of law enforcement and internal security. One way is to re-introduce a fast-track border procedure to identify and reject unjustified applications without delay. Common and interoperable systems for ex ante controls, border crossings, stays and Passenger Name Record (PNR) should be established as a matter of urgency. We were aware of the need to mitigate possible security risks right at the start of the discussions and offered a procedural team consisting of our various authorities to support the implementation of the European Union resettlement schemes. The mechanisms for the relocation of refugees, which have not yet been properly launched in the southern countries of the European Union, are not and cannot be a global solution to the migration crisis. These are essential, above all, to ensure that European freedoms also operate in the face of a crisis and are intended to support the countries most affected by the crisis. That is why I said last week, when Sweden restored internal border controls, that we should take a favourable view of Sweden's request to relocate refugees from there within the framework of the obligations already in place. This is not only because Sweden is a very close country to us, but also because the situation at the external borders has not yet been brought under control and there have been major difficulties in launching the relocation of people from the South. I have always believed that we must learn from the crisis and take advantage of the opportunities for change. One of them is the idea of creating a European Border Guard. This cannot be done in the short term, but the current situation shows that we need to consider a greater concentration of opportunities and resources, which in the future would only work on the basis of the European Union's central budget. Although Estonia has been able to contribute 10% of the border guard force to European operations in 2015 alone, such a solution is not sustainable in the long term. If the sovereign right to border surveillance also means a lack of control, it will inevitably result that soon we will no longer have these freedoms and a Europe without internal borders, without which today's young people will not even imagine Europe. No freedom is self-evident, and the surveillance of external borders is a public service provided by all external borders countries to all other Member States. This is also one of the reasons why we are establishing the eastern border of the European Union, guarded by modern and modern technology. Restoring internal border controls is also a consequence of the lack of a comprehensive solution or its weakness, and this is an area where more Europe is inevitably needed. Dear Riigikogu! Focusing on today, however, we must not forget the euro area either. I talked about it last time, turning to this hall, when the bell of the crisis has already created a full hour. Greece's withdrawal from the euro would not have meant the end of the euro area, but so far no one has been able to demonstrate convincingly how the expulsion, withdrawal or suspension of membership of this country would have made matters better either in Greece or in the euro area as a whole. How convincing would this be for the members of the euro area or for the market? It's good that we've come to an agreement. I believe that this agreement is also enforceable. It is in all our interests that this agreement be fully implemented. We need to strengthen the understanding that the membership of all members of the euro area is unwavering. The agreement does not mean that I agree with the quite irresponsible and costly political act that preceded it. We have consistently stood for the stability orientation and market pressure of the euro area to continue. This is why the creation of a banking union with a deposit guarantee system and a resolution fund must be completed, capital markets union established and the global competitiveness of euro area countries strengthened. Given the experience of the crisis, in future we should include in our toolbox insolvency proceedings for euro area members based on clear rules. This would allow for future debt restructuring of euro area members within the euro area and would give a clear signal to market participants for investment decisions, both for private and open sector investors. Alongside the new initiatives of the Monetary Union, however, it is very important to keep a stability-oriented course, implement decisions and create opportunities to support growth and investment. Honourable Riigikogu! The situation in European agriculture has also been exceptionally turbulence. The sharp decline in farmers' incomes and the profits of the dairy industry show, among other things, the problems within the supply chain. The European Union's agricultural policy has best justified itself in crisis situations. In the autumn, the European Union allocated an aid package of some EUR 500 million mainly to help dairy farmers. It complements the EUR 42 billion paid out of the European Union budget each year in the form of direct payments. This year, the state of Estonia added state budget funds for nearly 10 million euros to European Union grants as far as possible. Together with the European Union's contribution, exceptional subsidies have been allocated to the agricultural sector this year for EUR 33 million. Grants are primarily intended for structural changes. It is likely that already in December this year the European Union will enter into force an implementing decision creating the flexibility we want to relocate live pigs within the trade restricted zones. It is clear that neither the European Union nor the country has bottomless pockets. The sector itself must also contribute and find solutions; bottlenecks can be foreseen. Whether this is the case, for example, with the search for new markets, the development of joint action or the creation of own-initiative crisis management instruments. We have called for, and also received, the help of the European Union. But why, in a difficult situation within the supply chain, are we unable to show solidarity with our partners here in Estonia and today? If there is no farmer, there is no production or product to sell, process or export. Consumers should take note of this and make an informed choice in front of the counter. I would also like to thank all the companies that have taken a flexible and understanding approach to the responsibilities of farmers. In suming up the issue of crises, I would like to stress that European cooperation, unity and solidarity help Estonia, but also all the other Member States. There is no European policy whose basic logic would not include both European freedoms and the idea of solidarity, at least with milk. Europe is not a friend but a good weather, just as Estonia is not. Although European solidarity also works in Estonia's favour, I would like to stress that Estonia is not and does not want to be a selfish state. Estonia wants to be not only a more successful country, but also a good country that wants to help others. Let us, for example, be the significant activity of our defence forces in geographically remote areas such as Mali, the Central African Republic or Lebanon. This ambition is part of European solidarity, part of its sense of family cohesion. This is also why the government's European Union policy starts with the words that trust and solidarity are the cornerstones of the European Union's common values and cooperation. I share the thought expressed by Jean-Claude Juncker in his annual speech that we need more Europe in this Europe and more Union in this Union. Honourable Riigikogu! We have noted in the coalition agreement that the Estonian Presidency places emphasis on the development of the single market and the digital internal market, energy policy and neighbourhood and foreign policy. I spoke about the latter at the beginning of the speech, and now I will touch on two other issues with a few words. I have said that, as a country on the margins of the European Union, energy, transport and communication links and the development of the internal market in this area are of particular importance to us. Despite the criticism, an agreement with a Finnish colleague was essential so that we could come to a common understanding of the possibilities of building a gas pipeline connection Balticconnector and a LNG terminal. Fortunately, the new Finnish Government has respected this gentlemen's agreement, and recently we made a joint request to the European Commission to build a gas pipeline linking Estonia and Finland, following exactly what we agreed. We have jointly decided to bring this matter to an end in order to provide the Community with the necessary support from the European Union. Finland's withdrawal from the gas terminal also opens up the possibility for Estonian entrepreneurs to compete in the development of the regional gas terminal. I am saying that if we had been stubbornly chopping 'all or nothing' in style, we would still be where we were today, a year ago, without a prudent agreement. In the electricity market, we still have the strategic objective of decoupling the Baltic electricity system from the Northwest Russian band over the next decade. Realising the plan will not happen without cooperation, especially between the Baltic States. However, the most important development in energy in the short term is the achievement of a global and binding climate agreement in Paris. Despite our emphasis on using and deserving local resources, European climate policy is in line with the far-reaching aspirations of Estonia's energy policy. Honourable Riigikogu! Right now and now, the world's largest tourist accommodation company is a company that does not have any hotels, and the largest taxi company in the world is a company that does not have any taxis. It is no longer worth talking about having books, videos or records. Developments amplified by information technology have been so rapid that it is difficult for us to even imagine what the coming years could bring about in the development of the information society. In any case, it seems that future generations no longer hold sacred the principle of winning the one who has the most things when he dies. According to PricewaterhouseCoopers, the potential value of the five main sectors of the collaborative economy could reach EUR 300 billion in 2025. By 2035 there may already be 1 billion digital nomads in the world who are more attracted to e-residency and collaborative economy types than to global mobility and lifestyles. It is up to us to provide e-solutions that work for them. Europe must embrace the digital revolution, and Estonia wants to be at the forefront of these changes without any doubt. Fortunately, development in the European Digital Single Market is promising and obvious. The abolition of data roaming charges since mid-2017 is strongly supporting the expansion of a cross-border digital economy in Europe that is moving to mobile devices. The European Digital Internal Market strategy presented by Andrus Ansip in May of this year contains ambitious plans and also pleasantly many Estonian digital fingerprints, which is why we hope that its main proposals will be adopted at the latest during our Presidency. A good third of Estonia's European Union policy is also linked to digital solutions. In addition to implementing this strategy, the European Union should also move towards the free movement of data as the fifth fundamental freedom. The data has already been referred to as the currency of the 21st century and such freedom should allow a person not only to control, but also to use and dispose of the data collected as the owner of the data. In doing so, it should be possible to allow other companies to use the data collected. It should also be possible for data to be used once in both the open and private sectors. Although the realisation of the idea needs to be further explored, the exercise of this freedom would also have a potentially significant economic impact on emerging small and start-ups. Further economic recovery could also arise from the free movement of legal persons through digital solutions. This would be the case if, instead of the cumbersome procedures already in place in another Member State, only a transferable entry in the register could be sufficient. If, in turn, mutual recognition of administrative decisions and mutual trust at European Union level were to be supported, rights, authorisations and licences acquired in one Member State could also operate in another Member State. This would make cross-border business considerably easier and would also help bring the necessary external competition and efficiency to the opening sector. Dear Riigikogu! Good ambassadors! Unlike the British, whose relations with the continent have been quite special all along the way, Estonia has been led by Gustav Suits in our European applications in a noble and youthful attempt to 'Let us be Estonians, but let us also become Europeans! '. Today, no one doubts that we are Europeans, but Europeanism as an aspiration and as a European has long existed in us. We know what it means to live without this ambition. This week's talks on the proposals tabled by David Cameron mainly concern the relations of the United Kingdom with the European Union and are in preparation for the 'British referendum' that must take place before the end of 2017. I have repeatedly spoken to the British Prime Minister, David Cameron, and I will also tell you that I believe that it is possible to reach an agreement on the basis of his proposals. Estonia's relations with the United Kingdom are very strong and its membership is clearly not only in our interests, but also in the interests of other Europeans and the United Kingdom themselves. That's the angle we need to approach the talks. Without the British, the European Union would by no means be what it is now, economically, politically or militaryly. However, the content of the talks is based on the fact that the European Union's internal market and fundamental freedoms are a balanced whole with the free movement of persons. We share the British wish to strengthen the role of national parliaments, but we do not only see it as the role of a football judge who shares red cards, but we consider that national parliaments, among others the Riigikogu, could show initiative together, and they could also have the right to use a green card in addition to using a red card. I believe that in order to improve the direct participation of the European Union in decision-making processes, the Riigikogu could take a critical look at its own rules of procedure. However, the relationship that the British seek in their membership relationship with the European Union is not the relationship in which Estonia envisages the future of the European Union and about itself in it. We see the European Union as a response to potential problems and want to be among the leaders in the development of the European Union. We are ready to strengthen institutions and competences and to cooperate in new areas. As members of the euro area and Schengen, we are already in a completely different situation today. As a result, we are certainly an open member and do not want the political division of the European Union, because the main strength of the European Union lies in its unity. Finally, but not least, I would like to point out that, apart from a lot of similar views and attitudes, we are bound together with the British Presidency. I repeat that one of the main tasks of this government is the successful Estonian Presidency in the first half of 2018. Together with the framework document on Estonian European Union policy before you, which is one of the bases for planning the contents of the Presidency, the renewed agenda of the Presidency will also go to the government at the end of November, which will form the basis for the Presidency's organisational planning. This agenda will remain the last in this form, and the political role of the government in the preparations will be even stronger and more immediate in the future. However, when it comes to concrete preparations, we have now selected over 400 government and parliamentary officials, as well as private sector staff, who have a key role to play in the leadership of working groups and in the leadership of the Presidency. A competent and European official body is the main thing that Estonia will have to keep immediately from this period. Next year we will send to Brussels a large part of the officials who are in charge of the Presidency in 2018. In addition to being faster at the time of the end of the legislative work, we must be prepared to work with all the topics and learn from the years of crisis to be prepared for both unexpected and serious crises. Although the main difficulty of preparation in the coming years will be the government, the Riigikogu will also play a very important role in the success of the Presidency, and not only from the perspective of promoting parliamentary diplomacy. First of all, I am thinking, of course, of a budget that we have planned from the experience of the other presidencies to the size of EUR 74 million for all years. But we also need the support of the Riigikogu in order to make some changes to the Civil Service Act, which would allow more flexibility in the working time and motivation of the officials involved in the Presidency during this tense period. I therefore express my hope that the Riigikogu will fully support the substantive and organisational preparation and conduct of the Presidency. I hope very, very good members of the Riigikogu, for your comprehensive, efficient and professional cooperation over the next few years. There are 775 days left until the Presidency, full of hard work. Together, we will make Estonia bigger! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U6	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have a lot of questions. My colleague Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U7	Thank you! Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for a good and thorough report. In the context of the terrorist attacks that took place last week in Paris, there has been an increasing debate on possible changes to the Schengen visa area. How realistic do you think that fundamental changes need to be made in the Schengen area? Have you discussed with your colleagues what the impact of changing the Schengen visa area on the Estonian economy and the wider European economy could be?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U8	Thank you. We certainly have reason to make efforts to ensure that the external border of Schengen should, that there are strong controls at borders and that solutions work. However, as a European, I am very much opposed to the idea of permanently re-establishing internal borders in the Schengen area. As Estonians, as residents of Estonia, we would have a great deal to lose if Europe were once again a Europe with internal borders. The fact that we are able to get from Tallinn without showing the document, without long border queues, which, I believe, both of us and everyone else in this Chamber still remember, to move up to Lisbon, is very, very important value. This is not only a matter of comfort for us as passengers, but also a matter of trade and economic relations. More broadly, this is a question of whether we are one space as Europe or whether each one is surrounded by its own borders. I sincerely hope that we will be able to find solutions to crises in Europe together without building boundaries between each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U9	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U10	Prime Minister! It was very sympathetic that in your presentation you recalled the first constitution in France, which 150 years later became the basis for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We are facing an administrative reform here in our own country, but I feel that Europe is also facing it. Indeed, many indigenous peoples in Europe want to have their own country. I call Catalans, Scots, Flemishes, and I don't know who else wants it. We still have to rejuvenate this goddess, Europe, so that the robbers from the antiquity don't take her away from us. It will soon be our Presidency. How do you feel about whether our government and politicians are ready to discuss how to keep Europe together and at the same time give indigenous peoples more self-determination?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U11	Thank you. Of course, we are always ready for discussions on how to keep Europe together. But all the countries of the European Union are the rule of law, and in all the countries of the European Union, the issues you raise can also be resolved independently, on the basis of the constitution of each country.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U12	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I think that one of the main issues in the eyes of the wider public in the European Union is which is the primary issue, whether the distribution of refugees under the quota system or the protection of Europe's southern borders. It seems to me that with this latter, the Union as a whole and the Member States in the South have failed in the best way. The emphasis was clearly shifted to the quota system in the spring. Maybe it started off the wrong way. As regards the Schengen visa system and the need to protect internal borders, I say that it is unpleasant, yes, to go back. We certainly don't want to go back permanently. But what about the temporary preparedness and needs of individual countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U14	Thank you. In fact, neither of the questions you have referred to is a primary one. The primary issue is the need to contribute to resolving crises. If we lock up Europe in front of those in need, it will not improve their situation an ounce, rather it will make it worse. Europe's most important task is to contribute to conflict resolution in Syria and North Africa. It is our immediate responsibility to help refugees get a normal life in the countries they have reached first, either in Turkey, Lebanon or Jordan. I have repeatedly said that we must make an effort to provide financial support to these countries so that, on the one hand, refugees do not have to take a life-threatening journey to Europe, but, on the other hand, so that European taxpayers' funds can be used more rationally. We shouldn't be ashamed to say it. This way, we can help more. I proposed this to the President of the European Commission during the summer. I also spoke to him on the phone when we were preparing for the Council. It was a very positive surprise to me that very many European leaders agreed. Today, this idea has already come true in practice as the first stages. We have made specific decisions in the Council to allocate funds to the neighbouring countries of Syria. I hope that within this month it will be possible to meet with the leaders of the European Union and the President or Prime Minister of Turkey and agree on a joint action plan on how to help refugees in Turkey. If we can agree that the European Union will provide financial support to the two million people who have found their first safe haven in Turkey, this will directly reduce the migratory pressure on Europe. Addressing problems in this way is much more effective than redistributing people or building fences on the external borders. The fences alone don't solve the problems, they just push them away.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U15	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, thank you once again for a comprehensive overview of our activities in the implementation of European Union policy. I am pleased that at the beginning of your speech you focused specifically on security issues. Understandably, what happened in Paris was the same alarm clock for all of Europe on the threat of Islamic extremism as Russia's aggression in Ukraine last year on Russia's aggressive policy. It is certainly vital to give a well-targeted response to what took place in Paris, including at Community level. What could Estonia and, more generally, the European Union do to disrupt the capabilities of the Islamic State, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U17	Thank you. As the Secretary of Defense and I both said yesterday, we are prepared to contribute. We have a concrete plan that takes account of the mandate already announced on the continuation of the training mission. But I certainly do not rule out that if the Allies ask us for additional help, our role could also be greater. It is clear that we cannot help in air strikes, but if the next steps should take place, which you yourself have referred to in today's papers, in principle, this in Parliament should, of course, require your mandate to be prepared to discuss this issue very seriously. It is Estonia's custom to help its allies, and we are also involved in creating security in those areas that are sometimes very far away from us. This is very helpful, and this support is not only political, but has been very, very substantial in many important missions. The Estonian Defence Forces are internationally known as a very professional army. I have heard very positive words from my colleagues when our countries have jointly participated in the missions. So if our allies need help and support, we must be prepared to offer it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U18	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U19	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! My question relates to the previous question. Article 42 (7) of the Treaty on European Union states that if one Member State falls victim to armed assault on its territory, the other Member States are obliged to provide it with assistance by all means available to them in accordance with Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations. Some analysts have estimated that the President of France, Hollande, may, for the first time in the history of the European Union, ask for this clause to be opened. How likely do you think it is, and how does Estonia feel about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U20	Thank you. It is difficult for me to say at the moment whether the French President wants solidarity in this form or under other clauses. But as I said in response to Marko Mihkelson, we are prepared to help in any case. We are prepared to stand by our allies, just as they are willing to stand by our side. Isn't it profoundly symbolic that the slogan 'One for all and all for one! ' Is it precisely the French author that it came from Musketeers?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U21	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Prime Minister! You mentioned that it is crucial for Tallinn to be able to travel to Lisbon without a passport. I think that, in the context of today, the problem is not that we have to carry a passport, but that we already need a piece of vest when travelling in Europe. I'd prefer a passport. But you also mentioned that the Estonian Government is open to further integration in the European Union. I would point out that the Estonian Supreme Court also said when he discussed the ESM case that the mandate obtained from the people in the 2003 referendum was exhausted in terms of progressive integration and a new mandate was needed. The Estonian people have never given a mandate for the kind of integration that is already happening. When have you asked for this additional mandate, or are you going to ask for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U22	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U23	I am ready to apply for a mandate in all parliamentary elections, including by saying that we are part of Europe and that Europeanism is part of us. I fully understand if you go to the parliamentary elections asking for a different mandate. In my opinion, belonging to Europe is not the issue on which we are now making a choice. That's the choice we've made, and that's the only choice we can think of. At the beginning of the 1990s, Estonia had a very clear conviction that we want to step as far away from the totalitarian union as possible with our straight backs and that we want to be part of a unified space of values between the peoples of Europe and European values. If we are part of Europe, it will be beneficial in both ways. It's good for our people, of course it's good for our country. We know that Europe, together with NATO, is our strongest security guarantee. But, of course, it will also benefit Europe. I would argue that since the European Union expanded in 2004 and later, it has only won. Therefore, I will not hesitate to say for a moment when I go to the elections to ask for a mandate that, yes, I am in favour of Europe, I am an pro-European politician and I intend to continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U24	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U25	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! You and a number of other government representatives have promised to consider participating in anti-Islamic warfare. If this really happens, Estonia will automatically become a terrorist target. Have you developed adequate security measures for Estonia? If so, what measures are planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U26	Thank you. I recall that Estonia, along with its allies, has participated in the fight against terrorist organisations in the past. Surely we shouldn't be scared back because we're scared. If we say we're retreating from our values because we're scared, then terrorism has won. We are not going to give this victory to terrorists, no way. As far as Estonia's internal security is concerned, we will monitor very closely the level of danger in Estonia. Estonian authorities are very professional. We have an assessment that there is no need to raise the level of danger now, but we can never be too careful. Therefore, in recent days, after these terrible terrorist attacks in Paris, additional preventive measures have been taken in Estonia so that the people of Estonia can feel safe.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U27	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U28	Thank you very much. Thank you to the Prime Minister for a thorough review of the European Union's policy. My question concerns the free movement of persons. Of the four fundamental freedoms of the European Union, this is the kind of freedom on which the European Union is based and which is its so-called raison d'être. David Cameron has actually proposed that the free movement of persons be hindered. What is your comment, as someone who knows him well and has met him repeatedly, on such a deterrent?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U29	Thank you. You're right, David Cameron and I know each other very well. We are also sitting side by side in the Council, and we have had very much talk on these issues in a very long time. In my opinion, David Cameron does not want to restrict the free movement of people. His concern is driven by the fact that, unlike many or almost all other European countries, Britain is a country with a growing population. Each year, on average, 300,000 people live in Britain more than they leave, and this naturally creates certain tensions in society. David Cameron's solution is not to close the border or necessarily to apply quotas, but to find a reasonable solution for people who move to Britain to do so in the same way as the Estonians who are going to live there. I have also discussed this issue several times with the Estonian community and with the Estonian ambassadors, who have always said that Estonians are going to Britain to study or work there. This is the kind of free movement that the British Government does not oppose at all. We both agree that it enriches Britain and, of course, it enriches the careers of people who move from one country to another and improves their chances. However, the question has arisen in Britain about the extent to which they are able to pay social benefits immediately after people arrive in the country. The payment of grants has also been treated as one of the components of the free movement of persons, but this should not be a matter for which we should be somehow closed. I believe that the core of the free movement of people is that if a person wants to live in any European country, either for professional self-realization, to improve educational opportunities or also for family reasons, it must be possible. However, when people move from one country to another simply to receive higher benefits, it is clear that this cannot be the only or main reason for moving to another country, and this system is obviously not sustainable either. I believe that we can find a reasonable compromise. The people of Estonia will certainly not lose it; their interest is that it will be possible to live, learn and work in Britain in the future. Our people will definitely go there, not because of social benefits, but because of self-realisation and career opportunities. I really hope that Britain will remain a member of the European Union. When David Cameron speaks in the deliberations of the Council, it is often the feeling that he is saying precisely the things that we want to say. It feels good.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U30	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister! I very much liked the fact that you did not watch, at a time when the whole world's eyes are focused on the Paris disaster, the European Union's policy only in the light of this event, but you presented longer timelines and broader principles. But I want to get even more prosaic and ask a question from a completely different side of European policy. We have all looked at Europe with a certain irony and resentment, as you have just described, as a wallet being given without receiving anything in return. Recently, there have been critical notes about our science budget. It has been said that it has also happened in Estonia that the money received for the restructuring of science has been used to patch up the budget so that it can get its state money out of this area. I can't explain any longer, but there are a lot of dangers here that, in 2020, when the euro money ends, science will have a disaster. Are you willing to at least keep an eye on this thing so that this doesn't happen for God's sake?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U32	Thank you. The short answer is yes, I am. But if you specify a little, not very much, and not at all willing to argue against it, I think that this is the right theme setting, although it is perhaps not directly related to European Union policy, but it is nevertheless very important to Estonian society, then we have not so much reduced the allocation of the Estonian state to science, as the allocation of the Estonian state has perhaps not increased at an adequate pace and according to our wishes. This is why the volatility of the European Union's contributions, which has also been due to the change in the budget period, has been very noticeable. It is certainly the case that we must gradually move in the coming years to ensure that the funding of Estonian science is sustainable, not only through the support of the European Union's resources, but through the joint financing of the state budget and the European Union's resources. Even if Estonia reaches this magical 75% of the European Union's standard of living, which we will certainly reach, it will not run out of EU funds. Science is funded everywhere in Europe. But it is clear that we must be prepared to contribute more ourselves. This objective, which we have stated, of 1% of GDP, remains important to us. We must work together to actually achieve this, because so far we have not yet reached it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U33	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U34	Good manager! Prime Minister! As a member of the Riigikogu, I constantly see how we have to hold and continue to serve in style. ' transpose the Euro Directives. The recent letter by the British Prime Minister Cameron really refreshed the soul, as he recommended that national parliaments stand up. But my question is much more rural. You were talking about how well you support farmers. In the meantime, I called Avo Sama Knight, the farmer for a year, and I asked him how he felt about it. He said to tell you not to be dim. What you're talking about isn't top-up. Your government has not supported farmers with top-up this year and will not do so next year. Why don't you tell the farmers to chew the grass with their cows? The government obviously has other priorities, money can be put in national airlines.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U35	Thank you. First of all, about the national airline. It is essential that we be able to fly directly from Estonia to many places, and I certainly would not question this decision. Nor do I agree with the assessment that what Jaroslav Hashek wrote long before the creation of the European Union or today's Europe would still be topical or relevant in the European Union. It does, however, describe a very different time and a completely different structure. As far as crisis measures are concerned, I never mentioned the term top-up, but we can also talk about it. During this year, we have decided to allocate several tens of million euros to farmers from both European and Estonian public funds, and we have made sure that the financial allocations go as far as possible to sectors in crisis, not to all agricultural sectors, 'over'. It's been a conscious choice. It is probably useful to know, and your conversation partner, to whom you referred, certainly well knows that most of the top-up money that can be paid would go to cereal farming, not to pig farming, and most of that money could not be used to support milk production. Our interest has been to support pig farming and milk production. These are sectors that are really in trouble, especially pig farming in zone three. The cultivation of cereals is, of course, also an important sector, but there is also a very high profit earned this year by your conversation partner. It is said that this year has been the most successful, if not the most successful year of all time in Estonia. If we think that our shared responsibility in the government and in Parliament is to use every taxpayer's euro as efficiently as possible, then I think that what the government has done and which I hope the Riigikogu will approve is that the funds will be directed precisely for crisis measures and those sectors where there is a crisis, not just a little bit for all farmers, is necessary and will help the sector most. As I emphasised, the impact of emergency crisis subsidies is far greater than that of emergency crisis grants, whether they come from the budget of Europe or the Estonian state, and whether they come from the budget of the European or Estonian state has what decisions the processors are making. If a sector which is in crisis and where there is an oversupply of raw materials does not find support and understanding from processors, this will certainly make its position more difficult. That is why I think that, if, for example, pig farming is difficult times, all consumers have reason to look carefully at where one or the other product actually comes from, the packaging of which may also have a domestic brand, and to decide whether or not to help the crisis sector. We all have that opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U36	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U37	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! You said that the terrorists in Paris are arbitrary to associate them with war refugees. Indeed, but at the same time, I have never heard of them being associated with war refugees. However, it is a fact that these are immigrants who have received asylum, refugee status and European citizenship, but at the same time there are undoubtedly Islamic extremists. Juncker predicts three million illegal immigrants to Europe next year. In the face of this terrible tragedy, Poland and Latvia made a completely adequate decision not to accept immigrants in the future. How many people in Europe must Islamic terrorists murder so that Estonia takes the same decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U38	Thank you. In my opinion, this question is completely inappropriate. As you said yourself, we cannot identify those people who are fleeing terrorism with those who commit acts of terrorism. Unfortunately, a few years ago, I recall, a terrible act of terrorism or even a series of acts of terrorism was committed not very far from here in Europe, and it was done by a person who had not come out of somewhere. Crimes and terrors don't ask for nationality. I find it totally inappropriate to identify people from one country or another or to recognise one religion or another with extremists. It is just as inappropriate as assigning foreign hatred to all Estonian people. We're not all like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U39	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U40	Thank you, Honourable Vice Speaker. Prime Minister! I would like to mention quickly that it is very difficult to talk about identification or not to identify when 'Allahu Akbar' is shouted during the terrorist attacks! '. There is a very clear connection between religion and religion. But let's go back to European values. You mentioned, in answer to the question of the President of our group, that it is not like to ask for a mandate, because our aim is to integrate into the European Union under the stars of European values, European culture. So the European Union equals Europe and vice versa. Are countries such as Switzerland and Norway outside the European cultural space and values? Are Poland, Hungary and also Latvia, which have set a border on the implementation of refugee quotas, out of European values? In your opinion, did the Estonian become a European only in 2004?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U41	Thank you. Both Switzerland and Norway are certainly part of the European cultural space. By supporting many of the policies that you are opposed to at all costs, they have shown that they think very Europeanly. Estonia has been part of Europe for a very long time; it belonged to Europe even before Gustav Suits said those very famous words. But we have never been as Europe as we are now. We are talking about all important decisions in Europe. We are helping shape Europe. We are part of an integrated and united Europe where countries help each other where necessary. When we think about our history, we realise that it is not quite by chance that one of the principles of Estonian foreign policy has been 'Never again alone'. Although Europe is no foreign matter to us, Europe is us, it is also worth remembering in the European Union which decisions we can best ensure that we are not alone when we need help. It is fundamentally unacceptable to me that we must be those who can only ask in one organisation or in another, or in the Union. Estonians are very dignified people. We can help ourselves if our allies need it. If you think otherwise, I will say that Estonia, fortunately, has a very high value for freedom of expression, and this is a very European value.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U42	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U43	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! I happen to have received a call from one of the most well-known dairy producers in Estonia before the hearing, who is also your party partner. He was very angry with government policy. It seems to me that the Estonian Government does not know anything about the European Union's common agricultural policy or that it does not want to implement it. You spoke briefly about the crisis and crisis aid, but crisis aid is crisis aid, it is not aid that increases the competitiveness of the company. Estonian dairy producers are among the first five in the European Union, but unfortunately three hundred and four must close their doors to a dairy farm and a few thousand people will lose their jobs. At the same time, it is known that the consumption of dairy products is increasing on the Asian market. In order to survive the crisis, the Government of the Republic should support its farmer. I'm looking at next year's budget. Only 4.6 million euros of support for farmers from the Estonian state budget could be provided, while the top-up, or transitional, could be 21.5 million euros. Talk and contrast cereal and milk production...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U44	Good colleague, please ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U45	Yeah, I have a question. Why is the government of the Republic of Estonia not pursuing the European Union's agricultural policy and using these opportunities to improve the competitiveness of its farmers?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U46	Thank you. I answered Peter Ernits on this subject and I will explain it to you again. Of this EUR 21 million, most must go to support other sectors, not dairy farmers and pig farmers. However, in times of crisis, we support precisely those sectors that need support most. I fully agree that it is not only sustainable to think about national direct payments and more and more taxpayers' money to enable businesses to exist, but also to deal with the next steps, the long-term steps. One of them is quite certainly that we must help Estonian dairy producers to access foreign markets. Your colleague from the Riigikogu, Anne Sulling, made an effort in this direction as Minister of Enterprise. After all, rehearsal lots have actually reached Japan. Similarly, I see the very strong interest of Estonian producers in the Chinese market. I hope that I will be able to represent the interests of Estonian dairy producers and, more generally, of the entire agricultural sector when I meet the Chinese Minister for Economic Affairs and Prime Minister next week. I also talked to the Chinese Prime Minister about this last year. It would be a big deal if Estonian producers had access to the Chinese market. In addition, in order for us to have more to do with such distant markets, it is necessary to invest in the processing of milk with the support of European Union funds, so that much more cheese can be produced in Estonia, for example. We all understand that there are certain geographical limits to the export of raw milk. In the case of cheese, the win is that its added value is significantly higher, which means that it is possible to make a much higher profit.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U47	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In your comprehensive review, you said that Europe's primary task now is to ensure security and protection. It is difficult, if not impossible, to disagree with this view in view of world development. It is therefore perfectly natural that most of the questions in this Chamber are in this area. My question, however, comes about the economic competitiveness of the European Union. You guys stopped for a while, but still. Europe has been the last century of this continent, where the economy has been better off and people have been able to enjoy its fruits because of a better standard of living. What are the key words for Europe to continue to be the continent with the most advanced economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U49	Thank you. That is a very well-founded question. It is clear that, as a result of crises, we must devote the bulk of today's debate to security issues, but this does not mean that the importance of economic competitiveness has been reduced in any way, rather the opposite. I am very pleased to see that among the priorities of the Jean-Claude Juncker Commission, Estonia's undisputed priority is also to develop and make the European internal market work better. We have not only now, in recent years, but in history always had the religion of trade in goods. We know that in a country where 1.3 million people live, exports are the only sustainable source of growth. We know that Tallinn's Old Town, which is admired by all foreign visitors, is largely built on the revenues of trade. We know that the more we can promote trade in Europe, the more we all have to win. Estonia has certainly taken the lead in services, including digital services. As I said in my speech, the cross-border movement of digital services will certainly earn billions in the coming years. I am pleased to see that several Estonian companies have hit it and made significant progress. However, if you look at the bigger picture, Europe's strategic interest was unfortunately impossible for me to talk about today, but that does not mean that it is less important to have free trade agreements, especially with the United States, which is potentially the biggest partner, but also with other regions, of course. Estonia's own interest is to be the leader here. If Europe as a whole is doing well, we have the most to gain from it. We in the European Union, along with the other Nordic countries and also the British, are very clearly among the supporters of the market economy and free trade. Our voice must certainly sound on these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U50	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! My question, too, is motivated by security, because this issue is really very topical. Answering yesterday's inquiries, Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur said that he was going to a joint meeting of the Ministers of the Interior of the Member States of the European Union on Friday. What message from the Government of the Republic of Estonia, which position or concrete proposal will it take there?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U52	Thank you. As you well know, no minister goes to any European meeting without coordinating the positions of the Riigikogu in the European Union Affairs Committee. Your colleague, Kalle Palling, is sitting a couple of lines away from you and can give you an overview. But more broadly, Estonia's message is certainly that we are ready to contribute to strengthening security in Europe as a whole. One of the issues I have already talked about, which will not be decided on next Friday, but which is still a topic that, from a distant perspective, could reach reality from the desk of interior ministers, is a uniform border guard. This is an issue that can also touch us very seriously, because we are at the external borders of the European Union. Certainly, Estonia's position will continue to be what we have repeatedly confirmed in Parliament that the control of persons at the external borders of the European Union must be strengthened. This should not be done only in words; Estonia has sent very professional police and border guards to assist the Schengen external borders. We sent 25 experts to Slovenia, which is very likely to be the biggest contribution, I dare say, compared to other countries, given the size of our country. I spoke to the Slovenian Prime Minister recently when I met in Malta and also over the phone. He said that the people of Slovenia are sincerely grateful to us. They have a very serious problem, and Estonia found an opportunity in a few days, which took up to the time of its arrival in Slovenia, to help resolve it. My sincere recognition to the Police and Border Guard Board for being able to respond as professionally as the political decision came.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U53	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U54	Prime Minister! It was a very nice talk about how we're going to drive and drive without documents. I can't remember when I got on the plane without showing the document three times, being searched, examined, and not having nail polish, a bottle of water or pampers, etc. I'm afraid if Rail Baltic comes, there'll be barbed wires, lions, gallis machine guns and defense lines. In short, security activities are largely seeming and absurd, because while nail polish is being sought at Tallinn airport, Muslim terrorists live peacefully in the Molenbeek district. Any general can say that if the strategic front is held in such a way that the defense is one strength and the same everywhere, then the front is unprotected. I fear that while we are chasing a bottle of water at Tallinn Airport, Europe will be vulnerable. We're wasting our resources...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U55	Good colleague, please ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U56	This must be decided at Prime Minister level. Is that it? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U57	Well, Mr Gräzin, thank you for a very good question. In itself, all the procedures that you and your nail polish do at Tallinn Airport are based on the common European rules, which also apply in the wider world. These are largely the response to the terrorist attacks that took place in 2001. I certainly do not want to review the measures taken either at Tallinn Airport or at another airport to ensure security. The terrorist attack on the Sinai Peninsula was likely to have been carried out precisely because of insufficient security controls on the aircraft. If these assumptions are confirmed, this will also confirm that we have to deal very seriously with the security of flight passengers. After all, means of transport, including planes and high-speed trains, are places where terrorist acts have been committed. Basically, I agree that we do not want a world where security checks are required everywhere. This isn't the world we'd like to see. But if there is a greater risk in some areas, some means of transport, some places, it would be foolish not to listen to experts. I think it is also very important, for example, to follow closely the security procedures here in the Riigikogu building. Compared to the approach to security a few years ago, the situation in the Riigikogu has improved by now, but you probably know that there is still room for improvement. We should see who the people get in here and how they get in here. Security is something you do not want to be arrogant about, but there are also disadvantages here, as you rightly said, because we still need to focus resources on those places where the danger is greatest.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U58	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U59	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! In fact, Europe has faced difficult problems since 2008 when Georgia was attacked. Last year, Crimea was annexed, as a result of which NATO finally said that, yes, the people of the Baltics were right when they spoke of Russia's threat. Real exercises have also begun. In spring, a crisis management exercise took place in Estonia, which concluded that government institutions have not yet considered crisis situations, there are no crisis plans, not to mention that exercises have been organised. What are your conclusions as head of government? Has the government taken action to draw up these plans? One conclusion was that an informed citizen is needed. What is the government's plan, especially in terms of regulating civic education in crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U60	Thank you. You had a lot of questions and issues. I've been head of the government for a little over a year and a half. I am quite sure that it will not be possible to find another period in Estonia's recent history if more security exercises were organised at the level of the government. We don't talk openly about all the exercises to the details, but that doesn't mean they don't exist, that doesn't mean they don't learn from them. On the contrary, we have become much more professional, we know very precisely what to do in crisis situations. We certainly intend to increase our professionalism in the future. Estonia has reached a stage in its development where we must have the capacity to face all kinds of threats. We are a well-functioning country with a sufficiently high standard of living who cannot afford not to develop certain capabilities. This concerns internal security and military protection, as well as the fact that in times of crisis, things must be seen on a broad scale and that very many structures must also be involved in exercises outside the area of responsibility of the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of the Interior. But I can assure you that all of this is dealt with every day and that our ability is good. Estonian authorities are professional and we are working on it to become even better.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U61	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U62	Good President! Good Prime Minister! In your speech and answers, you have repeatedly mentioned that you very much liked the four proposals of British Prime Minister Cameron to change Europe. Among other things, you were talking about the green card I've folded here. In the short time that I have been in Parliament, I have been able to make sure that the word 'gum stamp' is still correct, despite the fact that, together with the Free Party, we have tried to reduce the role of the rubber stamp. With the same automaticity, both the government and Parliament take decisions coming from Europe. In a sense, the debate on European policy in Parliament has also been superficial. How do you think the same green card could be enforced so it doesn't have a rubber stamp on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U63	Thank you. I do not think that the Estonian Parliament is a rubber stamp. When I think of important decisions, three different positions have often come from your group alone, which is an eight-member group. It cannot be said that this is merely a stamping exercise, that there has still been a completely open debate on all kinds of issues, and that is also the case in the Committee on European Union Affairs. During these six years, when I was a member of the European Union Affairs Commission and, for about two years of this, the Commission's leader, it was mostly a very good debate, extending across political party borders. Very often, we also managed to find solutions that did not overlap at all with the borders of the coalition and opposition. On European policy issues, in fact, we have not had a different approach to the opposition and coalition in a classic way. We have always debated the problems, and very often the positions of the government in the Committee on European Union Affairs have been unanimously supported. This is not a matter for liberals or conservatives or social democrats; it has been Estonia's common vision of how best to deal with matters in Europe. I think this has been quite successful so far and it is worth keeping this value in the future. Now this green card. The Green Card means the right of initiative, which means that in a format such as the delegations of the European Union Affairs Committees, where each Member State has six or, if there are several chambers, 12 delegates, the right of the national Parliament to have the greatest possible say, so that something really depends on these debates. This is a subject that has been very important to the British, and I think what can we oppose this position. If you take a step backwards, it must be said that Estonia has a Nordic parliamentary decision-making procedure for European affairs. The government needs to come to Parliament before taking a position on how to behave, for example, in the Council or in any Council of the European Union, in the Committee on European Union Affairs, where not only all political groups are represented, but also all parliamentary committees. It is similar to the situation in Denmark, Sweden, Finland and other Nordic countries and is a very parliamentary model, which respects Parliament very highly and takes into account Parliament's opinion. It's not like we're just gonna come and ask what you think, and then we're gonna talk. If I'm going to tell a different story, I'll have to come and explain to you later why I said a different story. Your mandate is always binding on me in the Council. It is therefore no wonder that we consider it reasonable in Estonia if the role of parliaments in Europe as a whole is more valued and appreciated. I certainly do not agree that Parliament has been or should have been in the role of a rubber stamp in the future. Parliamentary debate on European issues is also necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U64	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U65	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Today we have not yet talked about the situation east of us. We know that weapons are turning again in Ukraine. Do you think it is right for one Member of the European Union to continue the process of ratifying the border treaty with the warring aggressor, or should we come up with something else here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U66	Thank you. The fact that there is a war in Ukraine is clear to all of us. The fact that the European Union does not tolerate this is clear to all of us. We cannot say that we have a normal good neighbourly and friendly relationship with our eastern neighbour. It wouldn't be fair to say that. However, if the question is whether we want relations between us to be legally regulated, or if it is better that we, as the only neighbouring country, do not have a border agreement with Russia, I say that in any case clearly regulated relations are better. So I wouldn't associate these two issues. If we are pursuing Estonia's national interests and, in fact, the national interests of the Russian Federation, then the fact that there is a border agreement with all our neighbours is self-evident. For this reason, the issue of the border agreement is unambiguously clear to me. We need it, just like Russia needs it. My recommendation to Parliament is to take care of this and ratify the document.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U67	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U68	Thank you. Prime Minister! My question is driven by some earlier questions on the issue of refugees and refugees. We know that there are political forces in Estonia who accuse the government of being completely unjust, by the way, in favour of some kind of mass immigration. There are forces who march under slogans that the Estonian quota is zero, and organise protest demonstrations and torch marches. Have you heard these people speak, or have you seen any holistic approach or vision of how to solve this refugee crisis? For example, expressing reluctance against climate warming alone is not a comprehensive climate policy. Have you heard of such a vision or approach of anti-refugee forces?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U69	Thank you. A very good and relevant question. I must admit that no complex or fundamental proposals have been heard from these opponents. I, too, believe that confrontation or hatred is not politics. If we are to resolve one or the other issue, we must be able to see the issue in its entirety. If you take this mass immigration slogan, I think everyone actually understands perfectly that it is completely inappropriate to talk about mass immigration in Estonia. I believe the public has long understood that, too. This is probably why these torch trains have become less and less understood. I have heard more and more that I do not understand what is really being fought against or where all this hatred has come from among these activists.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U70	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U71	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister, first of all, thank you very much for your review. Everywhere there is war and acts of terror, people suffer. In particular, civilians are suffering: women, children and all innocent bystanders. Can you confirm and promise that, as your Prime Minister, but also our Minister for Defence, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and other members of the Government at the European Union meetings, you will still remember Ukraine and what is happening there?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U72	Thank you. You can be sure of that. We have a full consensus in the government union that we need to show solidarity with Ukraine. There's no choice, it's not a question. This is, in our view, very fundamental. It is quite right that in Ukraine there are very many victims among civilians in areas where war has taken place. We must not forget them, as you referred to. I recently spoke to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in Riga, who said that the day we met there had been 12 episodes in Ukraine when mortars, or not light handguns, were shot. These were not just random, individual shots, although such a thing would have attracted enormous attention in any other country. It is difficult to say that this crisis would have resolved somehow. We also know that a large part of Ukraine's territory is still under the control of another country.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U73	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U74	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! My question relates to the previous question. I am pleased to hear that the Government of the Republic of Estonia has not forgotten the subject of Ukraine. But looking at the current security situation in Europe, it seems that the war in Ukraine is something remote and less pervasive than the shots in the centre of Paris. Looking also at Russia's relatively declarative 'fight against ISIS' in Syria, my question is what your assessment is. Does Europe at some point in its fight against ISIS take into account that there is a Realpolitik and looks at Russia as an ally, and the cost of this ally relationship may be the forgetfulness of Crimea or Ukraine?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U75	Thank you. In itself, there is no fresh discovery in Europe that there is a completely brutal society called ISIS. We also talked in Wales, which was already last September, more than a year ago, about the fact that there are two comparable and quite equally serious problems for NATO. These are precisely the war in Ukraine and the ISIS, how to say, formation or growth. I very much believe that we must not forget the other in the process of resolving one problem. If we work with one country or another on any issue, it must not give a bill of lading so that this country may act as an aggressor elsewhere. Absolutely not. Solving the conflict in Syria will in no way change our attitude towards what is happening in Ukraine. The sanctions imposed by the European Union against Russia are also directly linked to what is happening in Ukraine, and not to anything else. The relaxation of these sanctions can only be considered if the agreed preconditions, namely Minsk II, have been implemented literally.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U76	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U77	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I agree that four fundamental freedoms of the European Union will bring about an overall increase in prosperity and living conditions for the citizens of all Member States. At the same time, during the Friday's Daesh attack in Paris, the attackers were French citizens. Another important fact is that 25% of young people aged 18 to 24 in France regard Daesh as positive or very positive, although the proportion of Muslims in the population there is only 7 to 8%. It is not a Muslim problem, therefore, but a more general problem. Are we, together with our European Union partners, planning steps to curb extremism and terrorism? Do we have any progress here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U78	Thank you. I don't know how to comment on these polls. I am convinced that, after these brutal acts of terror, there are very few people in Europe and around the world who have sympathy for Daesh, or ISIS. In my opinion, we all share a common reason for condemning terrorism of all kinds. In my opinion, the primary feature of a terrorist is neither nationality, nor religion. The first sign of a terrorist is hatred and inhumanity. There is no way to generalise, either on the grounds of nationality, nationality or religion, that all profess to have a religion, all people of a nationality, or all people of a nationality of a country, are like that. That would be exceptionally stupid and shortsighted. Unfortunately, among every nation, among people who recognise every religion, there are citizens of every country with whom it is not possible to identify. It is up to us, together, to state very clearly that we unequivocally condemn all terrorist acts. As far as cooperation against terrorism is concerned, of course, it is one of the important European policies. This will certainly also be the subject of the meeting of the Ministers of the Interior this week. Next week, the Heads of Government of the European Union will most likely meet. I'm pretty sure it'll come to that, too. A separate Council meeting was held in the summer or early spring, when we were talking about these issues. This is, of course, vital for Europe. All such steps, including those mentioned by Igor Gräzin, including the fact that he has to show an ID card when he gets on the plane, and the fact that there is a system such as PNR, or passenger identification system, are important to prevent acts of terror. Such inconveniences need to be tolerated in order to make acts of terror as difficult as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U79	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! How has immigration policy affected our relations with other European countries? In immigration policy, the various countries have recently quite changed their minds when we compare it with the time when problems arose and it started. The Hungarian Prime Minister has been the most impressive since the beginning and was initially condemned quite deeply. At the moment, however, it was decided in England, which you mentioned several times, I do not know, four years of basically not paying social benefits to immigrants, Germans restricting the right of families to join, no longer extending it, etc. How have such activities affected our relationship? How do you assess our relationship with the new Polish coalition of power?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U81	Thank you. In general, however, crises have largely brought Europe closer together. Members of the European Union also seek mutual understanding when their views differ in some ways. At the same time, it must be said that, in this particular crisis, the situation of the countries of the European Union is very different. There are countries where it is purely humanly difficult to deal with tens of thousands of people who have entered the country. This is not because these people are from another nation or come from another country, but simply because there are 10,000 people who do not have a place to live, who need food whose children need education, it creates purely logistical problems. When these countries say that they need help, it is more understood. However, if a country such as this, where there is not much contact with refugees, where a few dozen people have received asylum protection in the last year, should start talking about having run out of space, then you can be sure that this will not be understood. If in Estonia someone is talking about mass immigration, although the war refugees associated with Syria have not come to Estonia in essence, it is difficult to find an understanding. Indeed, mass immigration is in those countries where tens of thousands or even hundreds of thousands of people have entered. So understanding certainly depends on the adequacy of the talk spoken by one country or another or by a politician in one country or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U82	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Prime Minister, for your presentation and your answers to this day. As you rightly emphasised in your presentation, European values, European solidarity and European unity all of them, including cooperation, are also the hallmarks of European research policy. At the same time, we all know that every European country is trying to invite more and more brilliant heads to research or research in its own research institutions. How strongly should Estonia be involved in research policy, and what could Estonia's trumps be here at all? It's probably not money.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U84	Thank you. What's more than brains and enormous industriousness are our trumps. The climate is also conducive to work, if you take it that way. Just kidding. I had the honour of meeting with the leading members of the European Research Council in Tallinn. We also discussed the position of Estonian science in Europe and how Estonian scientists have gone about applying for grants from the Research Council, for example. It must be said with great pride that, given the size of the country, very many scientists have also received support from this very honourable funding. I would be very sceptical about saying that we will succeed in this area and in another area. I generally do not like politicians going to tell researchers what area they should be promoting and which they should not. It's a scientific matter, it's up to us to create an appropriate environment. It cannot be ruled out that in some disciplines that are not very widespread, there are real gems in Estonia. If you look at the discipline that the same European Research Council scholarships have been awarded to representatives, they are from wall to wall, from law to science. There's no narrow common denominator here. I think that's good. The results still depend on the strength of the teams and their achievements.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U85	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U86	Thank you, good manager. Thank you, Prime Minister, for a meaningful and open debate. The European Court of Human Rights has recently ruled that Italy is in breach of Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as there is no legal framework in the country to ensure the recognition and protection of cohabitation of same-sex partners. The Estonian Government did not issue an opinion on the implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act submitted by the Riigikogu, as there was no consensus on this issue in the Government. As Prime Minister, do you consider such a thing to be a European asset and the Riigikogu should adopt implementing acts on the Cohabitation Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U87	Thank you. After all, we also said at the press conference that there really is no consensus on this issue in the government. The two coalition partners consider that the law adopted once must be correctly implemented and the Estonian legal space merged. However, we also respect that one of the three coalition partners has a different view. We have been aware of this from the beginning, and no one has withheld their opinion from others. So it is fair to say that there really is no consensus in the government. I do not think it makes sense to open up a major political debate on this particular issue anymore, because Parliament has already made a political choice last year. I was not a member of the Riigikogu at the time, but I have said that if I had been a member of the Riigikogu, I would have voted in favour of this law. I think so now. I do not see the possibility that the law has been passed, but the acts necessary for this law to actually apply will not be passed. That would be an absurd situation. I therefore call for this issue to be addressed without excessive emotionalism and for it to be resolved in a sensible and practical way, as is the case with Estonia. I do not think that we should continue indefinitely these debates that were held in Estonian society last year. We may realize that there are different people among us, and we have reason to accept each other as we are.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U88	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I do not know why you like to think that the anti-immigration forces are angry, but you do not think that they are perhaps concerned about the future of the Estonian state and people. Indeed, there is no mass immigration in Estonia yet, but I do not know what to call what has happened in Europe and what to think about warnings about what will happen in the future. The problem is, we're probably not gonna stay in the situation we're in right now. You have to be careful and act. Do you really think it will be that no one wants to come to Estonia or that only 500 or a little more people will come here? From yesterday's Home Secretary's answers, it seemed our ability to receive these people as if there were no boundaries, stretching like a rubber balloon.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U89	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U90	Thank you. As I said earlier, in a situation where there are a few dozen people in Estonia who have received asylum, it is completely inappropriate to talk about some kind of mass immigration. It is even more inappropriate to paste stickers on cars that there is no Africa here. This shows not only hatred but also stupidity, because Syria is not an African country at all. Not only have I seen anger, but I have seen anger, propaganda, and misconception. I have also seen probably conscious attempts to win the cheap political popularity of dividing society. It's not my thing. I don't think it's Estonian. We are used to saving in Estonia in every situation. Even if there are issues that need to be resolved jointly, this must be done rationally. Estonia is not a country with tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of people coming. It doesn't look anywhere. All the more, it seems totally ridiculous to me that if about one person comes here a day and this way for two years in a row, because it has been agreed that Estonia could also help people fleeing the war, then we call it mass immigration or we put stickers on cars that say that there is no Africa here. Syria is not in Africa. I want you to train your colleagues to share these stickers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U91	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U92	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! One of Estonia's most experienced foreign politicians, Matti Strawberry, wrote the article 'Estonian grasshopper and Europe' a few weeks ago, expressing personal views as a citizen. I quote: 'We are far from being actively and intelligently involved in the EU debates. In matters such as strengthening the protection of Europe's external borders, the EU's enlargement policy, particularly in the case of Turkey, the links between development cooperation and migration, involvement requires much more thought, reading more than 140 characters, and also more coordination within the country than we are used to. " Do you agree with the worrying assessment of Matt's Strawberry? If so, how can we improve Estonia's ability to participate in all important matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U93	Thank you. I would point out that Matti Strawberry is not so much a politician as a diplomat of the Republic of Estonia and a representative of Estonia to the European Union. We discuss European issues very often with Matti Strawberry. I don't know if I share his concern, but I can agree that there is never too much quality debate. We need to have a conviction not only in this Parliament or in the government, but also in society at large, that Europe, that it is us. There's no such thing that there's Brussels out there where the owts come from. This was the case with Moscow decades ago, and Brussels is quite different. We go to Brussels as one of the 28, and we have very great opportunities to participate in these decisions ourselves, and our own commitment depends on whether or not our vote is weighty. My conviction, based on experience, has not only been a head of government, but it has been before, as a member of the government, that if Estonia tries to convince its partners and tells us why the solution we have proposed is rational and sensible on some point, and also beneficial for Europe as a whole, then we will succeed in convincing our partners. On quite a number of issues, this has been the case. We should never, in Europe, take the view that we are not taking part in the debate on issues with which we have no immediate concern, but we expect everyone else to be ready to discuss these issues that are important to us. That would be very wrong. If we want our partners and allies to speak and think along on what is most important to us in European politics, it is very important that we have the willingness to show sympathy on issues that do not directly concern us. It is here that a number of questioners from the back row have taken the opposite view. I must honestly say that my views here differ greatly and greatly from those of the EKRE. I say that it is cooperation and sympathy for other concerns that will contribute to a better understanding of the problems we have raised. It is very positive that not only during the last two governments, but actually long before that, throughout our membership, Estonian politicians, diplomats and state officials have maintained this course that we are a well-constructive and sensible partner. I certainly intend to continue this course. I am not making any secret of the fact that it has already been possible to enjoy the fruits that have been based on this course during the times of my governments. If we understand others, others will understand us too, it is part of European policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U94	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U95	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! That's what I'm asking as a hardened educator. Mr Jürgen Ligi has not been very good at managing the Estonian education system. It's an irrational activity, whacking from the wall to the wall. What happens when refugees come? What, then, will Estonia's education policy be like? Are they ready for this and is Mr. Ligi competent to do these things?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U96	Thank you. Indeed, Jürgen Ligi is the competent Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U97	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U98	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! If we look at statistics, it is clear that the subsidies granted to Estonian farmers are several times lower than those granted to farmers from many other European countries. The Eurostat table shows that the average rate of aid in Finland is 900 euros per hectare, in Greece 700 euros, in the Netherlands 650 euros, and in Estonia less than 200 euros. It is clear that this will reduce the competitiveness of our agriculture. I think that Estonia's position could be that if Europe cannot pay us as much as others, then people could pay less or, for example, stop supporting agriculture at all. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U99	Thank you. In general, I agree with the fact that the common agricultural subsidies of the European Union are less restrictive than improving competition. In principle, it can also be accepted that if there were no direct payments in the European Union, the Estonian farmer would only have to win. It can also be said that if we were to lose the trade barriers that we have with North Africa and some other crisis regions, and allow the Estonian and European markets, for example, vegetables that come from African countries in difficult economic conditions, where the climate is very favourable for the cultivation of such cultures, with the benefits of trade, we would support them more than we can ever support them with development and humanitarian aid. Only in Africa, tens of billions of euros are channelled from the European Union each year. So, in principle, there would be a move in this direction according to the market economy logic and it would be useful. On the other hand, there are also agricultural subsidies that improve competition. The situation of Estonian farmers has been significantly improved by, for example, investment grants. It is quite clear that some of the European Union's countries were lagging behind for historical reasons due to a lack of investment or different investments. If it has been helped to invest in barns, tractors, very different equipment, this has of course helped Estonian farmers to become more competitive. Do I believe that the European Union will, in the near future, make a radical turnaround in the common agricultural policy? I'd rather not. Can we move towards more equal subsidies, more free trade and more towards a reduction in subsidies as a whole? I think so. There are certainly more areas in the European Union budget that need to be financed. As has been said, if there were fewer direct payments in Europe, the Estonian farmer would rather win.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U100	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U101	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, One of the biggest failures in the implementation of Estonian European Union policy is the granting of state aid contrary to Estonian Air's rules. What conclusions has the government drawn to prevent such a thing from happening again in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U102	Thank you. It is, in itself, a perfectly understandable question. By creating a new airline, we have set a clear target for the company to have a market-based business plan and to be able to deliver under market conditions without State aid. It is also the best protection in order to avoid any future question as to whether State aid was lawful or illegal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U103	Thank you, Prime Minister. Honourable Riigikogu! Before we go any further, I am obliged to tell you that the Bureau has received proposals from the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Social Democratic Party Group. They have one content: to extend the working time of the plenary session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. We need to vote on this proposal. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Social Democratic Party to extend the working time of the sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. There were 61 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, one against, with no abstentions. Working hours have been extended. The next rapporteur is Kalle Palling, Chairman of the European Union Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U104	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Good Riigikogu! Good guests! Almost a month ago, I spoke here before you about the ideas and plans for the future of Estonia's migration policy. Unfortunately, I have to say that the problem has not disappeared, and it does not seem that the wrinkles of thousands of people and, on the other hand, the internal and foreign policy concerns of many countries regarding the large movement of refugees will be easily solved in the near future. For the second time this year, we have had to bow our heads to the memory of innocent people who have been killed by terrorist acts in Paris. This is a terrible tragedy and an attack not only on France but on the whole of the European Union. We know that dealing with the shock situation is the best way to deal with it. That is why we need to find the strength to stay on the course of European values and to continue our daily activities in the implementation of European Union policies. Any extremes of terrorism, cruelty or hatred cannot be tolerated. Our European view of the world is based and has always been based on humanity and the value of human life. We must not look down on those in need, because that is the purpose of the brutal group that is testing our values. I hope that politicians, both in us and in Europe at large, will think carefully about the possible consequences before speaking about the refugee crisis. On the one hand, we must not become alien, on the other, we must assess our abilities in a realistic way. Overreaction is often the greatest threat. There is no more important issue in Estonia and the European Union at the moment than finding a solution to the migration crisis. At the same time, in today's speech, I would like to focus on other problems facing us. Although the focus of the leaders of the European Union must remain on the rapid implementation of migration policy, we must not forget that there is a war going on right behind our borders, and that, as Russia's aggression continues, the escape of many people from Ukraine may be added to the flows of refugees from the south. Compared to today's beginning of the summer, it is positive that we are moving towards resolving the refugee crisis, which will not only provide a temporary solution by improving refugee conditions and better managing aid, but will be approached more broadly and much more strategically than it was at the beginning of the crisis. We have been working harder to improve cooperation with and help with the neighbouring countries of Syria, helped international organisations and, as an Estonian politician, this is perhaps the most important thing we have looked inside of us during discussions and disputes. Whoever has found it in connection with migration, solidarity and the history of the Estonian people, we see and hear almost every day in the press and also in this Chamber. Solidarity is an important asset in the European Union. The previous President of the European Commission, José Manuel Barroso, has rightly said that there is no stability without solidarity, but there is no solidarity without stability. His words well describe the current disorder of governance in the European Union, which has brought attention to those who are most in need of help in this crisis, and guided it to those who take advantage of the fact that the door is open, creating reluctance against everything that is different. I sincerely believe that the majority of those who have embarked on a dangerous journey and who have arrived in Europe are still those who need help, contrary to what they are trying to say. I'm asking if there's anyone in this room who can tell the difference between the people on the boat at the time of rescue and those who don't. Solidarity and humanity are important values for Europeans, but nevertheless we must not grant a discount at the expense of the security of our people. Any person who arrives in Europe must be registered as soon as possible and their applications must be processed on an equal footing. Those in need must be received, and those who come from other considerations and safe countries must be returned. At this point, I would like to ask that the High Representative of the European Union, Federica Mogherini, to proceed quickly with the establishment of a list of safe countries. In order to protect one of Europe's fundamental values, the free movement of people, there is obviously no choice but to set up a single border authority. The protection of the southern border of the European Union is as important as the protection of the eastern border. In order to strengthen the latter, we invest tens of millions of euros from the Estonian state budget. It would probably be difficult to imagine a situation where hypothetical refugee flows from the east would easily cross the border and our role would only be to show which direction Sweden, Finland or Germany is in. This situation would probably be very difficult for us and we would need allies' support to protect the border and manage refugee flows, which is why solidarity must also be shown for refugees from the South. But the most important thing is that coordination of the situation would in any case be our task. It is exactly the same that I see that today the role of the countries through which refugees arrive in Europe is to be responsible for dealing with people coming from the south. The European Union Affairs Commission has visited Finland and Sweden for the purpose of examining refugee policy. These are our closest neighbours, who have a different experience of migration from us, and we are also acting differently in the current situation. The important difference is also that they are usually the main country of destination of refugees, and we are still not. A small country like us cannot afford this luxury to reinvent the wheel itself, but we must learn from those who have a longer-term experience. Good practice must be taken over and mistakes must not be repeated. In early autumn, I went to Jordan with my Vice-Chairman of the Commission and a delegation from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We saw on the ground the concerns of refugees and the expectations of the host country, including what they expect of us. The most important value we received from this visit was the fact that, as a small country in Jordan, even after the adoption of 1.5 million Syrian refugees, it is ready to contribute, but at the moment it simply lacks the means to do so. The European Union must contribute more to helping countries bordering conflict zones. There is, however, one lever that can help to find a longer-term solution in this region, and that is largely dependent on the will of the countries of the European Union. If we improve trade with neighbouring countries of Syria and reduce restrictions, then we can make a major contribution to the economic development of these countries and to job creation there, and this will give them a better chance of coping with the migration crisis. The European Union is constantly discussing how to combat the economic crisis, ensure economic development and create new jobs. We cannot do this only within the Union without involving our neighbours. We need to move towards more liberal world trade in a broader sense. When the debt crisis broke out, we were mainly able to react quickly to help Greece and to bring the necessary institutions into practice and to contribute as Member States. Why have we not considered a similar solution to the refugee crisis? After all, we call the migration crisis the biggest crisis that has hit the European Union since World War II. If the stability of the euro area is important to us, then people's sense of security and the stability that comes with it should be at least as important. People must feel the same way in the European Union. Why, then, do we not allocate significant sums to deal with the situation that caused the refugee crisis in the long term? Examples of such forms of cooperation are also given in recent history. The United Nations Assistance and Recovery Administration was an organisation set up after the Second World War on the initiative of the United States, which provided irrecoverable assistance to Europe. The organization was founded by the governments of 44 countries on 9 November 1943 in Washington. Since 1945 it was under the United Nations. Four billion dollars were distributed over three years, which means 52 billion euros when converted into the current currency. The largest beneficiary was Poland, which received EUR 6.3 billion in its current currency. Good Riigikogu! I will continue on the European Union's neighbourhood. The welfare of us and the Union is affected by what is happening in neighbouring countries. So far, Estonia's most important message has been that the integration of the Eastern partners into the European Union, in particular, I am thinking of Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia, with whom we have so far had the most close cooperation and who have developed the fastest, must not be overshadowed by the refugee crisis. It is the responsibility of Estonia to keep its hand on the pulse and the subject on the agenda, as the refugee crisis affects the Union as a whole, but the Eastern Partnership is more important to certain Member States than to the Union as a whole. President Toomas Hendrik Ilves has said that Eastern Partnership policy is not a direct ticket to the European Union, but it is not excluded as a final station. What is happening in Ukraine has developed rapidly, but now the Ukrainians themselves need reforms and readiness to continue with them too, unfortunately at the same time as the armed conflict is taking place in the east and south of the country. We are ready to assist and provide support to Ukraine. At the same time, the reform process must move forward, and this in turn requires a broad understanding and support for the Ukrainian people's need for reforms. We are well aware that it is not realistic to take the idea that one or the other agreement with the European Union will change life in the country at the moment, and that the prosperity of the economy and the well-being of the population will therefore immediately flourish. For our part, we must provide support and cooperation to our colleagues, both in Ukraine and in other neighbouring countries, in order to ensure a movement on the reform course. The issue of conflicts there must remain on the table in the European Union's debates, despite the fact that more acute problems from the point of view of some countries have emerged and the existing desire to promote business with misleadings in the course chosen by neighbouring countries. The European Union has recognised Georgia's progress towards visa liberalisation. We look forward to a positive decision this year. Once all the criteria are met, there must no longer be any doubts or other considerations as to why the decision should be postponed. Georgia would have a visa-free regime bonus for reforms that would encourage further efforts. Visa freedom has a grassroots effect, as it affects tourism, culture, as well as pupil exchange and cooperation between civil society organisations. For residents of occupied areas, this would show the benefits of Georgia's reintegration. Other Eastern Partnership countries would be encouraged to implement reforms. It is not of little importance that the emerging intimidation of the Iron Curtain makes it important to offer qualitatively different alternatives and visions to countries beyond the eastern borders of the European Union. A year ago, the Riigikogu voted in the final vote on the draft Act on the ratification of the Association Agreements between the European Union and Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia. The Riigikogu was one of the first to support the ratification of the treaties and hoped that other Member States, too, would rapidly complete the process of ratification of the treaties. Estonia will continue to support the implementation of Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine reforms and the implementation of Association Agreements. We call on those countries that have not yet ratified these agreements to do so as soon as possible. Good Riigikogu! Globalisation has strongly linked our economies and what is happening in one country or another can affect and, in most cases, affect others. Whether the solution to this major problem is only the conclusion of a free trade agreement with the US is doubtful, but it would be a very big step towards economic development and job creation. I believe that this agreement is also a very good opportunity for our agriculture to sell even more of its products further away from Estonia. It also forces old European farmers to put more emphasis on the efficiency that our producers seem natural. Is the European economy okay? I'm sure we're better off than a year ago, even with a little more clarity and perspective. Unfortunately, economic development processes do not take place overnight. The debt crisis was also a matter of four years ago. In the same context, the President of ELAK at the time spoke about the debt crisis, about the rescue measures and about the need for reforms, who was today the main rapporteur in this panel. Processes take time and some countries are more painful and longer-term than others. Ireland and Cyprus can be cited as a positive example. I hope that Greece, too, will finally be able to overcome the difficulties and will continue in the euro area as a 'deadly ordinary' member. Ensuring energy security has been an important issue both last year and this year. In October, with the support of governments, Estonian and Finnish gas companies submitted a joint request to the European Commission for the construction and financing of the Balticconnector pipeline linking the two national gas networks. The common position on the proposal for funding marks the achievement of a very important interim phase. This shows the determination of the two countries to increase gas security and competitiveness and to add alternative sources of supply. The fact that only by highlighting the interests of the region and not by constantly pulling the blanket towards itself, success can be achieved is not of minor importance to this project either. However, the development of the last year has been a double success, which had to be achieved by using card game terms to do all in and open all cards. Otherwise, we would probably have been arguing so far, whose project is mature enough to move forward. However, the potential for the development of the gas connection would probably have been overplayed by this argument. This concrete step should set a good example in the future choices of energy policy. The more we work together with our neighbours and the faster we move towards a single Energy Union for the European Union, the better we achieve energy security, while ensuring competitive prices for energy carriers. Good listeners! The Prime Minister today presented the priorities for the European Union's policies drawn up by the Government for the next four years. Estonia's first Presidency of the Council of the European Union will remain in this period, in which our committee will also play an important role. Apart from Parliament's own events and additional activities related to the Presidency, we need to think today about how the establishment of the priorities of the Estonian Presidency, their adherence and the discussion of positions in Parliament are best ensured. It must be borne in mind that during the Presidency semester, Estonia must be primarily chaired, i.e. primarily pursuing the more general interests of Europe. At the same time, I consider it necessary to confirm that we will not ignore the smooth functioning of the internal part of the European Union's decision-making process and the participation of the Riigikogu in it. We have met with the Secretary of State and the leadership of the team that prepares the Presidency, and we will do so even more closely over the next year. Estonia must be capable, flexible and resource efficient. By making preparations in cooperation with the executive, we are prepared to conduct our Presidency in the best way and, based on this experience, to improve our knowledge, skills and processes and, if necessary, to change that the 100th birthday of the Republic of Estonia is not just a time of jubilee celebrations, but an additional impulse for development in line with the state's dignified age. The recent Latvian Presidency is a good example for us, giving us strength and encouragement. In order for a small country such as Estonia to be even more successful, the priorities need to be synchronised today in cooperation with our previous and subsequent presidencies. Still, so that the focus stays longer than six months and what has been started can be successfully completed. Some of the more general issues are already on the table today: the development of the single market and the digital market in the European Union, the creation of an Energy Union and the strengthening of the common foreign policy and the Eastern Partnership policy. We promote the information society and the use of e-solutions throughout. It has been asked how the Riigikogu intends to participate in planning and implementing the activities of our Presidency in the run-up to and during the Estonian Presidency. As of today, the Riigikogu has a very good opportunity to explain Estonia's positions and I strongly believe that the same process should continue during the Presidency, as no one loses the country or its interests during the Presidency. The second thing is the programme of Estonia as the Presidency, the previous programme of the Trio Presidency and the substantive thematic documents. Here we must be guided by the role of the President-in-Office, or promoter of general interests, but the Riigikogu must certainly monitor the logic of the existing model of coordination of European Union issues in cooperation with the government and be a co-decidator. Only in this way will we ensure the best functioning of the country as a whole, while at the same time achieving the best possible consensus by topic. Our current model, where the government and the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs work closely together, has developed for nearly 20 years and I believe that we should be proud of it. The cooperation between the Riigikogu and the government in the decision-making of European Union matters is interested both in the Eastern Partnership countries and in several Member States, whose accession time remained during our period of independence and earlier. In the run-up to our first presentation, the Presidency is the United Kingdom, which last week was sent by the government to address Europe's leaders, where it presented its proposals on what changes should be made in the European Union. From time to time, you have to look inside yourself and assess whether some things can be done differently. As part of these proposals involves increasing the role of national parliaments, I call on the United Kingdom to discuss the content of the reform package also in the parliaments of other countries of the European Union. The Commission on European Union Affairs is going to do this in a few weeks' time. It is important for Estonia that we consider possible changes within the framework of the existing Treaties, not restricting the European Union's four fundamental freedoms: the free movement of people, capital, goods and services within the Member States. What can we do today? A package of proposals to strengthen the role of the national parliaments of the European Union is on the table. The UK is the leader there and Denmark, the Netherlands and the Polish Legislative Assembly have played an important role. Good Riigikogu! The Riigikogu has been asked in several debates to set up a committee dealing with IT issues. The idea itself is entirely relevant. At the same time, the creation of a committee is not easy, and its effectiveness as a driver of Estonia's competitiveness and as a promoter of the general development of the Estonian state is far from guaranteed. The Committee on European Union Affairs has consistently stressed at its external meetings the need to use digital solutions, and certainly members of other committees have also done so. If we want to make better use of our current advantage and image, perhaps it is worth thinking more broadly and strategically about how to make the country even more citizen-friendly and better partner for businesses, even as a service provider for them. The Prime Minister described the collaborative economy as an industry with a great future. Estonia still has the opportunity to take the initiative and be the speaker for creating an environment favourable to the collaborative economy. An economy based on mobile applications has emerged extremely quickly. Apple came out with its App Store in 2008 and only six years ago would iPhone have probably not had a powerful enough battery to ensure the operation of a service like Uber. Now more than 60% of Internet traffic is via phones and half of it is via applications...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U105	Thank you, Kalle Palling! Time's up. The waitress is so professional that if she didn't say anything, she could say it by answering her questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U106	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U107	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U108	Thank you. Good waitress! I've got a good chance to start over where you left off. Both you and the Prime Minister mentioned the importance of the collaborative economy and the rapid developments in recent years. Why don't you give a little more details about how Estonia could be an example here for other European and other countries in the world, and how could we win the victory of the collaborative economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U109	Thank you, good questioner! I was just in the middle of it. I really think that Estonia still has a chance here to seize the initiative, as I could say. We already have positive examples that the activities of the collaborative economy, such as the most valuable start-up and the world's largest taxi company Uber, have found Estonia and started to cooperate with the Estonian tax administration. In my opinion, this is a situation where the most innovative transport company and probably the most innovative national tax administration have come together and are developing a solution that could be adopted in all other countries of the European Union. If we look more broadly, the largest tourist accommodation in the world is Airbnb, which has no hotels or rooms to accommodate people in. This is the collaborative economy, whose services we can already consume in Estonia. However, we do not have a sufficiently clear legal environment in which IT solutions and the legal framework can be brought together to ensure that those who use these services also pay all taxes. This we can develop in Estonia and probably export our experience and solution to all other countries of the European Union. Estonia will be an ambassador for the legalization of the world's collaborative economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U110	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U111	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I have such an urgent and specific question. What is your personal opinion and assessment of the future direction of the European Union, as President of the European Union Affairs Committee? Are you in favour of greater federalisation through the multiculturalism of the European Federation or of an association of nation states in which countries cooperate in the best possible way, but in particular in accordance with their national interests?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U112	In any case, this is what we will see in today's situation, cooperation is all about. Compliance with and compliance with collective commitments should be elementary. If you try to answer your question specifically, you also put multiculturality together with the Federation. I think this connection is arbitrary. These discussions, in which direction the European Union should move forward, have been held in this Chamber before, but it is certainly important for Estonia to be able to follow the course taken at the beginning of the 1990s never again alone and to provide support for the people of Estonia as a result of being in the Union. That is the most important thing in this cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U113	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U114	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good colleague! I will accept that never again alone, and I will ask rhetorically, but it is not my question that if we were together with Poland and Hungary, whether we would be alone, or whether we would necessarily have to always be with Germany. At the beginning of your speech, you said that our policy was based on openness and humanity, and you warned against overreacting. I do think that Europe has systematically sub-reacted to all the threats that have materialised today. The problem is not our openness, or the openness of Europe or Estonia. The problem is that we are facing an ideology that wants to destroy this open, tolerant, caring and humane Europe. They don't get it, which means we have to draw a clear line between 'em' and 'we'. Today, openness and security rule out each other, and I would always choose security. Don't you think that right now, this open talk should be sent on holiday and about security?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U115	Thank you, good questioner! In my opinion, the Prime Minister and I, in my speech, clearly condemned the acts of extremism, terrorism and terrorism. With this, the line you mentioned is clearly drawn. The people who come to Europe to ask for help, because there is a war in their country, and these people, when we talk about the terrible events of last Friday, who have been born and lived here in the European Union, cannot be connected. Of course, security is a priority, that is what I mentioned in my views and that is what the Prime Minister mentioned. But violently linking up terrorist attacks and people who have come to the European Union is not appropriate in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U116	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U117	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress, I have a question for you. After all, you have also seen these debates as a highly experienced parliamentary politician at European level when MEPs have discussed very important issues. You've been attending regular meetings with COSAC. The British have raised the question of how to increase the role of national parliaments. How do you think this COSAC problem we've seen for years is coming together, but it doesn't really focus on the problems we're facing?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U118	Thank you. I think that if this solution were very easy, it would probably have been found in the course of the work. But your question, and indeed the fact that the United Kingdom has raised the role of national parliaments in the European Union as an important issue, is very relevant, particularly when it comes to the very very long-lasting forms of parliamentary association that go nowhere. Perhaps one solution is to look at the role of national parliaments and the European Parliament in these forms of cooperation. If we look at the current process, we will see that the European Parliament always stands by its own opinion. Perhaps we should see if all this activity is in line with the original idea and the treaties and meets the objective of involving parliamentary politicians. However, as far as the possible European Union and foreign policy of one country are concerned, I think that Estonia has been very successful here; we have always had one position on both issues, both at parliamentary and government level. In fact, I find it difficult to imagine a situation in some countries that I mentioned as being the older countries of the European Union, where the government and Parliament have a different position. I think that, since we have such an effective model, we could introduce this model in some of the older countries, so that the decision-making process becomes faster and more transparent, and the reduction of bureaucracy that we have been expecting from the European Union since its accession is actually taking place.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U119	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U120	I will continue on the subject of the previous question. We were talking about a greater role for national parliaments. In fact, there is no need for this greater role, because everything is legally fine, everything is only politically determined. The fact is that we have always looked sour-faced towards countries that have had an independent parliament, such as the Czech Republic, Hungary, England. We looked pretty skewed at the arrival of the indigenous Finns, and even his leader has been said poorly from time to time. Do we have any experience here in the Riigikogu of how to stand up for Estonia's interests even if they conflict with the Brussels line or do they not exactly match it? I have one example, but it has nothing to do with the Riigikogu. Do we even have that will? What we're talking about is greater independence if we can't do it!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U121	I think that a good colleague, Mr Gräzin, knows very well himself that there is a very large gap in the Estonian context between Brussels policy and its immediate implementation in the form of a rubber stamp. All views will be discussed very thoroughly in the Committee on European Union Affairs as well as in the government. Later, once the position of the government has been formed, the mandate of the Riigikogu will be asked for. I think that the recent policy papers, the so-called original Brussels proposals, we are taking the same migration agenda, can still be spoken of as a success story. This is precisely in the context that Estonia presented its views on what solution would be feasible for Estonia and acceptable for small countries. We agreed on these positions with our neighbouring countries and our positions were very well heard. These examples can also be found in many other areas in exactly the same way. There has certainly never been a policy to return from Brussels to Tallinn Parliament and Brussels without changing any punctuation, and such a policy will not come in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U122	Mihkel Iron, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! Having been inspired by the speaker's remark about how a skilled and professional waitress can put some of the things she may have missed out on in her answers, I'm asking you if there's anything you couldn't touch in your presentation, but you'd like to do it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U124	In fact, I have already said everything nicely, but I would like to thank Parliament for this opportunity to call for a cross-party debate on the important issues of the European Union. Today, this is the issue of resolving the migration crisis. I said a month ago and I am also saying today that Estonia can only have one position on this issue. I hope that, in Parliament too, the positions of the various parties will be able to move closer to each other. I called for the United Kingdom, on its own initiative, to launch a debate in all the national parliaments of the European Union on the reform package before the referendum. We have done so on our own initiative, on the proposal of the Committee on European Union Affairs. Mr Gräzin asked now that he has left the hall, what is the attitude of Estonia, that if an initiative comes from Brussels, how will Estonia react? In my opinion, we have always been extremely pragmatic and, in the maximum possible way, taken into account the interests of the Estonian state in our feedback. We should also do this on such big issues. Believe me, it can be confirmed by all members of the government that if it is not just a populist position intended for consumption in domestic politics, but there is also an argument behind it, then justice is certainly what wins at all kinds of Soviet tables in the European Union. So let us have the courage to discuss all our major problems together in this large Chamber and in the Committee on European Union Affairs and to move together with political parties on the central floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U125	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U126	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good speaker! I was very pleased when you said that we in the Riigikogu, the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs were having meaningful and fundamental discussions. Well, I'd like it to be like that. Do you really consider a thorough and concise discussion of a situation in which a minister or another speaker arrives, has a long monologue, and others are given the opportunity to ask a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U127	Good questioner! I don't know exactly what format you mean. If you mean this debate, it is indeed possible to ask a question to each of the rapporteurs here. However, speaking of the work of the committees, you yourself have had all important discussions on foreign policy and European Union policy both in the summer and now in the autumn, when the Riigikogu has worked in its usual form at the joint sessions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on European Union Affairs, and you know that we have never restricted the number of questions to be asked there. Ministers of the Government of the Republic are obliged to come to the Commission, report there and ask for a mandate when they go to represent Estonia's positions in the European Union. I do not remember a situation in which Henn Põlluaas, on some foreign missions, would have liked to know what is the content of some of the things that are behind some of the decisions, nor have there been any such procedure if, in the Committee on European Union Affairs or in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, under the leadership of today's Minister for Defence, Hannes Hanso, or former Minister of Defence, Sven Mikser, there had been no question or answer. I intend to continue this practice in my committee, and I believe that Sven will continue to do so in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In the large Chamber of Riigikogu, of course, the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act sets certain limits, which does not mean that it is not possible to discuss all matters very thoroughly at committee meetings. So please don't blame the committee presidents for trying to muzzle someone!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U128	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U129	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker! It is now news that France is asking European countries for help in the war with the Islamic State. Would you comment on this and report on some of Estonia's conceivable future moves?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U130	The person who is best able to comment on it in this Chamber is sitting in front of you, and the other such person is sitting right over the aisle next to you. But I think that the first step is to wait for a specific request for assistance to the Member State. I do not know whether or not Estonia has received this request for assistance. After all, every request for assistance actually has a specific content of what kind of help is expected of us. Indeed, we have experience from missions both in Iraq and Afghanistan. I think that when this request for help comes, it will certainly have to be considered and the specific ability to help in this matter also considered. I think that Estonia has always been helpful within its possibilities and experience. Unfortunately, the small NATO Member State has limited opportunities, where we are very, very good and how we can respond to requests for assistance from other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U131	Thank you, Kalle Palling! I'm opening negotiations. Mr Marko Mihkelson on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U132	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, There is nothing to say, we are talking about European issues today and not for the first time this year. We are talking once again at a very serious moment. The document put together by the government for the next four years is a timely and, of course, a very important framework document, which I think is good and meaningful with its 60 pages. It is also procedurally drawn from a very good experience. Its content is inclusiveness, the involvement of both Parliament and stakeholders. But since this document looks forward to four years, but we see that events change not only in days, but perhaps even in hours, I call for it to be reasonable, for example, in two years' time, just before our Presidency, to review this programme seriously to make sure that there is something that should still be changed before the Estonian Presidency or that some emphasis should be raised. Like I said, time is really complicated. Events are changing very dynamically. For us, of course, there is, in essence, an existential question of whether the European Union will survive. We have seen many problems this year alone. Here we can mention, for example, the Greek credit crisis, which has also been discussed repeatedly in this Chamber, or the issues that have arisen in different Member States, whether, in the way that the European Union has developed so far, it should also move forward. In part, of course, these are issues with an internal political slope, as we know. However, the British referendum can have very important implications for the future and unity of the European Union. The rise in terrorist threats, the migration crisis, the wars near our borders, all of these are exceptional problems and make us seriously ask whether, as a Member State of the European Union, for which the 'Never again' clause is really extremely important, we can, together with our partners and allies, maintain the value space that has so far provided peace and stability in Europe. I stress two very important issues that our government needs to address, in fact, in the context of the European Union, in society as a whole. These are security and economic competitiveness. They are very closely linked and important to each Member State, including Estonia. The events in Eastern Ukraine and, once again, the terrorist attack in Paris are very serious security problems that make us wonder if the European Union has been dealing with something like this in the past. It's hard to remember. Very many say that the situation that is now ambushing us is, in fact, the first time since the very great conflicts of the 20th century, the first time since the end of World War II. It is therefore crucial for all of us and our allies and partners in the European Union to understand what these threats are, how deep and serious they are. With this awareness, we must also act together, quickly and decisively, so that we can really guarantee the unity of the European Union and counter the dangers that exist at our borders and within our borders. I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U133	Yeah, I'll give you that. Extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U134	It is also very important that the European Union's security strategy, the new version of which is now being written, actually reflects the problems that we have together. As has already been raised in the previous question, the French Minister for Defence requested military assistance from the allies at the meeting of the EU defence ministers a few hours ago, building on Article 42 (7) of the Treaty of Lisbon. This is a matter of bilateral agreements. France is asking for help from us, among others. What is our answer? I think our answer can only be one. We are with France, not only in words, but also in deeds. Of course, it is very important to think through with the allies what should be done in such a situation that has developed today, what Estonia can offer. I stress two things. Firstly, countering terrorism, killings in the European Union, must be decisive and vigorous. This must certainly include action against the Islamic State beyond our borders. But it is just as important to act decisively and vigorously against the cells of terrorist groups that already exist in the Member States of the European Union. Here too, cooperation between the Member States of the European Union in ensuring security is very important. Of course, it is extremely important for Europe to perceive that the conditions for economic development, innovation and competition must be improved in the face of major global change and global competition. Estonia has great opportunities, even in its own region, here in the Nordic and Baltic regions, to make every effort to remove existing barriers to trade and to implement the quite good experiences in digital commerce and all other related matters in Estonia. What is very important is what the Prime Minister mentioned in his reply, too, that if we want to succeed in global competition, we must create a free trade zone with the United States. This is one of the key issues that puts the future of the European Union in a completely different light. But first, the most important thing is security. If we can guarantee security and counter threats, then we can certainly strengthen the European Union. I am convinced that from this very critical time, the European Union will come out more united than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U135	On behalf of the Group of the Andrei Novikov Centre Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U136	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is now generally best characterised by the word 'crisis'. During the summer, we saw the risk of the euro crisis, or Greece's separation or bankruptcy, which was alleviated by an additional financial allocation. Once sacred and inviolable sovereign debt restrictions, or Maastricht criteria, now exist only on paper. The volume of money printing in recent years is clearly crossing the limits of normality. The economies of many Member States stand up with extreme or sometimes negative interest rates that allow endless emissions, but the effect is being exhausted. When the US discusses the possibility of rising interest rates because their economies show signs of improvement, the debate on such an option in Europe alone would lead to a collapse of the economy. Europe is in a crisis of an ageing population that does not seem to be resolved. The peripherals, such as the Baltic States, have a double difficulty, as their people alleviate the demographic concerns of the great powers. The issue of refugees is also undoubtedly a crisis in which Europe is acting in a two-faced manner, with the message 'Welcome to Europe' on the one hand. ' and by setting up protective nets on the other side and trying to buy other countries so that they do not allow refugees to go on in God's name. All of this, however, increasingly puts the Schengen area in real danger. The possibility of Britain leaving the Union is once again under discussion, and this debate will certainly rise sharply next year and the following year. The European Commission is trying to show a strong hand. The solos of today's President of the Commission make too often the governments of the Member States angry, which may lead to dangerous opposition in the long term. Now Estonia. The 2016 state budget to be discussed this week is a minus sign. If you subtract European Union funding from it, the minus sign will simply become a long continuous line. I will give you an example of road investments. Here, of course, we need Europe, because our government simply could not manage on its own, even if it raised all kinds of excise duty once again. At the same time, it is the last moment to prepare for the time when Estonia will have to cope without the help of the European Union. Sanctions and overall overproduction in Europe are systematically killing our agriculture, fisheries and rural areas in general. Milk Liters are cheaper than water in stores today. I would like to see more of our government here or at least see him as much as in the neighbouring countries. At the same time, please be careful what Europe promises, what it does not do, so as not to cause more harm than good by failing to do. The decisions taken several years ago and the failure to comply with European state aid rules have led us to Estonian Air and a lot of money. Let us think that the decision at the time cost the Estonian taxpayer as much as the government's decision to make 1% of the social tax. The lack of government communication on refugee issues has led to misunderstandings and overheating in the heads of too many people. What is government policy? Either the ban or 'Welcome to Estonia! '? To which municipalities do refugees settle or how many additional allocations from the government reserve fund are needed to cover the costs of refugees? Ladies and gentlemen, do not misunderstand me. Being part of the European Union has undoubtedly brought Estonia many benefits. At the same time, we are increasingly addicted to decisions that are made somewhere else or on which it must be taken into account that our partners are already expecting solidarity from us. It is, on the one hand, making the Strategic Union increasingly and more dependent on tactical choices, and, on the other hand, it has led to drowning in a number of fragmented strategies, in which it is difficult to orient even those who write them. In the Committee on European Union Affairs, we often discuss very detailed details. It is difficult to answer the question clearly whether it is good or bad. However, we know that just a century ago, when there were no rapid communication possibilities, the negotiating instructions were strategic-conceptual. This forced policy negotiators and policy makers to base themselves on general concepts and strategies and national interests. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U137	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U138	Thank you. Communication is fast today, and negotiations are often tactical; in an instant, every detail can be clarified if necessary. This process has led to a blurring of conceptual thought both at European and national level. Thus, for example, Estonia's state budget may continue to look for some important purpose or idea. What, however, could be Estonia's great idea of implementing the European Union's policy today? Is it really that we are using European support measures as effectively as possible? What could be Europe's big idea? Do you try to maintain the well-being that previous generations have created, or do you try to keep together this combination of such different parts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U139	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U140	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Our debate on today's European Union policy is overshadowed by the events in Paris on Friday, 13 November. There are no other words to express contempt for the fact that it was a weak, vile demonstration of power. The fanatics' organized terrorist attack on peaceful people needs to be counterattacked. This counter-attack is very simply expressing European unity and fearlessness. Let him be afraid! In the first few days after the victim-rich terrorist attack in Paris, social media could read a series of reports from the so-called "knowers" about who was responsible for this massacre. Regrettable reading. Know who the war refugees are! The Social Democrats oppose such a black and white world vision. It's too easy to be true. We consider the adoption of war refugees to be a European strategy that we do not turn our backs on overnight. On the contrary, let us proceed as we have planned. I hope that the Prime Minister, who promised to support Sweden in the war refugees crisis, will also hold the floor. After all, he stood before us and confirmed it. Let us learn one more thing. These same people, Syrian war refugees, are fleeing precisely from the situation they witnessed in Paris with the help of television channels. As has already been said repeatedly across Europe: Islam and terrorism are two different things. I will continue on migration. Within the framework of the European Union, it should not be forgotten that Estonia's problem 1 is a depopulation. The relocation of refugees is now extremely active, but more than 30,000 people have migrated from Maryland in the last five years, and the balance of migration is over 12,000 people in deficit. The rise in our employment rate is largely due to the departure of working age. People want to live in Estonia when prosperity is growing here. Consequently, the increase in income and the improvement in social protection are very important for the Social Democrats, not less important than for the Prime Minister on the security issue. The current priorities of the European Commission make it possible to increase income and social security, in particular through the use of Structural Funds. Unfortunately, the government's European Union policy, including the use of Structural Funds, does not provide for a clear objective of improving people's social protection and increasing incomes. Prime Minister, have you thought about this? As Socialists, we like the introduction to Europe's policy paper for the next four years, we like the framework principles put forward there. But we find it rather absurd that employment, as a matter of human nature, will only be reached in the last third of this important document, after the market, forest, waste management and space issues have been deduced. That is the fundamental difference: the sexes have a person first, but our partners start with'real issues' to get to a person only in the final stage. Of course, let us commend our commitment to the digital market, which we see as one of the priorities of the proposed Estonian Presidency of the European Union. Let us hope, however, that our priorities have not been locked. Social democrats would have no problem if Estonia were to surprise Europe and, as one of the Presidency's priorities, it would continue to mainstream gender equality like Denmark with a small, smart and very flexible labour market. As Chairman of the Human Rights Organisation of the Council of Europe in 2016, we have declared women's rights a priority. Why not do so in 2018? After all, in his speech, the Prime Minister just recalled the French Constitution of 1789 and human rights. Speaking about competitiveness, the labour market and state entrepreneurship in Estonia in general, we cannot pass by our airline, but not only. Under the leadership of Estonian Air, the error accumulated. In the management of the Tallinn Port, men played pleasure games, not to mention problems in Eesti Energia, where the increasing losses of foreign investments seem more and more likely. Those two big state companies with a bankrupt... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U141	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U142	... The thoughts of the Estonian Air are that it would be essential for Estonia to implement the European Commission's directive, which aims to involve more women in the management of companies. The condescending attitude of a former Prime Minister on the subject did not lead to success. It is difficult to imagine that even more mistakes could have been made by the Estonian Air's strategies from one extreme to another. The participation of competent women in decision-making would have helped to reduce mistakes, if not avoid them. And yet, what is this Estonian policy of the European Union? The message of this document, the document planned for four years, and the loudest message, the fifth fundamental right, the fundamental freedom. Apart from the free movement of capital, services, goods and persons, the free movement of Estonian data offers the fifth basic freedom that works in practice. This is a strong word that will not be overlooked in Europe. Together, we must now give it substance. Energy and the vision of the Energy Union are the stronger chapters of Estonian European Union policy. We've done well with e-governance. Agriculture has a complexion. We have always done well to call for a common foreign and security policy and, lately, for a common defence and security policy in the European Union. We have good ideas in this area and it would be worth listening to in Brussels as well as in other capitals of the Member States of the European Union. We must agree that the European Union urgently needs a new global strategy for European foreign and security policy. Estonian regulations on close cooperation between the European Union and NATO as a basis for the organisation of European security are fully justified. Neighbourhood policy has a key role to play in the Eastern Partnership. We can only agree that Moldova, Ukraine and Georgia should, in the long term, find a worthy place among the other countries of the European Union. We are especially behind Ukraine. We are unshakable about the need for sanctions against Russia, and we have many supporters. Let us hope that, in the case of Russia as an aggressor, our arguments remain in force and force, still in the spirit that the European Union is a value-based community. Together we are strong and unbreakable. The subject of our debate is 'Estonia's European Union policy 2015/2019'. This 65-page policy document begins with the words 'trust' and'solidarity'. These are good words, more up-to-date than ever, that fit like a fist in the eyehole. Trust and solidarity represent the fundamental values of Europe, which we do not have the right to deviate from, just as in the European Union as in its Member State, Estonia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U143	On behalf of the Group of the Urve Tiidus Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U144	Honorable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Guests! Prime Minister! One of the dark sides of the globalizing world appeared in Paris on Friday. It manifested itself in a way that once again caused so many people to languish the world with its brutality, cruelty, and finality. The murderers will not be brought back by any modern technology or international treaty. Those who are fighting for their survival and recovery now need medical care in addition to the desire to heal and prayers of those who are away, but even more confident that such massacres will not happen again, and hope that a secure world where there is no place for terrorism will still be possible. Yesterday, a sentence was haunted by the inhabitants of the district of Molenbeek in Brussels: 'Everyone knew that radicalisation was happening, but too Europeanly approached. " It was in this part of the capital city of the European Union that the events in Paris were said to have been plotted. What does 'too European' mean in today's context? Honestly, I don't know what that means. Too good faith, too hoping that the world will function rationally and by the rules? Or does it mean that it is inability to read signs and assess risks, thinking that someone else is taking care of somewhere? But maybe it means accepting that the threat of terrorism is a new normality in the world. The probability that peaceful people can live their daily lives in a concert hall, stadium or anywhere murdered by terrorists must ideally be zero. Every other number is a failure. By taking innocent lives, let us create chaos outside the European list of values. Nor does it include the inability to face it. In short, terrorism must never become old or new normality. It is also better that the division of society created by anger and fear does not become normal, just as the effects of terrorist attacks are easy to achieve. At the same time, no one can prevent people from feeling these emotions. All of this together is not too European, it is human. There are many words and thoughts in the public at the moment, and in crisis situations they also have a therapeutic effect. The world, however, is carried forward by works born of good thoughts. Who knows, not that the world will not be destroyed by the madness of the wicked, but that the good people will do nothing. That is why it is necessary to continue the day-to-day activities in the implementation of the European Union's policies. A worldview based on humanity and the value of human life requires the faith, support and actions of all, especially at times when they are put to the test at the head of the agreed principles with freedoms. Somehow I remember Mark Twain's sentence here: "If you're good, you're lonely. ' I would very much like Twain's statement not to apply to the Member States of the European Union. Despite new situations, it is important to remind the rest of the world right now that the security situation in Ukraine has not changed and that the integration of our eastern partners, in particular Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia, into the European Union cannot fall under the shadow of the fight against the terrorist threat and the refugee crisis. To continue with the two in-depth presentations and the thoughts of all previous speakers, I assure you that the members of the Reform Party Group want to contribute to the success of the activities related to the Estonian Presidency of the European Union, whether our aim is the development of the single market or the digital internal market, the implementation of strategic orientations for energy, neighbourhood or foreign policy, the independent associations of Estonia with the European Union or the rest of the world or, more importantly, the strengthening of the role of the parliaments of the Member States of the European Union. The most weighty task, as has been the sound of many times here today, is, of course, to ensure that we feel safe and free, so that we can continue to move smoothly across the internal borders of the European Union, to study everywhere, to work, to promote culture and to do business. The main and very practical output of the first presentation of the Estonian European Union will be the implementation of the parliamentary dimension. Does that sound complicated? I am simply saying: small countries have a faster turn, as they say in Saaremaa. This is an advantage and opportunity for Estonia, despite the fact that some believe that we are in the periphery. Estonia's opportunity in the European Union is to be an inspirer in promoting the economy and innovation. Two years flying fast. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U145	Andres Herkel on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please! Requesting more time. You gotta give it to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U146	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Guests! The Prime Minister here recalled the cultural statement of Gustav Suits, how to say: 'Let us be Estonians, but let us also become Europeans! " It's been 110 years. At the time, it was hardly possible to foresee that today we are in the country where Estonia, which did not exist 110 years ago, is preparing for the presidency of the European Union's Community of States. After all the suffering of the 20th century, both in Estonia and in Europe. But there was another element in this appeal: youth obliges, Jeunesse oblige. Gustav Smoke was awfully young. Today we are in a situation where an ageing Europe, at least some of its Member States, is waiting for an extra workforce from outside, and when it gets there too much, it is scared. But we ourselves must remind our young people that we should remain Estonians, because our sense is that they must be Europeans anyway. I liked the Prime Minister's speech, perhaps more, or the cultural reference to 1789 and the value of our coming from French history. But I will take a step from here to the middle of the 20th century when Robert Schuman formulated a number of foundations for a European value area. He said, among other things, that it is more important for Europe than the military union and the economic whole to be a cultural community in the most noble, best sense of the word. But the cultural community has moved on from its original value base over the years, linking up the right different cultures, including different religions, and moving more and more away from the original Christian-conservative soil. Yes, openness is a value, tolerance is a value, helping those in need is often our responsibility, but it must also be understood that the flow of refugees from Europe's southern borders puts existential issues before our value and our cultural community. What really is more humane, whether to send people back from the border and say that they can't fit more easily, or to continue to give false hopes that Europe will not succeed later and will adapt to the complex, cumbersome and controversial return mechanism? Responsibility is important, and it is irresponsible to take over obligations. The Prime Minister himself rightly said that the best way to solve people's problems is to do so in the countries in which they are located. I totally agree with that. We must make an effort, but we all obviously understand that it is not possible to solve these problems fully. That is why we must certainly also contribute to strengthening Europe's southern border and we must think more about our internal security than ever before. What has happened in Paris must be seen as a wake-up call, which also calls on us here to strengthen the border guard and to take further security measures. The Free Party stressed these needs in the spring coalition talks, which we did not have, and we are also stressing these principles now. Yeah, it's true we can't let crazy terrorists scare us. Often it has been asked how much terrorism and the mother of refugees are involved. They're probably connected to some emotional level. But we must not allow these emotions to go to extremes, because there is nothing more dangerous in the end than when the category of guilt is attributed to large groups of people. Generalisation of terrorist religion and nationality is extremely dangerous and foolish, we cannot do that, and we must prevent it by all means. Honourable Riigikogu! Finally, I would also like to mention a little bit of the parliamentary dimension that we sometimes call the rubber stamp here. A few weeks ago, the Minister of Justice came here before us, who basically came and, how can I say, declared war on excessive legislation, on the fact that drafts are brought too lightly from the ministries before the Riigikogu and Parliament itself cannot be a critical filter enough. We have, however, learned that to a very large extent this production is due to the need to transpose the Euro Directives. That's it. But I have to admit that I still have some questions in me, too, about going through a document as comprehensive as 'Estonia's European Union policy 2015/2019' in as short a time as we did in the Riigikogu. But I very much hope that it is a living document and will remain a living document, where, in four years, creative improvements can indeed be made, if necessary, and which can be critically reviewed in the light of the progress of events. The Committee on European Union Affairs is, I think, generally good. I do not want to make very critical remarks here, but it is obvious that the number of issues facing this committee is awe-inspiringly wide and often there is not enough time for parliamentarians to process them. In fact, we can best prepare for the Presidency of the European Union by improving the competence and capacity of both ourselves and our professional assistants, advisers. We live in a time when European politics and foreign policy even matter more and more to the people of Estonia. Therefore, it also requires more and more commitment and wisdom from us, the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U147	Jaak Madison on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please! There's an extra three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U148	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This issue is undoubtedly one of the most important in view of the perspective of our country, since the policy of the European Union, its future as a united union and the development of other Member States affect us all more than we normally know. We have been a Member State of the European Union for eleven and a half years now, and for almost half of its generations, drastic changes have taken place both in the European Union and in the world as a whole. We joined, based on the people's mandate, desire and dreams, we did it, hoping for a bright future. We hoped that, being a Member State in a united family of nation states, we could catch up with the old Member States and soon be their equal partner and ally. By 2004, the illusion was blown up powerfully, and everyone who dared to be so natural that they also drew attention to bottlenecks and future risks was branded as spiritual skeptics who did not want to be in a united European family. However, these cautious ones were largely right. The European Union, which initially served a noble and genuinely good purpose, has become, as if, a stagnated old man living on bureaucracy, trying to hold together the 28 different states subject to uniform control, all of whom rightly have their own goals, in order to protect their country and their people. The European Union is now facing existential issues that determine the future of the Union. The biggest optimists have also had to admit that the crisis in the euro area has doomed a single monetary union and the three-year period of aid to Greece of EUR 86 billion is merely an extension of agony and the endless duration of horror. Corn cannot be sown from Rovaniemi to Lisbon. Applying the rules of a common fiscal policy to such different countries, and to countries that are already historically and culturally different, can only end with a crash. It's just a matter of time and the price we pay for it. Estonia has guaranteed its participation in the European Stability Mechanism with EUR 1.3 billion, the implementation of which would also push us into the inevitable debt cycle that we have been able to avoid so far. This guarantee was also motivated by the Supreme Court's guideline in 2012, which gave a harsh assessment of the guarantee. According to this assessment, this guarantee already exceeded the mandate given by the people in the 2003 referendum, and all further has taken place without the mandate and mandate of the people. In his speeches and speeches, the Chair of the Committee on European Union Affairs stressed that we supported the granting of greater powers to national parliaments. I am amazed, though, by the one who has reduced our powers. When, to whom and why has our country's parliament given up its powers? That's where the harsh reality lies. De facto, we do not speak of the Republic of Estonia as an independent and sovereign nation state, which we must defend on the basis of the Constitution. Thus, someone has violated the Constitution and handed over decision-making powers to the European Commission in areas that are inherent to the sovereign state. The violation of the Constitution is, however, equivalent to treason and the perpetrators must be held accountable. How else should we decode the fact that the European Commission can and will exercise the right to apply forced quotas and punish them for failing to do so? Immigration policy, not to mention finance and security, is no longer controlled or manageable by the Republic of Estonia. By a qualified majority, the admission obligation for immigrants was also imposed on Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Romania, which most directly violates sovereign decision-making powers. Fortunately, many countries have the courage and backbone to go and challenge it in court to defend their independence. Conservative People's Party recognises this behaviour and considers it a real example for Estonia as well. The security threat is also becoming a much-accepted Schengen visa space, which allows anyone and anyone from anywhere to enter the Republic of Estonia uncontrolled. This is when at least 132 people were just murdered in Paris because of extreme left-wing politics and it is only a matter of time before the next one. Europe does not have an overview of how many illegal immigrants have actually arrived in Europe, a figure that varies between 800000 and 1.5 million. There is no doubt that there are few war refugees among these people, most of them being economic immigrants and Islamic extremists. It is unacceptable that there are countries in the so-called solidarity and tolerance European Union that deliberately fail to fulfil their obligations under the Schengen Agreement and to protect the external borders of the European Union and NATO. This is not solidarity with the European partners in these countries, and the European Union must strongly condemn it. This is the greatest threat to security, not to the borders and the people of Hungary, which is being scolded by the European leaders who have lost their sense of reality. In this light, it is understandable for Britain to decide to organise a referendum on membership of the European Union. It is the right and even the obligation of any sovereign state if the decisions that lead to the accession of the Union go beyond the current mandate. Unless the European Union takes back its path towards the Union of States and abandons its country plan, it will certainly be clear that there are other countries that do not want to participate in this doomed project. Consequently, I also support, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, the holding of a referendum in order to fulfil the constitutional obligation to protect the sovereignty and independence of Estonia if the current course continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U149	The debate on the first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U150	The second reading of the draft Law on ratification of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, initiated by the Government of the Republic follows. The rapporteur is Enn Eesmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U151	Thanks for the compliment! I would add, however, that I am the vice-chairman. So, ladies and gentlemen, a few words about the way things have been done in our committee. The first reading took place in this Chamber on 28 October. No amendments were tabled by 4 a.m. on 6 November and we discussed this draft again in our committee at its meeting on 9 November. In the text of the draft, a few linguistic and regulatory improvements have been made on the proposal of the language editor. The proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is to conclude the second reading of the draft law on ratification, to put it to a final vote and to adopt it as a law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U152	Thank you. No questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft Act 62 on ratification of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, on the one hand, and the European Community and its Member States, on the other. Please take a stand and vote. There are 56 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the bill as a law, there is no one against and no one has abstained. The Act on ratification of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U153	The next item is the first reading of the Bill 105 of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint Peeter Roosma as a member of the Supreme Court submitted by the President of the Supreme Court, Priit Pikamäe. Mr Kalle Laaneti, President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, can I speak as a rapporteur?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U154	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Peeter Roosma, candidate for a good member of the Supreme Court! The draft decision was discussed by the Constitutional Commission on Monday 12 October 2015. The President of the Supreme Court explained that the Riigikogu decided, including on 9 June, to dismiss Jüri Ilvest, a longtime member of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court, because of his retirement. Pursuant to § 53 (2) of the Courts Act, the President of the Supreme Court announced a public competition to find a new member of the Supreme Court. The deadline for submitting applications was 17 July. One application was received from Peter Roosma, lawyer of the European Court of Human Rights. After hearing the opinion of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court and the Advisory Board on the Administration of Courts, the President of the Supreme Court decided to propose to the Riigikogu that Peeter Roosma be appointed as a member of the Supreme Court from 1 March 2016. The President of the Supreme Court noted that the meetings with the political groups of the Riigikogu also showed that there is support for the candidacy of Peeter Roosma. Peeter Roosma, a member of the Supreme Court, introduced himself to the members of the committee. He noted that he graduated from the Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu and obtained a Master's degree in Comparative Constitutional Law at the University of Central Europe. He added that he has been an advisor to the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court and an assistant to the state and administrative law of the University of Tartu, giving lectures on constitutional law, human rights and constitutional supervision. Since 2004, he has been a lawyer at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The members of the committee heard the Chairman of the Supreme Court and the candidate of the Supreme Court and asked them questions. Among other things, it was asked to explain that if the Supreme Judge Jüri Ilves retires from 18 January 2016 but Peter Roosma only starts from 1 March of the same year, for what reason such a difference will be retained. The head of the Supreme Court explained that in the past there has been a difference between the time of dismissal and the time of taking office when the Supreme Court changed. In order for Peter Roosma to leave the European Court of Human Rights as a lawyer, he must apply three months earlier. The reason for his resignation is his appointment to a new post. There was also an interest in the fact that only one person is applying for membership of the Supreme Court. The head of the Supreme Court said it was hard to say. The statistics on applying for a judge show that the least candidates to the Supreme Court are one to three. This may mean that people do not dare to take this step, or do not consider themselves competent enough to run as a judge of state. The situation also varies between colleges. Punishment is the area where so-called "subsistence" is the least. In addition, the seat of the Supreme Court is important because several good candidates do not want to apply because they do not want to change residence and move to Tartu. The pay gap between district judges and state judges is not excessive either. One Member of the Commission pointed out that this was not a normal situation in which a person who had not dealt with practical justice so far would become a judge of state. The head of the Supreme Court explained that this candidate for a member of the Supreme Court is very well aware of the criminal court practice in Estonia, as criminal cases are largely coming from Estonia to the European Court of Human Rights. It is often overlooked that the Supreme Court is also a constitutional court. The Constitutional Review College has actually been established from the beginning as rotating, i.e. it is filled by all members of the Supreme Court on the basis of locality for a certain period of time. The President of the Supreme Court noted that he felt that the role of the Constitutional Court should be strengthened in the Supreme Court and that Peter Roosma was a very good candidate for this because he had competence in constitutional supervision. In the case of judges of higher courts, it is always more important to have a general knowledge base, not so much a practical experience in resolving everyday cases. What was decided? It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 17 November 2015 (consensually), to propose the final vote (consensually), to appoint Kalle Laane, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, as rapporteur (consensusly) and to propose to Peeter Roosma, a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court, pursuant to § 117 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, a presentation of up to five minutes before the Riigikogu plenary (consensually). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U155	There's a question. Siim Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U156	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Since Marianne Mikko, unfortunately, is not in the Chamber, I am asking you whether the candidacy was also considered in terms of gender equality.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U157	This was not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U158	Thank you. No further questions. Waitress Peeter Roosma, candidate for a member of the Supreme Court, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U159	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I thank you for the opportunity to present a brief presentation in which I will address European issues and touch on some of the points of contact between the European Convention on Human Rights and the Estonian legal order. The European Convention on Human Rights is apparently one of the most important international agreements on human rights in our continent. The Convention has had an impact on Estonia's legal order since the drafting of the Constitution; later, our legal order has been influenced by its accession to the Convention, and then it has had a continuous impact through case law. One might ask what Estonia looks like among other countries. Trying to answer this question on the basis of my work experience at the European Court of Human Rights, I say that, according to my impression, Estonia appears to respect fundamental rights. So far, there have been no major structural problems which would have led to a mass decision to detect violations of the Convention before the Strasbourg Court. However, I would like to highlight two issues as some of the concerns. First of all, the prisoners' right to vote. In this respect, the European Court of Human Rights has found that the absolute prohibition on the participation of convicted persons is disproportionate. In Estonia, this issue has so far been definitively unsolved. Secondly, detention conditions for arrested and convicted persons, including lack of space. There have been quite a number of complaints to Estonian courts in this regard. I have no doubt that the Estonian courts are doing a good job in this area and that these matters are largely settled internally, but I would like to stress that, in the event of a violation of fundamental rights, particularly when it concerns inhumane detention conditions, persons must generally also receive fair compensation for non-material damage. Of course, it is even more important to address the root causes of these issues, i.e. electoral rights and detention conditions in essence. What are Estonia's effects on Europe? Is and to what extent can we talk about dialogue here? First of all, I think we can talk here about the case-law on the subject of complaints made in Estonia. The latter could be mentioned in the case of the Grand Chamber, which caused a wider audience, concerning the responsibility of the Internet news portal for anonymous comments. In this case, the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights accepted the approach of Estonian courts in principle, finding that the news portal could be held accountable for comments under certain conditions. Secondly, two additional protocols to the European Convention on Human Rights were adopted two years ago to deepen dialogue. The first of them, Protocol 15, included a reference to the principle of subsidiarity in the preamble to the Convention. The following protocol, which is perhaps more important, No 16, allows the Supreme National Courts to seek an advisory opinion from the Human Rights Court on fundamental issues relating to the interpretation or application of the Convention. Reliance on the advisory opinion in national procedures should presumably contribute to the correct settlement of matters within the State and in accordance with the Convention. In addition, it gives countries the opportunity to participate to a greater extent than in guiding the case law of the Court of Human Rights, at least in determining the range of subjects to be addressed. Estonia has signed this protocol, hopefully it will soon be ratified. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I thank you for the opportunity to present a report and I am ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U160	Questions. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U161	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a specific question. We have before us the draft law on the implementation of the Cohabitation Act. The enforcement clause of the Cohabitation Act itself states that the Cohabitation Act will apply from 1 January 2016 with implementing legislation. It is very possible that this case will reach the Supreme Court at some point. Our view is that if the implementing acts are not adopted within this year's number, the law on partnership will not apply either. What is your position as a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U162	Indeed, the implementation provision of the Cohabitation Act has been formulated somewhat unusually, containing, on the one hand, a reference to the condition, on the other hand, a specific date regulation. However, when interpreted in a purely grammatical manner, I believe that the Cohabitation Act will enter into force on 1 January 2016. Obviously, it must be said that it can be applied to the extent that it is capable of establishing legal relations on its own.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U163	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U164	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. A candidate for a good Supreme Court Member! As you have heard, we had a European Union policy here today. As I emphasised in my speech, the Supreme Court pointed out already in 2012 that the mandate of the people to continue their integration policy with the European Union has been exhausted. What is your position as a likely member of the Supreme Court, is the current mandate of the people in force since 2003 exhausted and should we ask for a new mandate to go further towards a more unified monetary union or closer cooperation within the European Union, or is everything currently in perfect order and there is no need to ask for a new mandate?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U165	I think it is abstractly difficult to answer that question. One formal dimension on which I can rely in my response could be that a new mandate for the people would be needed if there were some major changes to the Treaties on the European Union. I can't see them coming in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U166	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U167	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Honourable candidate! What is your position as to whether the current signed border agreement with Russia is compatible with § 2 and § 122 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U168	The short answer is that I think it is consistent. My position is that the Constitution refers to the Tartu Peace Treaty as the Treaty determining the border treaty, on the one hand, in order to emphasise the continuity with the time of adoption of the Constitution, i.e. consistency with previous constitutions. Secondly, it is, to some extent, a historic provision; at the time of the adoption and development of the Constitution, there was no border agreement with Russia other than the Tartu Peace Treaty. At the same time, the Constitution explicitly states that the border is determined by the Tartu Peace Treaty and other international border agreements, which means that the conclusion of new agreements is not excluded.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U169	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U170	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable performer! What is your position, whether the provisions banning hate speech should be introduced into Estonian legislation and how would they comply with the Estonian Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U171	The subject of hostile speech and freedom of expression is quite complex. On the one hand, I am in favour of as much freedom of expression as possible. On the other hand, it is clear that constitutional values, as well as the rights of other persons, limit the exercise of every freedom. To some extent, hate speech is still punishable under the Penal Code, true, if it poses a threat to the lives, health or property of others. This means that § 151 of the Penal Code has been applied relatively little. Whether the possibility of imposing punishment for hate speech needs to be extended is a matter of consideration. I cannot give one answer to that, it is, to some extent, a question of political choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U172	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U173	No, they won't!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U174	No further questions. Thank you, Peter Roosma! I'm opening negotiations. Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U175	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I will be as brief as possible, because perhaps we will be able to vote before two o'clock. All the questions we put to the candidate for a honourable member of the Supreme Court were answered wrong from the point of view of our group. It's very simple. The Supreme Court also supervises constitutionality, i.e. it is the last wall of defence for Estonia's sovereignty and the validity of the Constitution. If the philosophy of a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court is so blurry that we do not see this battle on the wall of defence there in any way, then we simply cannot support his candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-17_U176	I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed to put the draft decision to a final vote of 105. Honourable Riigikogu, I would remind you that, on the basis of § 79 (2) (3) of the Home and Working Procedures Act, voting at the Riigikogu session is secret when a member of the Supreme Court is appointed. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft 105 of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint Peeter Roosma as a member of the Supreme Court submitted by the President of the Supreme Court, Priit Pikamäe. Please take a stand and vote. 58 members of the Riigikogu with 7 votes against and 1 abstention. The decision of the Riigikogu to appoint Peeter Roosma as a member of the Supreme Court has been adopted. Congratulations and good luck, Peter Roosma! Ladies and gentlemen, I will see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 1.57 p.m.
