ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 1st working week. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to submit drafts or questions? Please, colleague Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, During yesterday's inquiries, we had a number of important issues on the agenda that concerned Estonia as a whole. It was not a question of opposition or coalition, but of topics that are important to Estonia as a whole. Unfortunately, at the end of the hall there were only six to eight people, and most of the windows of our castle were blind. I am very sorry that I have to start today with the fact that we have not yet become united and do not think about Estonia's big questions. Moreover, the last respondent, Mr. Minister for Education and Science, did not appear at all, although questions of inquiry concerned school lunch and the pay of kindergarten teachers. Therefore, and in view of the fact that the Minister for Education and Science is very well aware of everything, we are presenting a new inquiry this morning concerning the use of support specialists at school. As we know, we have laid down the principle of inclusive education, which means that children with special needs are involved in the normal learning process. We've arranged it through the Pathfinder Centers. We are asking how it is now, how effective such involvement is, what needs to be improved and what needs to be done around. We present an inquiry on behalf of the seven ambassadors of the Free Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U3	Colleagues Artur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U4	Good morning, good manager. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I will submit a draft decision of the Riigikogu to form a committee of inquiry. The draft has been signed by 51 members of the population and its purpose is to form a committee of inquiry of the Riigikogu in Tallinn, which all shares belong to the Estonian state, to investigate corruption in the management and the measures necessary to prevent such cases. The Commission has four tasks and one is that the final report of the research should be submitted to the Riigikogu and made available to the public by 1 May 2016 at the latest. Once again, 51 delegates have signed and its contents are familiar. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U5	There are no more requests for referrals of drafts and enquiries. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry and one draft. The Riigikogu Board processes them according to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Messages. Today, after the plenary session, there will be the establishment of an HIV-prevention support group in this Chamber. The caller is Vilja Savisaar-Toomas. So, ladies and gentlemen, take part in who is interested. But now, please, let's do the presence check! There are 84 comms present, 17 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U6	Let's go to today's agenda. On today's agenda is one item on the agenda, the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Waitress, initiator's representative Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present to you the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Central Party Group, which aims to reduce electricity excise duty to the minimum allowed in the European Union, i.e. EUR 1 per megawatt-hour. When we initiated this draft in April, Eesti Energia offered a fixed contract for a year at 5.37 euro cents/kWh. This is supplemented by the network fee of 5.4 eurocents/kWh, the renewable energy fee of 0.89 cents/kWh, the electricity excise duty of 0.447 eurocents/kWh and the VAT of 2.42 eurocents/kWh. Thus, each person's monthly electricity bill accounted for only 37% of the price of electricity and the remainder was network charges, electricity excise duty, renewable energy fee and VAT. Of course, I can already see happy faces on the side of the coalition, there is no problem, because the price of electricity is currently exceptionally low. But I dare say, on the contrary, the problem is bigger than ever. Even if we base the price of general electricity in August, which is a relatively poor choice from the point of view of the consumer, we see clearly the problem. In August, electricity accounted for only 29.7% of the electricity bill. If it has been said in the past that one third of the electricity bill is electricity and two thirds is everything else, then it can now be seen that the share of electricity prices is even lower. Our Prime Minister has expressed his view several times after the elections that excise duty is in order to tax harmful consumption, such as alcohol, tobacco and environmentally harmful activities. In such cases, alcohol and tobacco, for example, are still mentioned, but electricity excise duty, which is 4.5 times the EU minimum rate, is forgotten. The faction of the Centre Party considers that it is not appropriate to put alcohol and tobacco together with electricity or fuel excise. Alcohol and tobacco are a conscious and free choice for a person to harm their own health. It's a little different with electricity. Does the government coalition really say that our children need to learn once again on peirless white? Is it a sin to turn on the heating system in the winter that must be penalised by excise duty? Electricity is not a luxury commodity in our climate zones. The State is able to influence the final price of electricity to the consumer through several components. One of these electricity prices is electricity excise. Under Paragraph 66 (12) of the current Act on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, the electricity excise duty is EUR 4,47 per megawatt-hour of electricity. The draft would reduce the electricity excise duty to EUR 1, which is the European Union's minimum. For example, our neighbours Latvia and Lithuania, as well as many other countries, including Croatia, Portugal, the Netherlands, Hungary, Luxembourg, Ireland, Spain, Bulgaria and the Czech Republic, use the EU minimum rate for electricity taxation. While currently every consumer pays an electricity excise duty of 0,5364 euro cents per kilowatt-hour, together with VAT, this will decrease by 2.9% after the entry into force of the draft. Given that the annual electricity consumption of the average family is about 3500-550 kilowatt-hours, such a family will benefit from a reduction in excise duty of EUR 14 to 22 per year. What has the government done to reduce home expenses? After voting on the drafts, the government has only said a big silence. Rather, the hand has been widened and it has been said that the market is regulated and the government does not have to do anything; it only accepts the increased revenue. It is true that, in the meantime, there has been talk of a reduction in the rate of renewable energy. It is also a good initiative, but I would point out that the impact of such a proposal on the consumer is three times less than the impact of the draft electricity excise duty discussed today. High electricity excise duties have a direct impact on both the purchasing power of people and the competitiveness of companies. The draft law reduces the collection of electricity excise duties in the state budget. The 2015 state budget forecasts an electricity excise revenue of EUR 33.1 million. In 2013, the total electricity consumption in Estonia was 7332 GWh or 7.33 TWh. Thus, the draft would reduce the revenue from electricity excise duties to approximately EUR 25,4 million. VAT revenue to the state budget will also decrease by 5.1 million euros. The impact of the entry into force of the Act on the state budget can be taken into account in the planning of the 2016 state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U8	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. I would like to ask Mr Kalvi Tõvi, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to be the rapporteur for the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U9	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed draft law No 6 amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group before a beautiful summer on 8 June. a. All members of the Commission took part in the meeting; only Mr Helme was absent. We had also invited Dmitri Jegorov, Deputy Chancellor of Taxation and Customs Policy of the Ministry of Finance, Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy, and Lauri Lelumehe, Chief Specialist. At the very beginning, before I go to the debate in the Commission, let it be said that we also took the following decisions. To put the draft on the plenary agenda on 15 September 2015 (this decision came by consensus), to appoint me, Kalvi Tõud, on behalf of the Commission, as rapporteur for the draft, and to propose that the draft be rejected. It was supported by 7 and 4 members of the Commission, with no abstentions. Mr Tarmo Tamm also gave us a comprehensive overview of this draft in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as he did today in this Chamber. I hope that this one-page draft and three-page explanatory note are also on all of you, and you have been able to review it. I will introduce the Government's opinion in greater detail here, and that is to avoid supporting this draft. So what does the government say in their letter? Both the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Finance gave their opinion. According to government calculations, if the draft came into force in 2016, EUR 31,7 million less would be received on an accrual basis and EUR 31,9 million less in 2017. The impact of the reduction in excise duty on the consumer is 0.18%. The draft will lead to a reduction in the amount of the excise duty of 78% for the following years. The draft has not proposed any sources of financial cover for these changes. It is simply said that this must be taken into account in the budgetary procedure. According to recent data, the current excise duty accounts for 3.7% of the household consumer's electricity bill in Estonia, so the share of excise duty in the final price of electricity can be considered to be modest. According to Elering, the average household consumption is approximately 200 kWh per month. Based on Elering's data, if the bill came into force, the average family's electricity bill would be reduced by only 0.70 euros per month for the 24-euro electricity bill. The draft therefore only affects the final price of electricity to the consumer by 2.9%, which is marginal, as the government states, for the domestic consumer and for the small and medium-sized business consumer in particular. Taxation of excise duties on electricity is not just a budgetary issue. Nearly 85% of the electricity consumed by Estonia, it must be said, is unfortunately produced from non-renewable fuels, especially oil shale. The total negative environmental impact of energy in Estonia is therefore very high. In this way, the excise duty will contribute to a more efficient use of electricity and will provide an economic incentive to implement energy saving measures. This is briefly two aspects which guide the government in its opinion. Overall, in the view of the government, the reduction in the cost of electricity depends primarily on the consumer and the state must not promote the inefficient use of electricity, the lukewarm participation in the electricity market by softening excise policy. On this basis, the Government of the Republic proposes not to support the processing or initiation of bill No 6. The Commission also held a discussion on the draft procedure, and these were the main issues. The question arose as to why the calculations of the draft beginners and the government are somewhat different. In the view of the Government, if the draft were to enter into force, the reduction would be EUR 31,7 million. This was explained by specialists from the Ministry of Finance who said that in 2016, an accruals-based reduction of EUR 31.7 million in excise duty and VAT came in such a way that consumption is expected to be 7611295 megawatt-hours in 2016 and that the revenue from this EUR 1 excise duty would be 7.6 million instead of the current 34 million. VAT would also be 5,7 million fewer. So the Members of the Commission who asked these questions received an answer. And one more thing was asked. In fact, the explanatory memorandum lists those countries of the European Union where excise duty is less than ours. Figure 3 in the explanatory memorandum is perhaps a little misleading. Indeed, these are countries where excise duty is less than ours, but these are not all countries of the European Union. This means that those countries where the excise duty is higher than ours have not been drawn here. Thank you. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U10	Thank you. Indeed, you also have questions. Colleagues Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! It is certainly already a tradition in the Commission that, if there is a opposition draft, something must be found, even if it is reducing too little price. It was certainly thought that there could be some measure to reduce the price of electricity, which would reduce the price to the consumer much more and could therefore be supported. Would you like to say what would be more effective measures to reduce electricity prices?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U12	Thank you. We in the Commission cannot say that it is normal for all the drafts proposed by the opposition to be voted on immediately. Maybe in a few years, it'll be the custom. But if you bring some positive nuances that have contributed to the reduction in electricity prices, it is undoubtedly going to the power exchange and choosing the right package on the stock market. This has so far significantly reduced prices for a very large number of consumers. In his presentation of the draft law, the initiator also indicated that by now the price of electricity in Estonia has been considerably lower than it had been years ago. Of course, there has also been talk of reducing the charges for renewable energy. But these are perhaps not such measures, or they do not have as much effect as they have had on the stock market.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U13	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U14	Thank you, manager. Good Commission waitress! I look at the government coalition agreement from time to time. That would be one way to help you fulfil your coalition agreement. You are talking a lot about tax reductions here. This is one way to reduce taxes. Then why don't you support it? What prevents you from supporting it so that you can reduce taxes? It is not only a tax on a person but also a tax on an entrepreneur. Why don't you want to fulfill the coalition treaty?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U15	Thank you, my good colleague. I am trying to be a Commission waitress on this floor. In my speech, I also tried to make the pros and cons that were under discussion in the Commission when it initiated the draft law relatively clear. If we now want to come to the platforms of the various parties and to the coalition agreement, we can do so, but as a Commission waitress, I would not go on this slippery path. When the discussion comes, we'll fire as much as we can in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U16	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U17	Thank you. Good performer! Today, Postimees has a very interesting article written by a manager of a timber industry company, the manager of a leading company. It is said that there is no economic policy in Estonia. He says that the primary symptom of our unthinkable economic policy is the long-standing principle that choices are made only according to budgetary criteria. I ask you what kind of economic policy studies, analyses have been carried out before excise duty was increased. It also turned out from your report that you are, however, purely and solely based on the fact that it is detrimental to the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U18	Thanks! Certainly at some point, I'm not going to say that year number, when the electric excise was raised, there were also analyses. In my presentation, I mentioned two aspects from the government's point of view: one was the financial aspect, the budgetary impact, and the other was the energy saving aspect. So not only does the government and the Commission take their decisions from a budgetary point of view. 85% of our electricity comes from non-renewable energy sources, and that is why we must also rely on excise duty to guide consumer behaviour.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U19	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U20	Thank you, my good colleague. I'm asking specifically. You spoke, and others think that the impact on people and businesses is small. I'll ask you differently. Is the EUR 33 million that you take away from businesses' pockets and consumer's pockets a small amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U21	Certainly, the reduction in excise duty is not 70 cents for one household, nor for one ordinary family, whose average electricity consumption in Estonia is 24 euros. 70 cents is a lot of money sometimes. But it's relatively small in numbers like this. Of course, 70 cents is a lot of money, but in this context it is not significant.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U22	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You were talking about two aspects. One is the impact on the state budget, which I am not dealing with right now. The second was sustainability, while maintaining the price, we make people think about how much to consume and how to be more sustainable. Why do you not think that the next quite logical step will not be taken and the excise duty will not be increased? If you raise, if you follow your logic, you will also raise people's attitude. Sooner or later we'll get to the fact that the excise is high, people no longer consume electricity, we'll be back in the Stone Age, and everything will be great. Can such logic be used at all when it comes to people for whom the price of electricity is a very important factor in their economic living?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U24	Thank you, my good colleague Mikhail. I look forward to your questions, they're always interesting and argumentable. But at this point, I think that the amount of electric excise duty is just so balanced that it makes you think, but at the same time, it does not significantly limit life's essential consumption patterns. It is not as Tarmo Tamm said that students must read their notebooks and books in light. In my opinion, the balance is in place at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U25	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have this very concrete example. Three or four years ago, the manager of the Nitroferd factory spoke to the board of Eesti Energia and the statesmen. He asked for energy excise duties to be slightly reduced for them, as they consumed 5% of all electricity in Estonia at peak times. The answer of Eesti Energia and the state was that we do not make a single cent discount because we do not want such a precedent. Ultimately, we are where we are, 400 people lost their jobs. Not just for that, of course. But that would be one step that might have helped these people work so far. In this context, how can we talk about the philosophy that we have to save and that there is no excise, say, very high, as you said?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U27	Thank you. At the Commission's sitting, I say right now, we have examples of these and these issues, how much electricity is consumed by one or another company, or that there could be any reductions, no coefficients, no systems, there was no discussion. Surely we can also discuss this somewhat in the Commission before sending it to second reading. I cannot tell you whether there are any measures available to motivate this company through the Enterprise Development Foundation, to help deliver more energy-efficient solutions or whatever. In fact, these are the levers of the country that we can influence it. However, I am sorry, in the Commission we did not have a debate on this in the framework of this draft. Since I was not in the previous Committee on Monetary Affairs, when we adopted the electricity excise duty at that time, I am now indebted to the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U28	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U29	Thank you. Dear waitress, Let us further develop the subject of the first question. You said the electric excise was such a harmonious, well suited in all ways. I remind you of a literary hero who said he was fat and in his best years. He's very sympathetic, of course, but to say that it's quite thick for every human being would be too much. He's overweight, and you can say the exact same thing about our excise duty. The devil knows how these things move at all, when countries that are more or less in the same economic situation as us have an electricity excise duty 4.5 times smaller than we do. Who said harmony exists? Whose opinion is that exactly 0.447 is what the state and the consumer need, and its reduction will not have an economic effect in any other place?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U30	It's hard to say it was said five minutes ago from this remote Kalvi Hard.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U31	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I just wanted to say that it's too late to motivate because the company is closed, people are out of work. The Estonian budget is reduced by excise duty and several taxes due to the closure of this company. So there is a need to motivate when company leaders turn to the state, to public authorities, and ask for help. Then there's work to be done, not when everything's closed and people are, you could say, on the streets.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U33	Thank you. As I said, we did not have this subject under discussion. I got smarter.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U34	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U35	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Yesterday, the Minister of Education did not show up because it was about the price of school food. Today I'm going to ask you about this. School meals aren't made on a fire for a long time, they're made on an electric stove and on all the other things. The price of school food didn't change. How much do you think school food will become less frequent after the implementation of your proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U36	The price of school food will not change because the current situation is maintained. The question would be, rather, that if we adopted the draft decision submitted by the Centre Party, how much burden on the state budget would be reduced due to the support for school food, because in this case electricity would be somewhat cheaper and school food would also be cheaper. So my answer is that the price of school food doesn't change. But it has to be said that this time we did not discuss school food at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U37	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U38	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You claimed that a higher rate of excise duty would guide consumer behaviour. Please tell us a little more about these studies, which prove that Estonian families are wasting electricity and irresponsible for our nature. What was the basis for this statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U39	I didn't say anything about any research. After all, the fundamental nature of excise duty is to direct the behaviour of the consumer and that of all the groups of goods on which excise duty is imposed. If one of them is electricity, excise policy will guide consumer behaviour. It's that simple, good Jaanus, is.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U40	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U41	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! If we don't feed the kids at school, we're gonna have non-healthy kids. Consequently, health care will be subject to a burden. The healthcare system only works on electricity. Are we going to do a candlelight operation with a razor?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U42	Thank you, my good colleague. I will try to be generous in the light of the debate that has taken place in the Commission. I will say once again that we are far from discussing in the committee those things that concern school food and how much power is taken by one or the other operational promoter. I dare you to say that we have had this amount of electricity excise duty for years. Thanks to the fact that we are open on the stock market, the price of electricity has fallen considerably now. I dare say that if we vote out this bill today, no spotlight in the hospital, no school stove or any hot water kettle that makes tea anywhere in the nursing home, it will not go unattended.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U43	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear colleague! It was mentioned here that the author of the bill has not shown any sources of cover. I remember the promises made by the previous Prime Minister and previous coalitions about how economic growth will bring more money to the state budget. And we'll probably all agree to that. Do you not agree that if we reduce excise duties, it will in principle have a good effect on the Estonian economy, lead to economic growth and thus bring the necessary money to the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U45	Thank you. I am primarily guided by papers instead of my beliefs and my convictions. I read from the explanatory memorandum to the draft law that the impact of the Act on the state budget can be taken into account in the planning of the 2016 state budget. And so he is. If it had been written here that it was economic growth, I would have said that it was at the expense of economic growth and that it had been taken into account by the initiators. But I said what the initiator of the bill has written in his explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U46	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U47	Thank you! Good Kalvi! You mentioned in your report that the drawing in the draft explanatory memorandum, which shows the countries of the European Union where the electricity excise duty is smaller than that of Estonia, is somewhat misleading. There are also these countries, and the figure does not show those countries where they are larger. Well, it has to be said that the drafters assumed that the parties involved could read and read these countries, 17 countries where it is really smaller. Don't you think this remark is pathetic? The figure is correct. In this way, one could ask why countries in the world that are larger or smaller have not been brought. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U48	Thanks, good Rein! This is the figure that I referred to in this block of reports, which was what was discussed in the Commission and which was asked by the Members of the Commission. It was one of the questions really. At the beginning of this figure, there was such a picture that Estonia has the highest electricity excise duty in the European Union. That was a question for a Member of the Commission. I just thought it was necessary to bring this discussion to this Chamber and to tell you what the questions of the Members of the Commission were. Yeah, that blueprint's clear, I get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U49	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U50	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! You must be a thorough person. If the table shows that 17 countries have a lower rate of excise duty, you certainly wondered why. Why is there a lower rate of excise duty in these countries? Why don't you explain yourself to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U51	I do not recall that we in the Commission have discussed why the excise duty rate in one country or another is higher or lower. So I have not analysed the countries why this rate may be lower on one side or on the other. Surely there may already be a country today where it has changed because it is a year ago or a year and a half ago statistics. So we did not analyse in the Commission why this rate of excise duty is lower in one country or another. We'll see. Our neighbouring countries are both less excise and more excise.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U52	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U53	Thank you! Good Kalvi! May I thank you for the solid performance with which you showed the place, and not a very high place, to one of your members of the Commission who attacked this draft? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U54	Thank you. I tried to report on what happened in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U55	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U56	Good President! Good speaker, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! Our Prime Minister is constantly promoting healthy lifestyles, as well as the taxation of the sources of unhealthy lifestyles. I am thinking of increasing excise duties on tobacco and alcohol. Our southern neighbours increased excise duties on tobacco and alcohol relatively recently. The money from it goes to improve the quality and quantity of school food, thus specifically for school food. I have a question. As Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, do you think it is possible for our Committee on Monetary Affairs to initiate a similar draft? What kind of perspective do you think this is?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U57	Thank you, good Mart! If I were chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I might consider it, but I am just a regular member.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U58	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U59	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Yes, Member, probably in the role of a representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs now. I have a somewhat philosophical question. At present, excise duties on tobacco, alcohol, fuel and electricity have all been put into one sin, although tobacco and alcohol are substances of pleasure, but living without electricity is simply not possible because it is consumed to a certain extent by the homeless. What he eats is produced using electricity. What's the reason they're all being watched together? Is it just everything that can be measured, or is it really the state budget that makes you enjoying alcohol excise duty or electric excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U60	Thank you. Within the framework of this bill, we did not open this debate on whether we should include some substances, some services, some other goods in the excise goods. At the moment, it is simply the case that, regardless of the reasons for which one or the other goods are subject to excise duty, they are all included in the same law as excise duty for legislative purposes. We know very different goods from different countries, which have been subject to excise duty. Within the framework of the procedure for this law, we in the Commission did not open this debate on whether we should add some substances to this list.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U61	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U62	Thank you. A representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Do you not consider it right, as a deserving Social Democrat, that the poorer and the weaker must be protected? If you are in favour of not having to lower the excise duty to EUR 1, do you not think that it would be cheaper to bring electricity to a pensioner, for example? Haven't you thought about that? So right now, the electricity distribution charge is made out of an electricity bill, I don't know, more than 50%. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U63	Thank you. Unfortunately, in the Commission, we did not discuss what should be the position or opinions of the social democrats. But as far as the distribution of the electricity bill is concerned, this is the service we consume as a consumer, and it consists of different components. One is electricity generation, the other is bringing it to the consumer. As a consumer, I like seeing the services that electricity comes into my household. So these services are at the prices they are now. We did not discuss it or debate it in the Commission. But I think it's a good thing that the various components are all accounted for.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U64	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U65	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr President, thank you very much. The increase in excise duties on fuel and VAT on accommodation facilities, which were recently pushed through by the coalition, has undoubtedly had an extremely negative impact on Estonia's competitiveness. This bill would try and perhaps be able to restore and improve a little. Is Estonia's competitiveness really the kind of thing that needs to be avoided from being raised and improved?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U66	Thank you. The vice-president of the Commission, the representative of the initiators of the draft Tarmo Tamm in the Commission, also pointed out on several occasions that the reduction of the electricity excise duty may help to improve Estonia's competitiveness. But, as I said, these figures, especially for Estonian households, are relatively small and at the same time considerable for the company. The assessment of Estonia's competitiveness as a comparison of the increase in the various excise duties and the possible reduction in these excise duties was not discussed in the Commission. Such a simple answer to you, good Henn.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-15_U67	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no more questions for you. Do the political groups want to start negotiations? There's no call. As the lead committee has proposed to reject draft No 6 at first reading, we shall proceed to the vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote the rejection of draft proposal No 6 by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 43 MPs voted in favour, 34 against. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Today's session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 10.49 a.m.
