ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 4th working week Thursday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Do colleagues want to report enquiries or drafts? Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Estonian Central Party will initiate a draft law prohibiting the sale of alcohol at filling stations. There are nearly 200 traffic accidents in Estonia every year, resulting in someone's death and caused by a drunk driver. We find that alcohol and authorship do not match, petrol stations and alcohol do not match, therefore such a bill. One of the ministers of the IRL in the Government of the Republic, Margus Tsahkna, has also said that he supports this proposal. The media have given the impression that Valdo Randpere has fought against it as the last Mohican. I hope that during the procedure of this bill we will also be able to persuade Valdo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U3	There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft and the Riigikogu processes it in accordance with our Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 72 members of the Riigikogu are present, no 29.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U4	There are three items on today's agenda. Let's get to the first of them. Draft Act amending the Aviation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act 83. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. The commission has proposed to put the draft to a final vote on 83. Let's go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Aviation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act 83. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 59 members of the Riigikogu), 7 against and 2 abstentions. The law has been passed. We have passed the first item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U5	Let's go to the next item. First reading of the draft law amending the political party law initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia 32. Martin Helme, member of the Riigikogu, will be the rapporteur for the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? Up to 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U6	Thank you very much. We will present to you our draft law, which has one simple principle: it will halve the support given to political parties from the state budget. Another major change is that the support from the state budget is divided between the political parties of the Riigikogu in proportion, i.e. equally. According to this, all political parties would receive an equal amount of EUR 450000 per year. Today, more than EUR 5 million of taxpayers' money per year goes to political parties, and our aim is to reduce it. There's a lot of problems. Firstly, it is often said that electoral campaigns are too expensive, too expensive. We think that if we cut money, the situation will improve. Secondly, the current generous financing system is a clear violation of the public's sense of justice. Thirdly, there is always too little money in the state budget or the situation is tense. That would be an austerity point. Fourthly, we believe that the internal democracy of political parties will be extremely well served if they have to, above all, collect their membership fees and get to live members, rather than live very comfortably in every month of taxpayers' money. As this is a reduction in the cost of the state budget, it has no negative impact on the state budget, rather it is positive. In the future, the annual amount for political parties would be EUR 2.7 million from the state budget. I don't have anything more to say to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U7	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U8	Hello and thank you! Here's the question. What happens if, for example, eight political parties are represented in Parliament? In this case, the total budget should be EUR 3.6 million. Does this mean, then, that every year, or always after the elections, the law will be amended?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U9	That doesn't mean an amendment to the law. We clearly state that this amount is for a party in one year. We are talking about this amount, which is in the state budget, and it would halve. But according to the amendment of the law, a fixed amount would be per party. If there were more or less parties in the Riigikogu, it would really change the amount in the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U10	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As I understand it, we would save EUR 2.7 million of taxpayers' money, which would urgently need to be used in other spheres, rather than spending it on feeding the party cashier. Have you foreseen in the draft where this 2.7 million could be spent in the first phase either to alleviate the problems of the social system, to resolve national defence issues or to where it could go?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U12	Thank you! This draft does not provide for this, but we are about to deal with the state budget and we have a whole series of proposals on this issue, one of the sources of which is indeed a reduction in the funding of political parties. There are, of course, many places to put this money. Our priority is probably farmers' domestic subsidies.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U13	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U14	Thank you. The question to be specified: where did this 450,000 come from? I understand that the aim now is certainly to halve the funding of political parties. But if the situation happens that we have more political parties in Parliament, this principle will lose its value.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U15	There have probably been at most seven political parties in the Estonian parliament, if I remember correctly. But there have been fewer, haven't there? The calculation was exactly as I said in the introduction: the current amount was split in half and distributed equally between the existing parties. That's where it came from.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U16	Martin Kukk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U17	Thank you. The same last question would continue. In theory, an absurd situation is also possible. While the aim of your draft is to reduce the support of the state for political parties, if, for example, in the future, more political parties come to Parliament, the total amount that goes to the political parties will increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U18	Thank you. In that case, there should be nine political parties in Parliament. I think this speculation is a little too ferocious.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U19	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U20	Thank you! Dear waitress, It seems to me that this is a clever little trick. Is it not the case that the current amount of EKRE is EUR 450000? It's like you don't want to give anything away. Why 450,000? In fact, it would be very reasonable, I think, to base the EKRE on, for example, EUR 100000. You have some very selfish proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U21	Thank you. I'll be more specific. Our sum is less than 450,000, it's about 320,000. Indeed, our sum would grow. But it is in the hope that we may be able to obtain the agreement of the other parties. I am prepared to reduce the proposed amendment to 100,000 from other political parties or political groups. We'd be fine with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U22	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U23	Thank you. Meeting speculations like this, but if there are more parties? Of course, you'll be destroyed. You'll be rejected immediately. So don't speculate, respectables! In the same way, do not speculate on the motive of selfishness! Our Conservative People's Party received no support for the Riigikogu without state support, at least 800 euros per month. We made it, mostly membership fees. Come on, come on, come on, come on, The question, however, is this: how much does it allow the draft to be proposed and the amount to be reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U24	Thank you. It is certainly possible, if we continue this procedure, to change the amount. You got it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U25	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U26	Thank you! I accept the words of your party chairman that the support of the Estonian state was 8 000 euros. Looking at your activities here, the question arises that suddenly you had the support of another state, not just the support of the Estonian state. Just kidding. But maybe we could do zero at all. It seems to me that your proposal is written out of deep populist content, knowing that it is going nowhere anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U27	Thank you, Mr. Marrand. If all the money I've heard is Americans, Jews, Russians, Masons, really got me, I'd be a very rich man, richer than Bill Gates. Of course, throwing such clues or accusations isn't funny. And it's not populism either, because it's one of our election promises. Of course, you might think that all our election promises are populism. But we are fulfilling our pledge to voters to reduce the funding of political parties, at least we will come to our colleagues with this proposal and watch when the vote is taken. Everyone shows their flag colors. We're okay with zero, by the way, but we realize that if we came up here with a zero on the remote, there'd be more inappropriate jokes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U28	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U29	Thank you very much. Honourable performer! My personal opinion is not expressed on this issue. I'm just asking to promote an intellectual debate. When you put together this draft, have you also not thought that perhaps it would be more correct and also more understandable to the people than, on the contrary, public support for political parties would be the only financial support. So that political parties can no longer be supported at all by the money crooks, because practice has shown that their party and weather trends are very broad. They have not chosen one path, but they support everyone, just in case, the ghost knows what they're doing. Don't you have that idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U30	Thank you. From a philosophical point of view, this issue is very grateful. Our party's attitude towards this is the opposite. We believe that private sector support and private party support should be significantly higher. One very important part of civil society is that citizens can support political action. So it's the other way around. Our desire and one of the aims of this bill is to increase the participation of individuals in politics through their wallets, but in such a way that they themselves make the choice of who to give and how much to give. Not in the way that we in this Chamber decide how much money we take out of the taxpayers' pockets and how we share it with the parties. We are certainly not in favour of this in order to take away the support of private individuals. On the contrary, we have wondered how it would be possible to bring back donations from companies in such a way that there would be no very dangerous nuances, whether foreign grants or grants from multinational corporations, subsidies from state-owned companies or state-owned companies, etc. We believe that this restriction should also be rethought.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U31	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U32	Thank you. I will continue on the same subject. You are really writing your draft in the explanatory memorandum so that it is also justified to put an end to the funding of political parties from the state budget. Do you think that the independence of political parties will increase or decrease if the state budget support is completely discontinued and political parties are given support, for example, to entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U33	Dependence on the state budget would be reduced, that is clear. Here, I think, we have a difference of approach. It seems to us that there are too few political parties in Estonia with a view to the world anyway. We ourselves believe that we are clearly a world-view or an idea-based party. We don't take all the money. I've been offering, and I've said no. Pretty good sums of money have been offered. Transparency will help the party's internal democracy, against what has been mentioned here, that it is addicted to either the money crooks or the wealthy companies. These are things for which parties can also be 'legislatively obliged'. So it's possible to fight this thing differently. But it will certainly improve civil society if political parties have to turn to their members and citizens to keep them going and not take money out of the taxpayer's pocket by their decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U34	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! If one of the members of the Social Democrats thinks that the Conservative People's Party needs to be supported from the donations of another state rather than from the funds of the Estonian state, then I must remind you that 80% of the Estonian population is behind the Conservative People's Party on so many issues. We do not need donations from businessmen from other countries who are dependent, for example, on Russian transit. But that's it. If we are talking about savings of EUR 2.7 million in order for political parties to have some of their own office network, to cut staff costs, or not to buy a few krings, to spend this money, even to support private schools or to increase children's school lunch grant from the state budget, I think it is very inappropriate to discuss whether we can still raise EUR 2.7 million. Do you think, Mr Helme, coalition parties will demonstrate their commitment to their people if they vote against this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U36	I don't think they show much understanding of what kind of mind is among people. I think that not only in the context of this draft, but also in the context of the very heated issue of cost benefits, there are too many parliamentary parties in Estonia who have completely isolated themselves from public opinion. That is very regrettable. They also do not show that they want to think about rational and better management. The parties are giving too much shit, I think it's completely obvious. Food chains are very long, costs are hardly counted at all. If you don't know how to manage your party with a little bit, then it's obvious why you can't manage the country effectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U37	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U38	Thank you. I am still seriously amazed at the way in which accusations about being a foreign agent are being thrown here, while coalition parties intend to give 5.2% of Estonia's land to an aggressor state that does not even thank us for that. So who's the handyman and who's in whose interests, it's probably clear in this hall. But my question is about funding. We are now seeing, I think, yesterday, the pages were on the page that the big businessmen who were accused of corruption have financed all coalition parties with large sums of money. In this situation, should not any restrictions be placed on private donations, especially when they come from business money rather than from people's own wallets and limit it to a one-off contribution of a certain amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U39	Thank you. I'm sure you can consider that. Ultimately, it is really dangerous for democracy if a party receives a substantial share of its income from one person or from one group of people. And this is certainly not in line with the purpose of this law. We want, above all, to increase the participation of members in the funding of the party and to limit the amount. It has been said in this Chamber that the election campaign could also be capped. However, as a person in favour of the market economy, I believe that there is no need to limit not how much you can spend, but to limit incomes and thereby reduce party spending. So you can consider it, but of course it's not in this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U40	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U41	Good manager! Good waitress! Waving an axe is, of course, pleasant and simple solutions always work. But I would like the whole political party funding system to be looked at as a whole if we could reverse the practice that the amount of money is correlated with the number of ambassadors in this Chamber, and not only temporarily at the moment when the so-called cartel parties have broken the instrument and the newcomers are able to get through the slot at some point. It would be good to ensure that it is stable. So I'm in favour of looking at the whole thing. Instead of pushing with an axe, we could look at the whole system of funding parties more widely.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U42	Thank you. I think this is a complete solution. The funding of political parties from the state budget is currently more difficult than this draft provides for. If they're asking about corporate donations, they're not here. I've been asked about private donations. After all, it is possible to include a proposal for amendment in this law, to set the upper limit for donations from private individuals. This proposal can always be made by the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U43	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Why not organise a public referendum and clean up private donations and corporate donations at all? We all know that there's been a lot of laws in this hall that look like some kind of company. If we have a referendum, a referendum, the people themselves will decide which political parties the country should support, which are not. Then you can line up six parties nice and nice. Maybe it turns out your party gets awful dough, but some parties get very little. I mean, the Centre Party would get awful dough too, but some would get a little less. Why don't we ask the people why we have to discuss this here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U45	Thank you. As you all know, I am very much a man of referendum belief. I very much agree that the collective wisdom of the people is certainly greater than the collective wisdom of this hall. I have no doubt that if we bring this debate to the public and discuss all the arguments thoroughly, to play through all the possibilities, then there should be a sensible decision. What kind of money would it be, or whether any sums would come, is something no one can say right now. But I fully agree that when it comes to public money, the people must be able to decide on its use.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U46	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U47	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, You can always argue about the amount of money, and according to how the country and the economy are doing, how the state works, you can review it. But it's a matter of principle. As far as I know, Latvia was recently the only country in the European Union where there was no country's financial support for political parties. As we know, the oligarchs ruled there. And Latvia realized that it was not possible to go this way. But my question is rather that what is the point of this logic than one political party has 6 ambassadors in the Riigikogu and the other 36 but they receive equal funding from the state. How do you explain that? I don't understand that in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U48	Thank you. As you can see, our draft is a compromise proposal. We are not talking about zero euro taxpayers' money. We recognise that private funding alone is the same risks that have just been referred to. How can we ensure that funding is equal? Logic is very simple. The state has set the same requirements for the reporting and operation of all political parties. The parties have different sizes of members of different sizes and different organisational capacities, and that is where their strength lies. The state gives everyone equal base money, with which they have to do certain things, are these reports, or is it running some sort of smaller office network. For this money, by the way, it is also possible to carry out campaigns with complete success if they are carried out in a sustainable and rational manner. And if anyone wants to do more, they can always ask their members for more bets or go to sponsors/donators. That makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U49	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U50	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, Interesting, I have a bit of a similar problem with Tarmo Tamm. I don't know if it's because we're coming from one district. According to a 2008 study, there were three countries in the European Union where political parties were not supported by the state budget. Tarmo mentioned only Latvia, but Cyprus and Malta are also such. The rest of the places, at least during this study, were supported. Perhaps we know Latvia a little better here already referred to the oligarch issue. I realized that for you, the ideal is not to support political parties from the state budget, but private donors could support. I think we know relatively well what Latvia is. Is your assessment that Latvia's situation in this area is better than ours? If you give up your ideal plan, according to which the state budget should not be supported at all, and only private donors will remain supported, where do you think this limit could be the proportion of taxpayers and private donors?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U51	Thank you. I think that when we talk about Latvian politics, there are differences between Estonia and Latvia in other areas, not just politics. For example, our sister party in Latvia got in without public funding, or let's say it didn't have two electoral cycles of public funding before the Conservative People's Party got into parliament in Estonia. In Latvia there is a much bigger problem with tax collection than in Estonia. Latvia has different social conditions, in some areas specifically different, just like Malta or Cyprus. I regard it as generally bad when parties fund themselves with taxpayers' money, because it is digging into democracy. It undermines civil society and deepens democracy. I think that the same problems that have been highlighted here, such as the problem of party corruption, still remain. In the same way, it is possible to corrupt political parties with public money, to change their 'euro' faith. Ideological pressure will not disappear when the funder is no longer a private sector, but a public sector. It's just different pressures. The corruption of political parties must be combated by other methods, law enforcement methods.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U52	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U53	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, For years, Estonia has been talking about the deficit of democracy, the alienation of the people and the authorities. Those in power have in recent years, contrary to what common sense would require, only increased this gap and alienation by muffling the population's proposals, by eSM, homosexuality, immigration. The issue of reducing the funding of political parties was also one of the main issues considered to be very important by the population. If the Riigikogu again abandons this decision expected among the people, what signal does it send to Estonian society?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U54	Thank you. I'm sure he's sending a very bad signal. Before the elections, our party, the Free Party and also the media used the expression 'cartel parties'. These were the four political parties that had clearly reached a tacit agreement in the previous composition on certain issues, that these issues would not be pricked. Now, in the new composition, these topics will be pricked. Of course, it is possible for these so-called old cartel parties to pretend that nothing has changed and complain about the growth of populism. But what they call populism is, in fact, listening to democracy, the opinion of the people, fulfilling their electorate mandate and the functioning of democracy. So, basically, if you don't agree to make any changes in any way, you just say no to everything, it sends a clear signal that cartel parties aren't going to change their behaviour and mind. I think they're gonna do this to their own people at the cost of alienation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U55	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'd like to get some clarity about your answers and the principles you've been trying to put in the form of a bill. Please tell me if I understand correctly, in principle, your understanding of the democracy and transparency of a parliamentary state. In fact, your proposal, which you have not written directly into this draft, is that the transparency of Estonian society and politics will increase when the funding of political parties from the state budget is stopped and legal persons can fund political parties, unlike the current situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U57	No, I didn't say that we should allow it. I said it was a subject to be discussed. Yes, in principle, you have rightly understood that we believe that civil society will be strengthened and that the internal democracy of political parties, as well as transparency, will increase if we properly enforce the law of the party and look carefully at who gives what and to whom. Basically, you've got it right.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U58	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Listening to the answers you're giving me here, I'm really amazed at where I've been for the third time. That's some unbelievable company. But that's it. If I listen to your rhetoric, the people and civil society, etc., can you tell me how many people from outside the political groups you have talked specifically about the substance and the initiation of this draft? Secondly, speaking of openness, maybe you can open up one of these details to us and tell us whose money was paid to bring people from counties to Tallinn on six buses yesterday?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U60	Thank you. Unbelievable company, of course. We wonder every day when we come to work. Unbelievable company! The first question was who we talked to. We have talked about this subject with everyone except the Reform Party and the Social Democrats. Not with the group presidents, but with the ambassadors. The second question was whose money brought the buses. This money came from the budget of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. Our budget is made up of state money, i.e. state budget support and donations.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U61	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U62	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Listening here to the speeches of old party members, everyone sees a terrible threat to private donations. But if you look at history, somehow all these old parties have accepted millions of donations from private individuals. That's my question. Should we not, however, also review private donations and these amounts?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U63	Thank you. That's true, that's true. In particular, the party of the previous speaker, the Reform Party, receives very large amounts of money from private individuals each quarter. True, they don't complain about it. Yeah, I could think about it. This draft does not currently exist, but, as has already been said several times, it can be completed in the course of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U64	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U65	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! First, I'll make some of the comments you're saying, and then I'll ask you some questions. Estonia is a democratic republic where we rely on representative democracy. Every four years there are Riigikogu elections, where the people appoint their representatives, and so the EKRE has arrived here. In this respect, I think this combination right here is exactly a cross-section of our electorate. I wouldn't underestimate the people in this room, including yourself. But one observation. You said the EKRE had never been in this hall before. To be honest, you've been in this Chamber before, under the name of the People's Union. There have been some changes, but still, you've been here under the name of the People's League. It is worth looking at this historical truth as well. But you are talking about saving taxpayers' money and big ideals so that there should be no support at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U66	Please state the question. We have one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U67	According to this draft, EKRE's own funding will increase by approximately 30%. Where's the logic?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U68	Thank you. We are not ashamed of the long and proud history of our party, we are never ashamed. The predecessors of the Estonian Conservative People's Party date back to 1990. Fortunately, the party lived through a cleansing, a very thorough and large cleansing, during which the party platform, the statute, almost all the governing bodies, and I dare say that the mentality also changed on very important issues. I really want the Reform Party to go through the same cleanup. As I said once, we would not object if the funding of political parties were to come to everyone at the level where we have it now, or if it were to fall far below it. We can do it, we can do it, we can do it, we can do it, we can do it, we can do it, we can do it, we can do it, we can do it, we can do it, we can do it, we can do it, we can As Mr Helme said, we came to this Parliament without having, in essence, public funding. We wouldn't have a problem with that. We have put this figure in the draft, just as the calculation logic was, in order to halve the current amount and equalise the amounts granted to political parties. That's the way such a sum is derived. If that makes it more likely that the budget will be adopted in this Chamber, then please, let us bring this amount down.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U69	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U70	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Listening to your answers, especially the latter, I must say that there is probably no change in mentality compared to your predecessors, because I know the People's Union quite well myself. You said that your proposal was not populism, but an election promise. One does not rule out the other, the election promise can be very populist, as your current promise obviously is. It is precisely because if you are proposing a reduction in funding and, at the same time, you want to bark up a larger piece of funding, that proposal reminds me very much of one of the activities of the Southern clown party, which got all the people behind it. Please tell me, don't you think it's a little populist?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U71	Thank you. The difference between us and the populism of the Reform Party is that we keep our promises. That's how it works. I understand you referred to Beppe Grillo and Cinque Stelle. No, we don't see any connection to this party.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U72	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U73	Thank you. The accusation of populism from a party that itself promised to take us to the five richest countries is, of course, rather strange. But actually, I wanted to ask a question about Kalle Laane's interest in who the EHRE has agreed on this draft. I would like to ask whether, for example, the Reform Party or other coalition parties have come forward to present their drafts to our group or to the Group Chair. Are such questions and wonders and accusations justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U74	Thank you. Throughout this term, when we have been here as a party, we have been visited once by a representative of the Socialists who introduced the draft reduction in the election age and asked for support for the amendment of the Constitution. There's been no more coalition. We have had contact with each other about the opposition parties' drafts, although this is usually not so formal that they come to visit the group immediately and ask questions. But the coalition has never considered it necessary to ask us or to tell us anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U75	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U76	Good manager! Good waitress! I'll continue with my last question. In fact, this hall can be 'without money', especially in crisis situations. But rather, you should think about how parties should be financed in stable situations. Why have you not put forward a more comprehensive system of funding for political parties, covering both allocations from the state budget and donations from private individuals? It would be easier to talk.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U77	Thank you. I don't really understand what the big system is that needs to be changed here. We are saying that there are two or three fundamental things that can or need to be changed. One is the amount of the state budget, which is covered by this draft. The second is what has been mentioned, whether companies should be able to donate. We do not see that in this bill. And since we haven't debated it very thoroughly between ourselves, I can't tell you if we're in a yes or no position. But I have said, and I will stick to it so that we can discuss it. The third question that has been through here today is how the grand endowment of persons who are not party members, as well as the wealthier people who are party members, should be addressed and whether there should be an upper limit. We know that Estonian law has the upper limit for cash donations, which is 1200 euros per year, which is, in my opinion, a relatively high figure. There's no very complicated system here. One thing that could be said, but which is not the subject of this draft, is increasing transparency, i.e. making reporting easier for the public to monitor and better control. Currently, political party funding reports are, in principle, on the verge of honour. In individual cases, the Political Financing Monitoring Commission carries out an audit, but basically, it is the data of the parties that goes out to the public. I guess the parties themselves know how thoroughly they are doing their reports and how many mistakes there may be when control comes in. I can say that we in our party are very, very careful to make sure that everything is in order, because we know that we are under a special glass. So I don't think there's a very big system to rebuild.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U78	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U79	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Having heard your view that political parties should at all give up the state's financial allocation and fully transfer to private individuals or businesses, I immediately remembered billionaire Berlusconi and his party as well as the Italian Mafia, as well as billionaire Berežovski, Gussinski and others from the Russian Federation. Two questions for you. Will political parties not become a plaything or a voicepiece for certain companies, companies and political groups, as was the case in Latvia in the 1990s? The second question is perhaps a bit provocative. I'm sorry! Is your goal to create a corrupt, oligological or mafia society in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U80	Thank you. It's funny, I didn't remember Berlusconi, I remembered the name of the Stranger. No, our goal is certainly not to create a mafia state. On the contrary. But, as I have already said, abuse must be combated by law enforcement. But we're not talking about this right now. We don't believe that laws are being enforced because that's what the law says. The law is enforced because it provides for sanctions. If the Estonian state is afraid and this parliamentary formation fears that there will be too influential oligarchic links between the parties, I wonder, first of all, whether they are not present. Secondly, if we want to get rid of them, this problem must be addressed, but not by changing the funding of political parties from the state budget, but by means of party law and the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U81	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U82	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I almost never get past the problem of funding political parties when I meet the voters of South-East Estonia. I would like to ask this question: is it not necessary to carry out a serious study among the people on how they view the funding of political parties? Then we wouldn't need to go to the bathroom in this hall, who's in favour of who's against who thinks so or so. The voice of the people is the voice of God. Then we know how the people's attitude is, as with migration policy, over 80% of the people think we have the wrong policy. Shouldn't we be doing this kind of research?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U83	Thank you. Well, there's been some questioning, of course. The survey is anything but a study, a public survey, or a referendum. As I said before, I am in favour of seeking the opinion and consent of the people on all the key issues of state life. I can also confirm that these meetings, which I have with people or voters, often raise this issue. For our voters, or for the people I meet, it is incomprehensible why political parties take so much from the state budget. It is also incomprehensible what is done so much with this money, where it costs so much that it cannot be done without it. There is a clear desire that this money should be reduced or that political parties should not be financed from the state budget. At the same time, it is also clear from public opinion polls that there are a number of people who share the position that the Reform Party probably represents most clearly here, that the fewer private donors and the more or more clearly the party receives money from the state budget, the less rich people can influence the parties. With all these beautiful stories about how rich people can start putting parties in their pockets, I say, aren't they now? In my opinion, this is not at all the case in Estonia at the moment that there is no problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U84	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U85	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. The very honourable colleague, Ants Laaneots, somehow misses the beginning of how much money is distributed from the state budget to the political groups. Perhaps Mr Helme will explain again to his colleague what the amount is going to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U86	Yeah. From the state budget, it would amount to EUR 2.7 million per year for its composition and EUR 450000 per year for each political party. That's a very large amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U87	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague Martin! I really admired the whole show. Excellently prepared, scenario in place, each member of the group will present you with two lines on which you can sing your aria again. Excellent scenario! The subject is absolutely safe, your funding will increase, others will decrease, there is no fear that this will work. But, indeed, you have always perfectly staged all your events, whether with torches or dung forks, you have very good scriptwriters and excellent actors. You could repeat all that in the culture boiler, you probably still have the script. No, it's not going to work anyway, there's nothing to talk about, nothing to vote about. But my question is, wouldn't you like to sell tickets to your shows? [[In the Laughing Hall.]] You'll get your funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U89	Thank you. Our party's making a profit. Also from the sale of the goods. We sell tokens, scarves, towels and umbrella with our insignia. We can make money with the show. This is very important in order to create coherence within the political party and between the members of the political party. Thank you, too, for the compliment that we have an excellent scenario. I say, however, that we do not write it down, but it comes as a natural gift. But once again, if you think that this is too much, let's reduce it. We don't mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U90	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U91	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! In the light of the latest answers, such a question. You consider it necessary to hold successive referendums. Do you not think that in representative democracy you have failed as a representative of the people if you have to go back to the people again on every important question, because the people cannot trust you for four years in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U92	Thank you, my good colleague. On the contrary, we here, conservatives, are an excellent success story. As the smallest group, we are influencing both the discussion and the narrative and the agenda. We're a great success story. The problem is that despite our small group, the people's opinion continues to be ignored and cross-roaded. The antidote would be referendums.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U93	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Martin Kuke, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to be the rapporteur for the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U94	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we discussed the draft submitted by the Estonian Conservative People's Party 32. The representative of the initiator of the draft act presented the draft to the Commission and stated that the main proposal was to change the system of funding for political parties so that the state budget funding for political parties would be halved and all political parties represented in the Riigikogu would receive an equal amount of EUR 450000 per year. The amendment would, in their words, give political parties a level playing field for an election campaign and improve the situation of small parties. At the meeting of the Commission, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 15 October 2015, i.e. today, to propose that the first reading be closed (the decision was consensual) and to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 29 October. 5.15 p.m., i.e. 10 working days (this decision was also consensual). In addition, the rapporteur was appointed and the Commission was limited to dealing with the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U95	Thank you, dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? Please, George Adams!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U96	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Members of the Free Party Group feel sympathy for this draft and we are pleased that the Estonian Conservative People's Party has taken this initiative. We support this move forward. We want the first reading to be stopped and then basically go on with it. There was a very interesting substantive discussion between the waitress and the questioners. If you don't mind, there's a few additions to this discussion first. Firstly, the representative of the people, Tamm, and many others raised the question of the situation in our neighbouring country, Latvia. As far as we have been able to find out, there is currently financial support from the state in Latvia. I certainly do not know who the grant money goes to, either political parties or political groups, but the principle of support is the same as in Germany. Indeed, on the basis of the number of votes received in the elections to the Latvian Parliament, political parties are supported, let us assume that the parties, not the political groups, are supported each year with an amount of half a euro per vote received in the elections. By comparison, although there is another way of supporting Estonia, we have about 9 euros of money per vote, so we now have 18 times the difference with Latvia. Secondly, Laaneots, a representative of the people, mentioned Italy here and spoke of a mob country. Basically, there is a threat of mafia and corruption in every country. I am not quite sure that Estonia is not on the same list as Italy. The bribery scandals of recent months do not give us the kind of reason to be sure that we have not, at least on the same level, or even from Italy, at times gone ahead in this area. The truth is, there is more than one way to shape this thing. One extreme is that the state does not provide any financial support at all. This system currently exists in three European Union countries, and this was also the case in the first Republic of Estonia, i.e. until 1934. At this time, it would probably be right to call the financing of the Estonian state over-funding, because it is unreasonably large. There's been a long discussion on this subject, but I'm glad that's what we're talking about right now. The last comment is that indeed, at present, in public practice, at least in Europe, combined systems are predominantly used. This means that political parties procure part of the funds directly from donations and some come from various public sources in the form of grants. For me personally, the general compromise principle established in Germany, for example, is very sympathetic. No matter how the laws state how much a political party is entitled to state support, there is also a ceiling, i.e. no political party may receive more money from public sources than it is able to put together its own membership fees and donations. This is probably intended to exclude the possibility of being only parties operating at the expense of the taxpayer. Do I have the right to have more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U97	Yes, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U98	Thank you! Now what do you say about all this in a bit more general? In our opinion, this debate is the beginning of a breakthrough. This issue has been discussed, but there has been no breakthrough so far. We are pleased that the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has also taken this issue on top of its agenda. This isn't exactly a breakthrough. We hope that four political parties will also be involved in preparing the necessary change, which has become known as cartel parties, but I also heard here today the term 'old parties'. It is not a bad thing to call them that in itself, but hopefully that does not mean that they are necessarily fissures. We ask the representatives of these parties in the Riigikogu, because these questions are decided here. In our opinion, this is over-financing. Firstly, it is necessary to reduce the total amount. Secondly, it would be necessary to change the system. Whether the exact system offered by the EKRE or any other system fits is a matter of its own. There are more options. Thirdly, it is a matter of freedom. It seems to us that the representatives of the four older and larger parties who spoke here are, in some way, prisoners of current financial support or over-financing, also following today's discussion. This imprisonment is in some way a voluntary imprisonment, they have themselves gone to that prison. But it's perfectly clear that it's jamming. So our call from the Group of the Estonian Free Party is as follows: Ladies and gentlemen, as members of your political parties, please come out of this prison where you have come or gone! Let's get this thing done in a reasonable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U99	Thank you. There's no more calls. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 32. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting 32 amendments, including 29 October at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, we have passed the second item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U100	Let's keep going. Today's last item is the first reading of the draft law on supplementing political party law initiated by the Estonian Free Party Group. Please waitress a member of the Riigikogu Külliiki Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U101	The President of the sitting is a good one! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On 14 May, the Free Party Group submitted to the Riigikogu a draft law supplementing the party law, which aims to regulate the principles of funding political parties. An analogous proposal was made last year by 3940 people who also signed. 'Stop overeating the parties! ' was one of the first petitions handled by the Riigikogu. Yes, through two formations, which did not benefit at all from the substantive debate. It is important for the free party to follow the principles that we are trying to lay down, both directly and indirectly, within the framework of this draft. The amount allocated from the state budget to political parties must not exceed the amount paid so far, i.e. EUR 2.7 million. The amounts allocated from the national budget must bear the target purpose. The allocation of state support should be based on the number of votes received and not on the number of ambassadors in Parliament. This also means the distribution of grants to electoral associations participating in municipal elections. The principles under which the national allocations must be earmarked and the weight of the vote becomes the basis for the support are implicit in this draft. We also discussed them in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I will also touch on this in the following speech, because I think it is one of the elements of the whole. Why are these principles important? A halving of the allocation should, in our opinion, contribute to the resolution of political pus. Let us remember how such a situation could have occurred in the first place. After the turn of the millennium, a new party called Res Publica was established. A number of factors came together with a very good election result, but the problem was that it cost a hell of a lot. Somewhere we needed sources to pay off campaign expenses. When it was in government itself, it was easy to make a change that tripled the state budget support that existed before 2004. A little while later, the amount was increased by almost 25 million kroons. The amount now amounts to EUR 5.9 million (EEK 84.7 million in dollar currency). What has this led to? Election campaigns will be financed in such a way that, under agreements with partners, the payment schedule will be postponed until the next elections, i.e. a very large part of the national allocation will be passed on to banks and other creditors. A situation has arisen where candidates do not even know about bail and its size. Not to mention the interest of the parties in collecting membership fees and legitimate donations. The role of membership fees is to promote a healthy organisational culture on the part of active members. In this case, the internal elections of political parties are a big conveyor. There's no desire to communicate with members. They are only needed for the re-election and promotion of the so-called 'internal clicks', after which they will be forgotten. This is a rhetorical question: what is the need for mega-member parties? It would be fun to collect a membership fee! But one of the reasons for the emergence of mega parties is that they will be more anonymous and the responsibility will dissipate. This will allow decisions to be made without further effort, without being responsible for the resources from the state budget, as well as for the little that is collected in the form of donations and membership fees. We believe that the current system favours public political corruption. Why? The parties are given taxpayers' money blindly. The parties shall not be required to apply for operational and budgetary plans. They only provide fairly symbolic reports afterwards. The Free Party proposes to divide the allocations to political parties by category: operating grants, election campaign support, civic education and worldview dissemination support. The election campaign support could ideally be the same size for all full lists. Operating grants would be received according to the number of votes received, and so would those who have participated in local elections. For some reason, we have given political parties a monopoly on policy making. This isn't right. We are seeing more and more that there is a more important person or group of citizens who can actually do something about it. It is not so important for communities to define lists of candidates in a world-view way. Local electoral alliances are like small parties and should not be punished for not creating politics on a left-right scale. Let us all take it in the same way. After all, we are all working for one ideal for a better life in Estonia. Taxpayers pay off their own pockets of party campaign debts, give something more from the tip of the teat to the food chain and pay for offices and other glory. Is that fair? No, it's not. I understand that political parties are a form of concentration of civil society. Unfortunately, we do not share such direct payments with other civil society organisations. It has asked us whether civil society organisations must stand above the rest of the citizens. No, you don't. We have experienced in our own right that the current principle of funding, in which winners get a big piece of cake, but the rest of them simply do not favour political competition. The result is a degenerate and boring group of politicians who do everything they can to get into Parliament every 3.5 years, but the rest of the time remains quite at the level of pleasure. I told you earlier about the used members. The same mentality of forgetfulness has been transferred to government. We collect taxes, direct and indirect, but we cannot and do not want to look into the future, because what happens if we have to start doing something ourselves and discuss matters more substantively with the citizen. By the way, a substantive negotiation with the citizen would prevent the division of society, as we have seen during the discussion of the Mother of Refugees and the procedure of the draft law on partnership. Perhaps it would also reduce the feeling of growing hatred for our country and a constant desire to leave. After all, we have worked so hard for generations that our Estonian state will remain. We politicians must understand that we are indicators of direction and attitude to our fellow citizens. We must be responsible and still be on the same stick as the citizens. You got it! I'll come up with something I've been through. I spent almost 13 years looking at one party on my right. The Home Patriotic Union had suddenly become a party that only operated by counting numbers, how many voices, how much money, how long it could be in power, with whom, and so on. It was evident that such governance would not lead to a political party or society. Fortunately, there were others who were like, and the Free Party was born as a result of several years of activity. Yes, it was not easy, but it was a genuine citizens' initiative, where everyone contributed money, time, and work according to their abilities. The election campaign was the result of a well-designed work and joint responsibility of the candidates. 70% of the campaign money came from party members and candidates themselves. I am still happy that we have proved that there is another way. We intend to continue to follow the principle of sustainable management. A little comparison, too. Data for 2010 show that Estonia is a sovereign leader when it comes to direct state allocations to political parties in relation to the size of GDP. Almost two and a half times less benefits are paid in Lithuania, Austria and Poland. The Netherlands and Latvia are at the end of their rankings with the minimum level of direct payments to political parties in these countries. Jüri Adams, who spoke above, also referred to the experience of the German Bundestag, where the price of one vote is essentially 70-85 cents. This is supplemented by the amounts due from the elections in the Länder. If we put them together and compare them to what size Germany is, and how big Estonia is, then it turns out that we still receive five times more national direct payments than, for example, Germany. How does our draft differ from the EKRE discussed above? The draft proposed by the Free Party gives us all the opportunity to find a way to share EUR 2.7 million together. My vision above is one of the possible routes. Surely we all have other solutions that would be interesting to share and discuss together. Recommendations for political parties. The state budget needs additional resources. We'll do our part. Well, that's not the whole budget, but it's gonna help. Let's be brave! We also take responsibility for our own shoulders a little, we stop milking the taxpayer directly, we contribute financially to the creation of the policy ourselves. This is increasingly expected of us when we talk again about the use of cost benefits, for example, without giving up any benefits. Boards of parties, don't make election campaigns in debt! How can you trust people who can't read the contents of their wallets and easily get the cashier down? Save the money that's gonna be a pretty big bonus for you. Keep it safe to campaign economically and sensibly. It would be fair for all of us to have the same launch conditions. It's not like Usain Bolt, because he's so fast, to take off at a 100-meter start at 80 meters. Everyone is given the chance to win him with an equal starting line, and they win him. Estonian political parties could also take off equally with regard to campaign resources. We call on all political forces to support this bill in order to resolve a number of issues. The halving of political party funding is a step towards halting the stagnation of political thinking. Let us take this step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U102	Thank you. Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I was surprised that two similar drafts would come at the same time. Didn't it make sense for you to put your backs together, maybe pick up some more signatures and come out with a joint thing? Currently, the EKRE proposes a draft law amending the party law, a draft law supplementing your party law. For the sake of the matter, you could have done it together and tried to look at the matter more comprehensively, but not so that one would touch from here and the other from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U104	Thank you. This issue was also discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Both parties, both the EKRE and the free party, were of the opinion that, after the completion of the first reading, we could really come up with a more uniform version. We don't rule anything out.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U105	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U106	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable enough! First of all, I would like to say that your draft is sympathetic and exactly so it is possible to reconcile it after the first reading. But this draft proposes to change the amount for the following year. Why don't you explain a little bit more about what the plan is? What's it supposed to look like in the long run?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U107	Thank you. Since it will take quite a long time to process the law, our first proposal is still that we reduce the general pot by half to EUR 2.7 million. However, if we do not find a solution so quickly in this Chamber, 2.7 million will be allocated on the basis of the current principle. All other solutions, as I pointed out in my speech, would remain with the same 2.7 million pots, but the redistribution system could change. It'll take a while, but anything's possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U108	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U109	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I really welcome the fact that we, as two new groups, are on the same side of this Riigikogu and we want to get this mud-smelling water out of the pond and replace it with fresh water. The way cartel parties tried to ridicule our bill was ridiculous in itself. But my question specifically concerns the change in funding. Is it also appropriate to reconcile these two drafts with a system that would lead to a correlation of party funding with the collected membership fees in order to reduce dead souls and manipulation of the number of members?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U110	Thank you. Jüri Adams pointed out above that the possibility used in Germany is that the maximum ceiling allocated to political parties has been set in the state budget, but is not paid if, for example, political parties themselves have not been able to collect this amount by way of membership fees and donations. It is foreseen that each party will be able to receive EUR 100000, but if the party is unable or unable to collect this money, it will not receive it. You get 50, for example, because he's collected 50, that's all. As far as dead members are concerned, we are of the opinion that the large parties with a mass of members of 10,000, 12,000 and so on, as we have here, are a bit like dead organisations. As I mentioned earlier, this is one great collection of anonymity. It would be normal for any board member, such as a board member, to be able to grasp more or less 1/3 of the membership. This family should be so large that everyone can communicate with everyone. Membership trusts the leadership of the party, while the management of the party knows what the wishes and needs of the membership are, and it also has the motivation to contribute more to this organisation. One thought has been that we are going to start with a zero-page, a business register, a membership base, and start with a zero-to-zero entry. The basis could perhaps be whether a membership fee has been paid or how much is invested in it from its active time, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U111	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You referred above to nearly 4 000 signatures collected in support of this principle. Maybe you'll be so nice and remind the auditorium of what happened with those signatures. When the previous waitress was asked how many people from outside this room have spoken about the initiation of her draft, I ask you how many people you have talked to about these principles and their implementation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U113	Thank you. Indeed, almost 4,000 signatures were collected for the petition to stop overeating political parties. For this purpose, a tent tour was organised from April to September 2014. During the summer, there were at least three tent campaigns in different places in Estonia, and I believe that we had contact with at least 10,000 people, if not more. We encountered a lack of trust in people, fearing that the state would be able to handle the data entrusted to them correctly. They do not want to give their personal identification number, which is required by the petition law, as well as their signature. We need to think together about how we can restore confidence. Even with regard to the legislator, there are very strong doubts. What happened was what we were a little scared of. On 18 September 2014, we petitioned Eiki Nestor. As another election campaign for the Riigikogu was just beginning, the procedure was delayed and delayed. We visited both the previous composition and the current composition of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Its membership in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs went to'read days' because the referral can be dealt with six months from the date on which the relevant committee was placed on the agenda. All this ended, however, in no way, because there was no political will.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U114	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! First of all, my deepest condolences because your presentation sounded like a serious disappointment to the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. I hope you've had enough experience in the Free Party that the party isn't really something so ugly, it's a really nice organization. Before I ask you a question, I can just give you a few words about how large political parties work. In general, they have small divisions, which usually have 10 to 20 members. If the head of the department is unable to work with 10 to 20 members, he is likely to be a poor manager. And then these departments are concentrated in the areas where the large county units come from, and that's how the work is done. Probably not all the small departments of the party board, but the heads of the department are generally known, we are at least welcome. But now the question. What is your view that in the developing countries of Eastern Europe we actually recommend public funding to combat corruption?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U116	Thank you. Of course, each organisation has a certain structure, a network, and so does the Free Party. It's just a question of how management feels about structural units. My personal claim is that the greater the benefits, the less willing they are to communicate with members of the party, indirectly with voters, etc. In this sense, I am very pleased that I have a different experience of the Fatherland Alliance, IRL, now the Free Party. I have experience to compare. The onset of nostalgia is sometimes very emotional. The Free Party does not consider that public funding should be completely discontinued. This is one of the dangers of political corruption. However, we are convinced that it should not be so large in comparison with the other countries of the European Union. We're a small country, and we're gonna get a hell of a lot out of every little sector. Are political parties so superior to other civil society bodies? I doubt it. We need to change our attitude because we are one of the community too. That's why I think it's right that we reduce these proportions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U117	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Mr Jüri Adams already touched on the pre-war Republic of Estonia and also mentioned that no money was paid to political parties from the state budget until 1934. Not only was there once in 1925, there was a cross-party attitude that so much needed to be built up in Estonia, and so much needs to be done about state affairs that this money cannot be distributed to political parties. Now, with the Free Party draft, EUR 2.7 million would be exempt from the state budget for next year. Have you discussed, or are there any ideas where this 2.7 million could be directed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U119	Thank you. I must admit that we have not discussed in the group where this 2.7 million could go specifically. But I have my own suggestions. For example, the same civil society organisations that I have referred to several times today. In my opinion, the bill that was processed here yesterday, which would give young people more opportunities to gain work experience, if the data provided by Mailis Reps were correct, we could finance this project for at least three years for this amount of money. So there are good ways to put 2.7 million, which is actually quite a lot of money. And that, I think, is totally welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U120	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U121	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I didn't listen very carefully. Would you also say how the Free Party feels about the fact that the parties represented in the Riigikogu should all receive equal money? Or should they receive money by the number of mandates? Should 6 and 36 receive equal State funding? And if that's the case, maybe you can explain it a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U122	Thank you. I said that the Free Party's position is to divide support for political parties by category. One would be an operating grant, divided by the number of votes. The number of votes is also taken into account in the municipal elections, not only in the Riigikogu elections. In addition, campaign support, ideally equal to all political parties, would also be 'worldview operating grants'.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U123	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In your introductory presentation, you called on the boards of all political parties not to make their election campaigns in debt. Absolutely the right call. But I took off the website of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, the reports that were presented there, and I saw that the Free Party also had debts after the elections. How, then, must we behave, whether we should do what you did or what you said?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U125	Thank you. As far as I know, the Free Party doesn't have any debt. The total cost of our campaign was EUR 120,000, and we did not have any debts left. So please send me a specific link, so I can see what the problem is.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U126	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Good performer! I don't know why you came up with a competitive proposal. You're the one who created this face show. The subject is just as safe as the EKRE is, because you are going to the coalition parties' funding, so it is not going to work. But if you evaluate the performance, then of course EKRE will definitely get more points. You read it on paper, you got squirrelier at the end. Your rhetoric was only lacking in crying pensioners, hungry children and tortured cats, but still the support of the entire group was not the same as that of the EKRE. So I'm going to give EKRE 10 points, you're only going to get 5. But since I have to ask a question, the question is: would you not like to put forward such a scheme that coalition parties do not receive support and only the opposition receives state support? I'd be in favour with two hands.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U128	Thank you. 'Peace, peace only,' says Karlsson and goes on with his actions. That's what I'd say. The advantage of the free party is that we offer solutions for discussions. We would like the coalition and the opposition to meet together at the table and find solutions. We could sing a duet somewhere together, but is that reasonable? I think it makes sense to find substantive solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U129	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Martin Kuke, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to co-rapporteur the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft of the Free Party 33 at its meeting on 29 September. A debate took place in the Commission. The representative of the initiator of the draft act presented the draft to the Commission and stated that the draft proposal aims to amend the system of funding for political parties so that the total amount of appropriations to be paid to political parties from the state budget in 2016 and in subsequent financial years may not exceed half of the amounts to be paid in 2015. This amount would then be EUR 2,7 million in the future. The initiator of the draft act also mentioned that the draft is in part a follow-up to the collective appeal to the Riigikogu of the Free Party's initiative group 'Stop Overfeeding parties! '. The representative of the initiator stressed that the issue of funding parties was a fundamental issue of democracy and a question of trust. 'It would be reasonable if the parties themselves took steps to reduce their own benefits and focus on policy making rather than spending public money,' said the initiator of the draft. The members of the Commission listened to the explanations given by the initiator and asked him questions. Among other things, it was mentioned that the draft submitted by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia 32 and the draft submitted by the Group of the Estonian Free Party 33 are identical principles and asked whether the Group of the Estonian Free Party would be prepared to withdraw its draft or to join the draft submitted by the Estonian Free Party. The representative of the initiator of the draft act replied that their plans for regulating the funding of political parties were much wider than those set out in draft 33 but did not see any reason why the two drafts could not be merged. The members of the committee also wondered whether the distribution mechanism would remain the same according to the draft and reduce the total amount of the allocation to the political parties alone. The representative of the initiator of the draft act replied that they had not been able to propose a new allocation mechanism for the time being, but this could be one of the further steps in the procedure for the draft act. The faction of the Estonian Free Party has had a fundamental opinion that Estonia could take the example of Germany and Latvia, where money is distributed to political parties according to the number of votes received in the elections. The distribution of money would take place in two parts, first taking into account the votes received in the parliamentary elections and then the votes received in the municipal elections. Among the members of the Commission, the opinion was expressed that the system of funding for political parties should be seen more broadly, as a package and should not be changed on a piece by piece basis. Following the debate, the Commission decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 15 October (this decision had to be decided by consensus), that the first reading be closed (this decision was also consensual) and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 29 October 2015, i.e. 10 working days (this decision was also taken by consensus). The Commission then decided to appoint a rapporteur here and the debate on the item was exhausted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U131	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! As you well understand, the content of this draft, i.e. halving the money, is immediately applicable even without introducing additional aspects, without changing the distribution mechanism. That's my question. When does the Coalition in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs intend to continue the debate on this draft or to continue the discussions on both drafts? Are you prepared to make a promise before the Riigikogu that it will not go the way that the opposition's drafts sometimes happen, that you will not be able to reject it again, but then hide it in the drawer?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U133	I promise that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will certainly discuss this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U134	Thank you. No further questions for you. Let's go to the negotiations. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U135	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, waitresses and ladies and gentlemen, on these drafts. During the election campaign, very much was said about Estonia's stagnation. This was said not only by the two political parties who, as newcomers today, have joined the work of the Riigikogu, but also by one of the parties that had been in the Riigikogu for a long time, the Centre Party. All the critics agreed that something needs to be done in the country to overcome this stagnation. These two drafts, which have been submitted by two newcomers, are not identical, but in principle both aim precisely at the stagnation that has settled in the country, at the end of the comfort life on the national purse, to look at the funding of political parties with a new look, including the view that the money spent on feeding political parties and building food chains within the party could be used more productively, why not to alleviate Estonia's many social problems. So I think we've hit two rocks with standing water in the pond. As can be seen from the stormy reaction of the hall, in particular with the draft of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the waves rocked people quite seriously. Viktor, dear friend, I have a proposition for you because you praised our company. We also have a place for guest speakers. And we can even arrange a stand-up show for you if you want. We are ready to cooperate both on the stage and at the legislative level. I want to express serious hope now that we will proceed with these two drafts. We, too, believe that we will not, under any circumstances, chop at any cost, that only our draft, just our positions. Today, it has become clear in this Chamber that we have initiated a discussion and that it must continue, these drafts must go on. For some reason, I think that the so-called old parties - those who have already been here in several formations - also come along to some extent. I only see one threat here. I see the danger that, as skilled parliamentary politicians, they may try to redefine these drafts so that, in essence, only some sort of facade remains, but basically nothing changes. This is something that is opposed by the representative of our group in the Commission, and which we will certainly oppose later in this Chamber as well. It can't just be some sort of facade-shaping, it has to be a change of substance. I can remind you of a great novel that I don't remember right now, who was the American writer who wrote it, "Dear Lost One," the main character of which was, let's say, a body launderer who also made make-up for the dead. When he was in a good mood, the missing ones were all happy faces, when he was in a bad mood, then the missing ones were very dark faces. I understand that in many ways these changes are reluctant to the Reform Party, the IRL, the Centre Party and the Socialists. But we can't stop saying that we're just gonna make a happy face for the deceased, we're gonna have to actually change the system thoroughly. I'm counting on your cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U136	Thank you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U137	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I drew attention to the danger that the most acute of this type of draft remains in the drawer, even as if there is no desire to reject it. I received such a half-promise from Martin Kuke that this might not really happen. But actually, I think we're at the beginning of a long road and also at the beginning of a substantial breakthrough. Currently, EKRE has been included in the principle of the Estonian Free Party. I very much hope that the cartel parties that have designed the current financing system will eventually come along with this. I would not like to hear such cynical remarks as Mr Vassiliev has made here, that they are safe drafts, and if the coalition does not want to, nothing will change. In fact, I call on the Centre Party to support this initiative and to give up the impertinent use of municipal funds in local elections, as you have been consistently doing in Tallinn for years. This, too, undermines trust in politicians. I am quite sure that there are people in all coalition parties who are actually ashamed of the current system of funding for political parties. They may not have been able to shape their main position yet, but they will. Political parties pay off their campaign debts and reflect on the system and also on the international context that has been repeatedly emphasised here. I think that, when it comes to whether or not these drafts are somehow populist, the only populist element I see is the proposal to stop funding political parties on the spot, saying that we can also get money from business channels, and bring it to zero. I call on the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, in fact, to abandon this rather extreme proposal. We, representatives of the Free Party, encountered this in the coalition negotiations. In March 2004 and so this topic was killed. Someone started talking about us stopping at all, and someone started providing some kind of data that kind of disproves our data on the practice of European countries. In fact, this proposal must have been very uncomfortable. What the Free Party has represented on this matter is a very moderate path. We've actually done our homework, in the sense that we've taken out the data. It is true that they have since 2010 and have perhaps become a little old. Data collection is quite difficult because national practice in funding political parties is very different. However, direct state budget subsidies can be calculated for most countries of the European Union. When we relate them to the size of GDP, for example, we quickly concluded, on the basis of a study commissioned by the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu, that the amounts in Estonia are at least 2 to 2.5 times higher than in the other comparable countries of the European Union. This is not a situation of equal competition; it was not in the elections that were in March this year, nor is it in the next elections if the same system continues. It needs to be changed. We will come to it gradually. Finally, I would point out that the Estonian Free Party is still following its proposal and words. In fact, it is possible to keep the party's editorial work running on a so-called exciting basis, at least during the inter-election period, using only half of the state budget money received for its daily activities. Hence my appeal to others. If you've paid off your campaign debts nicely, try to make it that way. It is certainly possible, the motivation of the members is only increasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U138	Thank you. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U139	As a representative of the Centre Party Group, I am not going to present the party's opinion on the substance of the draft. But I want to point out that, indeed, this is a small step in some direction, but that direction is not clear. There's a lot of populism out there. But it is not about that, but about the fact that for some reason it has been confused, which is the task of the opposition coalition. The EKRE and the Free Party are both young people and perhaps the roles are not quite clear, so that absolutely all other parties will be shot from the knee. First of all, they're calling out, not choosing whether you're in opposition or coalition, that you're all cartel parties, plus a few more shots at your colleagues, the EKRE. This isn't going anywhere! We still have to act together. If you are in opposition, it would be wise not to come up with competing drafts, but to do something that would be edible for the entire opposition, which would be rational, which would somehow lead to further action. It cannot be hoped, as Mr Herkel said, that suddenly coalition parties will come to their senses, too, and that they will support this bill by cutting off their own funding. Well, it's not forbidden to be naive. But still, put your heads together. EKRE and EVA, put your heads together and come up with something to do with something that the whole opposition could support, and perhaps there would also be sound coalition votes. I repeat the ideas I said to the EKRE. I will say exactly the same to the Free Party: do a draft that states, for example, that only opposition parties will receive public funding. And coalition parties can't get funding, because they have Estonian Air, they have the Port of Tallinn, they have all kinds of other structures where they can and do. It's taxpayers' money anyway, so why pay them double. Such a bill could really be supported. So good luck to you and then be good, members of the opposition, we'll work together. Good luck to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-15_U140	Thank you. My colleagues have no further requests for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 33. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting 33 amendments, including 29 October at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. Have a nice trip home! Closure of the sitting at 11.49 a.m.
