ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Tuesday session of the eighth working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Do colleagues have a desire to pass on drafts or enquiries? Please, Uno Kaskpeit!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U2	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, I am filing a draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act concerning § 101 (1) of the Police Act. According to § 101 (1) of the current Police and Border Guard Act, at the age of 55, a police officer shall be entitled to the pension of the years earned if the police officer has been in service for at least 20 years and at least five years before the pensionable age. Only the service can retire. With the new draft, police officers will also be entitled to pension for the years they have earned, even if the police officer has left the police service before their pensionable age, but has the necessary period of service, at least 20 years. This provision would take effect on the same basis as it was in the Border Guard Act before 1 January 2010 and is currently in the Defence Services Act. With this change, we would equalise the service of police and military officials, because the same difficult service is both, but there is currently a complete inequality between them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U3	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. I've adopted a bill. If it complies with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, it will be dealt with in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Act. Now to the messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, the bureau of the Estonian Group of the Interparliamentary Union (IPU) is elected in this Chamber. All members of the Riigikogu are invited to participate in the elections. Second message. Today, at the end of the plenary session, a meeting of the Natural Sanctuary Support Group will be held in the Chamber, convened by Lauri Luik and Artur Talvik. So please participate actively! Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 89 members of the Riigikogu are present, 12 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law on supplementing the Adult Education Act, initiated by the Committee on Culture. Do the political groups want to start negotiations? There's no call. The commission has proposed that the draft be put to the final vote of 12. Let's go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law on supplementing the Adult Education Act, which was initiated by the Committee on Culture. Please take a stand and vote. 83 delegates voted in favour of the draft, with no abstentions or opposition. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U5	The second item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and related amendments to other laws. The rapporteur is Arto Aas, Minister of State Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! It is a great honour to be in this remote area for the first time as a minister before you. I hope that the cooperation between Parliament and the administration that I manage will be friendly and constructive. But now for the bill. In itself, the proposed draft is not very substantial. To summarise its objective, it can be briefly worded as follows: in order to implement the reform of the state and local administration, and for the purpose of more comprehensive management of the areas, the responsibilities of ministries will be reorganized. The changes most directly concern the areas of regional administration, regional development, spatial planning and the monitoring of competition. With regard to the reorganisations in the areas of government of the ministries, it is necessary to amend the Government of the Republic Act as well as other laws. The following is a little more specific about what changes will be made to the Estonian legal order following the adoption of this law. The most important change is the transfer from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Finance to the area of government of those regional structural units which are linked to the planning and implementation of the reform of state and local administration. These are the regional administration department, the regional development department and the planning department and the county governments co-ordinated by the departments because of their core activities. Merging expertise from the Department of Financial Management of Local Authorities in the Ministry of Home Affairs and Finance under the responsibility of the Minister of Public Administration supports the preparation and implementation of administrative reform. Secondly, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Agriculture is renamed the Ministry of Rural Affairs. From the Ministry of the Interior, implementation of regional programmes related to rural development will be transferred to the Ministry of Rural Affairs from 1 January 2016. These include the Setomaa Development Programme, the Peipsivere Programme and the Võru and Mulgimaa Development Support Schemes. There is no need to amend laws or regulations with regard to the support for the development of the programmes to be transferred. The ad hoc grants will be allocated to the Ministry of Rural Affairs with the 2016 state budget. As a third main change, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is being moved from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to the administration of the Ministry of Justice. Currently, the ownership rights of public undertakings are exercised and competition monitoring policy is shaped by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. This ministry is also governed by the Competition Authority, which supervises competition. In order to rule out conflicts of interest, competition monitoring policies and the activities of the Competition Authority should not be governed by the Ministry which exercises ownership rights in a number of large state-owned companies. In order to increase the independence of the Competition Authority, it is appropriate to transfer the Competition Authority to the area of administration of the Ministry of Justice. Before I conclude my report, I would point out that as the draft amends the Government of the Republic Act as a Constitutional Act, the majority of the votes in favour of the Riigikogu are necessary for the adoption of the draft. As a representative of the Government of the Republic, I support the completion of the first reading, and I ask you to do so too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U7	Thank you. Mr. Minister, there are some questions for you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. This law affects local authorities quite strongly. Have they really been asked how they feel about it, of course, county councils, urban alliances, etc.? Do they have any comments, maybe any suggestions, or do you go back to reform without asking people what they think about it? These are the same people who have to change things in their lives because of this reform. In summary, do you have the opinion and approval of the local governments on this draft law?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U9	Thank you. In particular, the draft law concerns the internal organisation of the government's own work, but the opinion of the local governments is certainly important. Although the formal round of coordination did not have time to ask for the formal coordination of the municipalities, we wanted to reach Parliament very quickly with this draft within the framework of the 100-day action programme, so that Parliament could process the draft if possible before the end of the session. However, we have been in contact, including myself, with the representatives of the local governments on this draft. They support the bill. Mr Laane, President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I can tell you in a hurry and probably also what their formal written response is. They support the bill in substance, and I rather have the impression that they are very pleased that they once again have a firm partner in the government who deals with self-government issues. After all, the Ministry of the Interior deals primarily with internal security, and now the municipalities have their own contact with the government again. So their position is rather favourable.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U10	Colleagues Jüri Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of State Administration! I can say that you have really done this work very strongly and well, having seen your work in the previous composition, both as Chair of the Economic Commission and as Chair of the Committee on European Union Affairs. My question consists of two sides. On the one hand, I would point out that there is a pretty big area in your administration. You're not afraid it'll break your bone, are you? Are you gonna make it? The second question is that it is a draft law initiated by the Government of the Republic. When such an administrative area came under your control, did your consent to the discussions of the Government of the Republic exist, or did the government use the road roll policy and force it all into your administration?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U12	Thank you, good George! It's my strength. But if there's a moment of weakness, I'll ask you for help. The government adopted this draft by consensus, everyone agreed. So the consensus was perfect.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U13	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U14	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, As we know, the OECD State Governance Report has advised Estonia to make governance more flexible. Your position in itself also confirms that our national governance has become more flexible. Today, however, changes in the law are also needed to change the duties of the ministries. How do you feel about whether our governance of the state is flexible enough or whether there is more to be done in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U15	Thank you. Indeed, we want governance to be more flexible so that the government's working arrangements respond to changed circumstances so that it can react quickly. At present, major changes really require a good observation of the adoption of a law amendment. We will certainly analyse whether we should leave more room for manoeuvre in the Government of the Republic Act as a whole. However, we have reached Parliament in a month and a half, and I have the feeling that Parliament wants to give the government the opportunity to take up work. Although there are no significant obstacles in the current legislative procedure, it is rather a question of attitude. If the government has certain priorities, it makes sense to give it the right to reorganize its work.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U16	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, How many laws and regulations must be amended in relation to the replacement of the word 'Ministry of Agriculture' by 'Ministry of Rural Life' and how much will it cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U18	Thank you. I'm sure you'll find the exact number in this explanatory note somewhere. In my head, I'm not gonna tell you that number right now, and I'm not gonna take your time looking. According to the details, changing the name of the Ministry of Agriculture will cost approximately EUR 12,000, but we will not be asking for more money from the budget. Any restructuring in these areas of government will change the name, the relocation of programmes will be done with available resources. All the ministries here need to take care of themselves. So I'm sure the government won't come asking for more money with an extra budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U19	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U20	Thank you, manager. Good minister! Under the flag of flexible government, three new ministerial positions have been created unnoticed. Are they necessary and how much are the three new ministerial positions and the Ministry going to cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U21	Thank you. As I said in one of the previous replies, I think it is reasonable that once the government has obtained a political mandate to pursue certain objectives, there are certain objectives in specific areas, then it must also be allowed to re-order the work arrangements. I don't see the problem. It would be strange if Estonia were unable to adapt at all to the changed circumstances and to follow this structure, which maybe 20 years ago was put in place. Things have changed. The number of ministries is the same, the duties of ministers have been reallocated. I don't see any major problem with that. This can focus on more specific areas, have clearer priorities and a clearer responsibility. I think it's a logical course of action. And, as I said, we will not come to the budget to ask for additional resources in connection with the restructuring of the government's work. This restructuring is our aim and the government has agreed that we will rather reduce our economic costs. Next year, we will be collaborating on the costs of governance. So things are moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U22	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I am very pleased with the approval of this municipality. Congratulations! Here's the second question. I recently read in a blog that when the Ministry of Agriculture was renamed the Ministry of Rural Affairs, there could be two versions. One is that we have a rural area, but there is no more agriculture, so it is a statement of the situation. The second option is, as in some countries, it is believed that when you call the police the police, things change. People still care about it. If you really need to start doing something very constructive, why do you just start by renaming?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U24	Thank you. As I said, amendments to this law are necessary precisely so that the government can start working and take the next steps. The government's action programme has five priorities and described 1500 tasks, with specific responsibility and dates, this is the programme of action of the Government of the Republic, which was approved last Thursday. So I do not agree that there are no constructive steps, it will just take some time to prepare the draft laws. I think that the Ministry of Agriculture has long dealt with far wider issues than agriculture alone. It's more of a real name change. And I certainly do not agree that there is no more agriculture in Estonia. I believe that Estonian agriculture is doing quite well. Despite some markets falling away, farmers have shown incredible adaptability and are doing quite well. Of course, the support of the European Union cannot be forgotten either.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U25	Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U26	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I, too, am very pleased that there will be a Ministry of Rural Affairs instead of the Ministry of Agriculture, which shows that rural life is not just about agriculture. Can you confirm that the changes made in the Ministry of Rural Affairs are sufficient to call it a substantive change, not just a change of name?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U27	Thank you. These current changes are a first step. We have agreed in the government that a more comprehensive government inventory and X-ray will be completed in May 2016. The work is currently being prepared and more in-depth analysis has also been undertaken. In the preparation of this draft, we have already quickly examined, for example, issues relating to mineral resources and fisheries, which are currently under the control of different ministries. Unfortunately, in the two weeks during which we carried out this first analysis, we did not reach final solutions. So this work will continue to be on the table, and I believe that next spring we will have clearer answers, what more, what tasks it is more sensible to re-distribute within the government, so that there is less duplication and a change of name would be substantive. But I believe that an important step in the right direction is being taken now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U28	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U29	Thank you. Honourable performer! You said that circumstances require the government's work to be reorganized. Can you name the circumstances that force a small Estonia to create three new places for ministers?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U30	Thank you. I said that it was important for the government to be able to restructure its work once a clear mandate has been obtained to implement certain priorities. You have to adapt to your circumstances. It makes sense that we have flexible governance. You don't have to stick to the structure for 20 years. It was my idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U31	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U32	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I do not understand the clear mandate, but no one said in the elections that we needed to create three new ministerial positions. But I'm asking if the name of the Ministry of Agriculture interferes with the wider range of rural activities, so it is necessary to change the name of the Ministry. Have farmers or farmers' umbrella organisations been asked how they feel about this change of name?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U33	It is not likely that the government will be asked what the government thinks when a farmer's organization changes its name. It is still such an issue of autonomy and the right to organise its own work. I don't know what farmers think about changing the name, but I don't see it being a substantive problem. There are no three new ministers in the new government, there is one, and there is no new ministry. I mean, I don't see any exponential growth in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U34	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U35	Thank you. Dear Minister, With this bill, the Ministry of Finance will come under the county governments and all regional administration. It is currently proposed a model that two ministers and one ministry. In answering one question here, you said something like this: it is up to you to organize the Estonian regional administration and then you can put out the fire in your office. Consequently, the Ministry of Finance will continue to hold this area under one minister. The Ministry of Finance seems to be the real super ministry. Is this concentration of power really right?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U36	Right now, I don't see the danger of power concentrating too much. My previous speeches have expressed the idea that if, in this four-year period, important reforms at local and public administration level are actually being carried out at one point, then the work will have to be reorganized again and maybe such a ministerial position will no longer be needed in the next government. Where these functions are then transferred, it is not up to the next government to decide, but such flexibility, learning and adaptability could have a government. But yes, I don't see the Ministry of Finance becoming too powerful. There are clear functions and rights deriving from the law and Parliament has always the right to change them. Parliament is our employer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U37	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U38	Thank you! Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I know what farmers think about changing the name. Just in case, I'm not gonna say it, but I'd say one of my opinions. In my opinion, there are traditions in the world that the best tank units will continue to bear the name of the cavalry. The content has changed very radically, but the name and tradition costs. A little bit of the same with the Ministry of Agriculture. On the one hand, we can rename him as the Ministry of Rural Affairs, on the other hand, with a budget of 350 million at the Ministry, there may be a million kroon change in relation to Setu programmes and so on. So that doesn't make a big difference. I'm asking if the new name doesn't create too many expectations. In fact, rural education, public transport and medical care in the countryside, roads etc. are not in the hands of the Ministry. What if there are too many expectations for a new name that doesn't really change things very much?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U39	Thank you. As I said, we are doing a more thorough analysis of the division of administration and the organisation of work. If we reach the point next spring that something is needed or it makes sense to take something further under the Ministry of Rural Affairs, we will certainly do so. By then, there will be more wisdom.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U40	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U41	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Waitress! Since the physiological resources have increased, instead of five kilos of brains, have these 15 kilos of brains thought that, as part of the administrative reform, kindergartens and school support services will also be administered nationally? How is this ensured? Is that what you're up to or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U42	Thank you. The question goes a long way from the content of this bill. I wouldn't stop at it any longer. However, in the context of the reform of local administration and the reform of the state, we will certainly review in substance all the functions currently performed by the public sector, either at national or local level. So this job is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U43	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U44	I will come back to my question once again. You told me that the circumstances have changed, and that is why new positions and an increase in the payroll have to be made. Perhaps you'd like to mention some of the circumstances that have led to these reorganisations? As far as I am concerned, these circumstances have not changed; the Human Development Report told us that for seven years we have stood at zero both in terms of our economic and social development. What, then, has changed? Name me a situation that's changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U45	In the city of Tallinn, the wages of city leaders are also significantly increased, although the circumstances have not changed here. It has changed, for example, that there is a new coalition that has decided to implement local and state reform. This is an important change, there is a broad political consensus that the administrative reform must be implemented. A separate worker has been hired to prepare for this reform. It's a simple example. There has never been such a broad political consensus in the government to carry out any reform. Now it is and it is reasonable that someone is responsible for the execution of this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U46	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! During your term of office, how much have you met with representatives of municipalities and local governments? How has the planned reform been adopted so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U48	We're going a little ahead of this bill again. I would not like to go into the details now and talk about the reforms that are still under preparation. In general, however, there is a very favourable attitude towards administrative reform. There is a expectation that something will finally happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U49	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I read in the bill that county governments and county authorities are coming into your jurisdiction. Does their activities change anything from now on?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U51	The only change in this draft is that their 'employer' is not the Minister of the Interior, but the Minister of State Administration. It won't bring any more changes. They move to the administration of the Ministry of Finance, where the Minister of Public Administration is also physically located. There will be no further changes to this draft, but of course this work and possible changes will be forthcoming. These are the next steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U52	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U53	Thank you. Dear Arto Aas! As you mentioned in the introduction, it follows from the fact that you are here before the Riigikogu with this bill, from the priorities of the first 100 days of government, that you were given the task of redefining ministries and confusing responsibilities. You also have other tasks in the 100-day priorities of the Government of the Republic. In the first eight weeks, you've reached the renaming of the ministries, six weeks left. Within six weeks, will you also be able to fulfil your obligation to support local authorities by investing in kindergarten places for all?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U54	Yeah, we can, these programs are on. There are a number of programmes where local authorities receive grants to create kindergartens and childcare facilities. They are entering a decisive phase and will become part of the towns of Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu and small rural areas. I believe that the country, the European Union and local authorities could already achieve a year-to-two break in order for day-care places to disappear.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U55	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U56	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, When news came that both the state's real estate and spatial planning would be in the hands of a minister, some architects thought that we now had a state architect. As a result, I have a question. Is there any hope that, now that the state's real estate and spatial planning are in the hands of one minister, there will be such a criterion as the quality of the living environment, both in the award criteria for public procurement and in the performance of the task of the general activity of Riigi Kinnisvara AS?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U57	Thank you. Hope is always there, and I am open to suggestions. We are actually in the process of amending the Public Procurement Act, so that soon these proposals will also be on Parliament's desks.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U58	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U59	Thank you. Good minister! It's rather strange to hear you come here and say you can't answer any questions properly because you're just collecting wisdom, analyzing and doing research, and working on policy making. However, as a minister with such a reputation, you should have a very clear idea of how you will increase the financial autonomy of local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U60	Thank you. Yeah, I have this idea, but it has nothing to do with this bill. I simply want to remain within the framework of this draft, out of regularity and respect for Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U61	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You said that you did not ask farmers for an opinion on the name of the Ministry of Agriculture and that it was government law to change it. I agree that there is such a right legally, but I know what they think about it and what farmers feel about it, especially in these difficult times. I believe that the government should consult farmers on this issue. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U63	Thank you. I believe that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs may also ask the agricultural organisations what they think about this change of name, unfortunately that will certainly not come. Rather, however, I think that farmers are more concerned about whether there is somewhere to sell their produce and what comes from nearby markets. This is a more substantive concern than changing the name of the ministry. But I can certainly either find out myself or the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which is working on the draft, can find out that position.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U64	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U65	Thank you. Dear Minister, When you answered one of the previous questions, you said that nothing changes in the work of county governments but subordinates, they go under the Ministry of the Interior under the Ministry of Finance. For more than 20 years, when they were under the Ministry of the Interior, one thing changed over and over again. As the party cartel system developed, initially independent county elders were politicised, and very brutally. Do you think it's wise to keep this shit going?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U66	Thank you. I agree that the role of rural governments, the role of rural elders, has certainly changed in time. What happens to them next is the question of the following drafts. But I believe that this is a simpler issue than administrative reform. There are already fewer mayors. It's easier to negotiate with them. The government is once again playing a key role in these reorganisations. So let's keep thinking. If anyone feels he has been forced to party, that is definitely a problem, and I suggest you turn to the law enforcement authorities. That's all I can comment on right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U67	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U68	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, My question is, in a sense, specific to the previous question. Innar Mäesalu, former Head of State of Läänemaa, took up work last October as a member of the previous Riigikogu. From there until now, for the eighth month, the head of Läänemaa is the acting governor of the country. I guess that's what you're gonna tell me about the need for a rural elder. Are you ever going to name a governor in Läänemaa again?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U69	Thank you. Once again, this bill is not the issue, but the mayor is definitely coming to Läänemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U70	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U71	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Change certainly needs to be managed and directed, and in this sense it is the right step in the right direction. You have mentioned the word 'functionality' several times today. If we're thinking about spatial planning, it's been under the administration of the Ministry of the Interior, and now he's moving into the administration of the Ministry of Finance. However, it has been said very much, and several times, at the level of specialists, that it should move to the Land Office under the administration of the Ministry of the Environment. Is this step right and taken in the direction of functionality?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U72	Thank you. Yes, the analysis and preparation of this draft also suggested the idea of moving spatial planning to the administration of the Ministry of the Environment, but it has its drawbacks. It was found to be better to keep this knowledge in the Ministry of Public Administration portfolio, because it will provide the necessary expertise, the essential competence that will help us prepare for the local administrative reform. Perhaps in the future, perhaps in the spring of next year, we will come to a different understanding, but right now it is important that spatial planning be in the toolbox that is necessary for reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U73	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U74	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. The term of office of several mayors has already ended or is about to end. Has the coalition agreed with each other who will receive what kind of country estate?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U75	Thank you. Once again, I say that this is not an issue that is currently under discussion, but the candidates will certainly be found in the near future and the coalition will discuss them. My wish is to move forward with these decisions as soon as possible so that the transition period does not delay. I agree that this period may have gone too long in Läänemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U76	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns mining and oil shale mining. Currently, oil shale mining is under the administration of the Ministry of the Environment, for example, the Ministry of the Environment proposes to allocate mining quotas to the Riigikogu. Have you been under discussion or have you thought that since mining is a large and strategically important industry for Estonia, it would be wise to move this area under the Ministry of Economic Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U78	Thank you. Yeah, we analyzed the matter of mineral resources. In fact, political readiness or attitude exists so that the management of mineral resources can move to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and everything that concerns the environment and its protection remains within the Ministry of the Environment. Where exactly the limits of these functions run, it requires a little more thorough preparation, in two weeks it was not possible to do so professionally. In particular, these negotiations are held by the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications themselves; the Minister of State Administration is here as a mediator to help them hold this debate. I believe that by spring next year, we will have a precise plan of how and what functions will remain in one area of administration and which functions will remain in another. This will create new working arrangements for mineral extraction, a new picture, and we may be getting better results in a few years.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U79	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U80	Thank you. Good minister! You argued before that the change of name would help to improve the work on the substance. Please explain how the appointment of the Ministry of Agriculture as the Ministry of Rural Affairs will help farmers find export markets better than so far!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U81	Thank you. It's not like changing the name is gonna help, I agree. But the new name better reflects the ministry's activities, which are no longer confined to agriculture alone. In addition, we hand over certain programmes. So, of course, changing the name does not open new doors anywhere, which does not mean that this change is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U82	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U83	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I am sincerely pleased that my proposal to turn the Ministry of Agriculture into the Ministry of Rural Affairs, made in this very hall in 2008, is starting to come true. Actually, it's been a natural process. All four previous agriculture ministers have taken steps to make rural diversification, food production in rural areas, etc. as important as agriculture. This area, as you said, is far wider than agriculture alone. My question is that the more integrated the European Union becomes, the more the division between farmers and rural enterprises in Central Europe and ours will be affected, for example, in terms of levels of support. Will we continue to fight for fair and equal competition, whether it remains among the priorities of the new minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U84	Thank you. This question goes very far again from the content of the draft we are debating. But yes, just as all members of the Estonian Government have fought to have a level playing field with farmers in Western Europe, the Minister of Rural Affairs, who is already in office, will certainly do so. I don't think there's gonna be any major change of direction here. That is definitely a priority.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U85	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Your reform aims at reducing duplication and more effective work. In a traditional sense, this means that the work that several people are doing today can be done by one person in the future. Hence the question: how many officials and employees will be reduced as a result of this more effective work?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U87	Thank you. Again, this is not the subject of this bill. If you give a more substantive answer, it has been agreed in the government that the number of state earners must decrease, because Estonia's population will not grow now either and this proportion must not become more burdensome. The order of magnitude is 0.7 to 1% per year, which means that 700 to 1 000 government-paid jobs are expected to fall a year. But this is already the result of other structural reforms; it is not directly related to changes to the Government of the Republic Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U88	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U89	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You quite rightly confirmed that the role of the farmers has changed. Unfortunately, they have become political country elders, whose main tasks are to open up the swings of the village, to bring flowers and cake to their ladies, and to organise other funded events. County governments have become such political offices and have also become a springboard for the Riigikogu. If your political slogan is 'Certainly forward! ', are we going to continue in exactly the same way as these political country elders, or do you want to change this function or lose it at all? You didn't answer the previous questions, so I'm gonna ask you again.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U90	Thank you. For me, it's important that the mayor candidate is strong as a person so that he knows the job. It does not matter to me whether he is a member of a party or not. Being a politician myself, I do not condemn people when they have defined themselves in a party. I think it would be strange to do this in Parliament. The party ticket is not the most important figure, certainly not for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U91	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned earlier that the people have given the coalition a mandate, a mandate to set up new ministries and to recruit new ministers. It is exactly like the increase in excise duty that the people allegedly agreed to this in the elections. I am asking, in this regard, whether the people still have any surprises like this, to which they have given a mandate, but of which the people themselves know nothing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U93	Thank you. Life always offers surprises.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U94	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U95	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you, Minister. You answered my first question that my question does not concern this bill, but in § 9 of the bill, my question is very nicely worded in a beautiful legal language. As a result, I wonder whether changing the name is to mislead the public or to minimize misleading information. In other words, if the name is changed, there must be a reason for it to either reduce misleading information or increase misleading information.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U96	As has been said several times, the Ministry of Agriculture's conversion into the Ministry of Rural Affairs must be made more consistent with the content of the Ministry's work. If, for example, you think of PRIA, which is subordinate to the Ministry of Agriculture, there are many other areas of activity, not just agriculture. It's that wish. There's no information ops, there's no confusion in Linnar Priimäe's article, nothing like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U97	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U98	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. County centers, county towns are often in a position that nobody owns. They also do not receive grants from the PRIA. Do they belong to the countryside? They also do not receive much support from urban projects because they are not so large as to be able to compete there with others. What's your opinion on the position you're in at local government centers, county centers?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U99	Thank you. This question would require a longer answer. The programs have a lot of details. I do not agree that county centres are not getting money from anywhere, from the urban area programme they will definitely get it. However, this is again not the content of this draft, which is why I would not respond further here. If there are more concrete proposals, we can look at it in detail. We can meet separately, I'm ready for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U100	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U101	Thank you. Good minister! In order for the development of the Estonian state to move forward, we certainly need a state reform. Unfortunately, I do not understand clearly the specific draft which is responsible for the implementation and coordination of the state reform as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U102	Thank you. Since the state reform involves a wide range of administrative areas, it is of course the responsibility of the government as a whole, but preparatory work and analysis is the responsibility of the Minister of Public Administration. This is what we are doing now, and in fact, we already have a number of things going on. If you did not read it here, I am not surprised, because it is not the content of this draft, but this reform is to transport the Minister of State Administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U103	Thank you, Minister. No more questions for you. As representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, guests, Minister! This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Tuesday 26 May 2015. Jüri Adams, Andre Sepp, Andres Anvelt, Mart Nutt, Mikhail Stalnukhin, who left 13.41, and Priit Toobal, who left 13.41. Adviser-secretarial director Erle Eneveer and advisers Karin Tuulik and Kristo Varendi also participated. There was no Martin Kukk. Invited were Arto Aas, Minister of State Administration, Marlen Piskunov, Head of the Public Administration and Public Service Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Kaidi Meristo, Adviser to the same department. The minister gave an overview of the bill, just as he gave it to you right before me. What was discussed and asked at our committee meeting? The members of the Commission heard the Minister's explanations and asked him further questions. Among other things, there was interest in the high costs of the proposed changes to the draft and the planned changes to the state budget this year. Just as the Minister answered your questions, he replied in the Commission that no extra money from the state budget would be recommended for the implementation of the changes and would be made at the expense of internal resources. The Minister could not say exactly how much it would cost to make changes, but he promised that this could be clarified later. The Commission was also asked whether it would be better and more convenient if, for example, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications were renamed the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The Minister's answer was that the Government of the Republic has not discussed such a change at the moment, and this is likely to be the next year when a major government inventory is scheduled to be carried out. The Minister was asked to explain what the term'spatial planning' means in the context of the draft. The Minister explained that spatial planning is carried out by a department in the Ministry. In particular, this department deals with the various planning activities of land-area planning, county planning and country-wide planning, but they also analyse population and demographic processes more widely. Since quite a number of questions were asked about spatial planning following the previous presentation, I'm going to dissect this concept a little bit. The concept of spatial planning was introduced in the European Charter for Regional/Spatial Planning, which was approved at the Ministerial Conference of the Council of Europe in 1983. According to the Charter, spatial planning provides a geographical expression for economic, social, cultural and environmental policies in society. According to § 1 (3) of the current Planning Act, spatial planning within the meaning of that Act is democratic, coordinating and integrating development plans for different areas of life, functional, long-term spatial development planning that takes into account the long-term trends and needs of the economic, social and cultural environment and the development of the natural environment in a balanced manner. There was also the question of how the amendment to the Electricity Market Act provided for in § 4 of the draft law relates to the restructuring of the main draft package. The representative of the Ministry explained that this amendment repeals those provisions of the Electricity Market Act which have already lost their substance. As explained, this means that the repealed Chapter 61 of the Electricity Market Act, entitled "Authorisation fee subsidy' and § 1091 of the Electricity Market Act, regulates the issues relating to the support paid to persons living in disincentived areas whose household had, for whatever reason, lost power or had never had electricity connection. It was also asked to explain why the provision of the Act provides for different periods of entry into force for different sections. A representative of the Ministry replied that the restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture into the Ministry of Rural Affairs would enter into force in general terms. On 1 September 2015, the provisions governing the transfer from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Finance and the transfer of the Competition Authority to the Ministry of Justice should enter into force. The Minister added that the entry into force provisions should be reviewed during the procedure of the draft, as the Ministry of Agriculture has requested that a specific date of entry into force be set for the amendments concerning them. The members of the committee wondered whether the changes proposed by the draft, which concern local governments, were coordinated with the Association of Estonian Rural Governments and the Union of Estonian Cities. The minister gave you the same answer he gave you in the saalisk. The Commission also decided to seek views from EMOL and the ELL in writing. Just before the first reading of the bill in this Chamber, I checked, but the answers had not yet been received. We agreed that, in the absence of these answers in the coming days, we would invite the representatives of EMOL and the ELL to a second-reading debate by the Commission. What did the Commission decide? It was decided to propose a draft on the plenary agenda. a on 2 June (consensually), proposing the completion of the first reading (by 4, 2 against, 2 abstentions1), proposing a deadline for amendments. a 5 June at 15 p.m. (for 4, 2 votes against, 1 abstention) to appoint Mr Kalle Laanet, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur (consensually), to send the draft to second reading. a 10 June when the first reading is completed (consensus decision) and the third reading (s). a by 11 June when the second reading is closed (also a consensual decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U105	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. My colleague Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U106	Thank you. Good chairman of the committee! Do you also have any information that the departure of some of the members of the committee at 1:41 was somehow related to the procedure for this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U107	Thank you, good questioner! I haven't identified the reasons why they left.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U108	George Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! You said in your presentation that the Commission was also interested in the cost of the amendments and that the Minister promised to clarify the cost. Has the Minister informed the Commission of the budgetary cost of all this, and is it also the Commission's position to conclude the first reading of the draft 36 after the Minister's reply?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U110	Thank you, good questioner! The Minister gave us the same answer he gave in this big hall. He said that there would be no extra budgetary expenditure, but exactly how much some restructuring costs within the budget would cost, he did not know at the time, and until now no additional information has been received by the Commission either. I think that this information would be, above all, a detail of the fact that no additional money will be asked, and my opinion is that this will not affect the Commission's decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U111	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U112	Thank you. Good colleague! The draft states precisely that the county governments are in the hands of the Ministry of Finance. My question is whether the county governments are now getting richer and some of the projects that local authorities are doing can go to the county government and ask for money to implement these projects.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U113	Thank you, Honourable Asker. This bill does not state whether they will be richer or not, and we did not discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U114	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U115	Thank you. Good waitress! If I understood the Minister's response correctly, there is no clear responsibility for the reform of the state. Did the Commission take a position on whether and how much is the Commission itself prepared to lead the issue of state reform and take responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U116	I believe that political responsibility, as I have read in the media, is borne by two ministers, the Prime Minister and the Minister of State Administration. And, of course, all the politicians who deal with this subject bear exactly the same responsibility, as I, as the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, because the basic procedure is still there. I'm sure we're all in charge.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U117	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, According to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the deadline for amendments to draft laws is 10 working days. On this draft law, the Commission decided to give three working days to make proposals. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Commission is required to indicate with such a decision the reasons why a shorter period is fixed than normal. Perhaps you can report from the protocol the reason for what has been written in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act, why the deadline is three working days instead of ten days?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U119	Thank you, Mr President. I ask you the same question I asked the chairman of the committee. The Management Board of the Riigikogu is, of course, the one who, according to the Labour and Rules of Procedure Act, sets the deadline for amendments on a proposal from the Commission. If the normal deadline is 10 working days, this time the Governing Board shall set the deadline three working days. Can you read us the reason the Commission sent you? Why did the Commission propose three working days instead of ten working days as usual?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U120	Thank you, dear colleague. We have the exact same information and justification you have just heard from the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Let's keep going... Colleagues Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U121	Thank you, Mr President. This information cannot be true because there is no such indication in the Commission's minutes. How, then, did you hear this information, which is why the Commission proposes to set a deadline of three working days and not ten working days?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U122	We were aware of the Commission's proposal, and that is what we came from.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U123	One of the most important reasons was the request by the Minister for Public Administration and the Government to process the draft as soon as possible in order to have a legal framework for taking up work.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U124	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U125	Thank you, good manager. Good speaker! You said just a moment ago that you have received information from the media that two ministers are involved in this area. Is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs only receiving information through the media in its work, or do you have other sources of information?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U126	Honourable questioner, thank you for such a sharp question. I believe there are other sources of information, we take the coalition agreement, we take the laws and the constitution. So there's enough information.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U127	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions. The commission has proposed that the first reading of the draft 36 be completed. Before that, I will ask the groups whether they want to negotiate. There's no call. I will set the deadline for submitting 36 amendments. a 5 June at 3 p.m. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U128	We will move on to the third item: First reading of Bill No 2 of the Estonian Centre Party's Group's Bill No. 48 supplementing the Income Tax Act. Kadri Simson, member of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment to § 48 of the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Centre Party, includes a proposal that in the future the employer's expenses to cover the expenses incurred by the employee or staff member in dealing with sport should not be considered as a special advantage. In doing so, we want to impose a financial limit that these costs must not exceed EUR 500 per employee or staff member per year and must relate directly to the use of sports facilities or the organisation of sporting events. Such expenditure shall also include fees for participating in recreational or health sports events. This bill has a longer history, and since I see a number of people in this Chamber who were not part of the previous or previous Riigikogu, I will introduce you to the story of the creation of the bill. Namely, in 2009, during the XI Riigikogu, the government coalition at the time, which had the same composition as the current reform party, the IRL and the Soviets, made major cuts. One of these cuts meant that while the employee still covered sick days, no one covered the first three days, and from the fourth to the eighth day of illness, the burden was borne by employers. Of course, this led to some opposition. The articles revealed that the obligation to pay for sick days caused employers to boil, and then a promise was made that employers would also receive something in return that they would like to contribute more to human health. This'something back' could have been the occasion that employers would not have to pay a special incentive tax if they invested in the health of their employees. Let me remind you that when they invest in machines, they don't have to pay the tax, but investing in people is subject to an extra tax. Unfortunately, the cut was done, the extra burden was put on employers, but the theoretical response to employers who contribute to the health of their employees was not forthcoming. And so in 2009 the Central Party Group first initiated a draft amendment to § 48 of the Income Tax Act. It was voted out in the XI Riigikogu. We came to the Riigikogu again with the same bill in 2012. Then they acted more politically: no one was directly opposed; the first reading was completed. But the draft remained in the drawer of the Chairman of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu and fell out in connection with the elections. And now we are in front of the third Riigikogu with the same bill. Once again, the situation is that no one is opposed to the saying that sometime we will do it, but whether it will happen during the composition of this Riigikogu or sometime in the coming years of this century, it is not clear. Why is it important that people have better health? The calculations by the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work show that every euro invested in promoting the health of workers will give the economy a return of EUR 2.4.4.8. Over the years, the idea has been that the employer should not pay a special discount tax, supported by the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Estonian Taxpayers' Association, the Estonian Company Sports Association and the Estonian Chamber of Entrepreneurial Youth. Briefly summarise all their explanations, the state of health of a sports worker is better than that of a non-sporting worker, as well as the ability of such a worker to cope with his daily life. The benefits will therefore be gained by both the worker, the employer and society in general, as the whole worker will not be a burden on the health care system. But at present, the sports costs paid by the employer fall under the special bonus and the additional fee is payable if the company wants to cover the employee's participation in a public sports event, for example, or pays for swimming pools during the year. We're in a situation where money invested in a machine doesn't go under the extra tax, but an investment in a person goes under the extra tax. Sometimes these draft laws have been taken out of the drawer of the Chairman of the Monetary Commission in the Riigikogu. For example, a year ago, when the Reform Party changed its partner, the IRL already knew he was going out of government, and the Social Democrats were negotiating, Sven Sester, Chairman of the Monetary Affairs Committee, who had marinated this bill in a drawer for a year and a half, on 13 March, took the draft out of the drawer and proposed that we take it to second reading. Unfortunately, 5: 5 did not get to the Riigikogu Hall again. The Reform Party opposed them and they were supported by Socats at the time. In fact, it seems that it is the Reform Party who does not want to relieve employers. But to some extent, we've moved a step forward. During the discussion of this draft, an official of the Ministry of Finance has already said that the Ministry is looking positively at possible tax exemptions. And not only has the Ministry of Finance changed its mind with the new minister. Other ministries have also said that one of the priorities in Estonia should be that the people of Estonia live healthier. Studies are being carried out internationally on how people's health is happening in one EU country or another. One of these studies measures the healthy lives of people in European countries for years. This is the time of a person's life that is likely to pass without major health problems, without chronic diseases. This indicator is used to assess the health of the population as an economic factor, to measure the working capacity of older workers and to monitor progress in access to, quality and sustainability of health services over time. According to this statistics, the number of years of healthy lives of Estonian men is the smallest in the European Union. According to the latest statistics, if a girl is born, we can now assume that she will live to 82 years of age, the birth of a boy to 72 years of age. Without chronic health problems, women have an average of 57 years, and men have the worst figure in Europe: 53 healthy years. At the same time, several Estonian development plans have set the goal of improving people's health. For example, the population health development plan 2009 has set the target of 2020 and is also repeated in the development plan of the Ministry of Social Affairs so that the number of healthy life years can increase. This period could be extended to at least 60 years of age, or seven years. But there is little to show for real action to achieve the goal set. It has been said that these actions could be something such as ensuring a health-friendly environment for living, working and learning and promoting healthy choices and a healthy lifestyle. Clearly, it is also in the interests of workers' health if the employer can support the exercise of staff without paying the special benefit. The latest statistics show that the average number of years of healthy life has not increased in Estonia over the years. Instead, the indicator made a six-month return in the years of the crisis. One reason may have been that we had an economic crisis and that people simply did not have the money to take care of their health. Why should the health of the population still be important to the economy? Poor public health has a negative impact on labour supply and productivity, as well as on overall welfare growth. The economic damage caused by poor health is estimated to be 6 to 15% of GDP in Estonia. Since 2009, we have discussed again and again in the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu why it is not possible to exempt the expense of the special preferential tax, which the employer makes when he supports the employee's gym, gym training or swimming pool or taking part in the Tartu marathon. During these years, various arguments have been put forward. At the last meeting, the officials of the Ministry of Finance expressed their opinion that passing the Tartu Marathon, for example, is not a health behaviour, but a health problem. However, it is generally feared that the employer will also pay the employee a salary in the monthly cards of the gym and that the tax will not be collected. That is why we are proposing a ceiling of EUR 500. This is not enough money for decent employers to start reducing the salary of their employees. Another thing is that there is currently no information about the number of employers who pay the special preferential tax because they support staff sports activities. A study carried out by the Prax Centre of Policy Studies shows that such expenditure is not very high. The Ministry of Finance has said that it will now make an additional cell for employers from 2015 to indicate the specific costs for workers' health. Thus, they can say how much can be lost only at the end of this year. However, their calculations show that if these EUR 500 were released from the tax burden, the employer would win EUR 314 per employee. There have also been arguments that if a person really cares about his or her health, he or she does not have to do the kind of sport that costs, but run along the health trails. But running along the health trails will certainly provide more motivation than you can take part in public sports events once a year. And a person who has not yet discovered health trails for himself can find the encouragement to make a health sport thanks to a great public sport event. It is certain that people who have lived working lives for 30 to 40 years will not be so easily attracted to a new way of life. It is very important that the first step, if it is not done, will certainly not follow the other steps. Our bill has reached this hall at quite a reasonable time. If it were to pass the second and third readings as quickly as it is planned with the cluster law that will be discussed tomorrow with its tax increases, it could already be legalised in June that, as from 1 January 2016, employers would not have to pay this special preferential tax. And if all political parties are in favour of such a reception other than the Reform Party, I am grateful if the third time the draft does not remain in the drawer and, according to the decision of the Chairman of the Monetary Commission, arrives in this Chamber for second reading. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U130	Thank you. You have questions too. Colleagues Jüri Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U131	Honourable waitress! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Any measure implemented for sport is, of course, worthwhile, including this draft law. I fully agree that a person who enjoys a healthy lifestyle, including continuous exercise, has a better working capacity than others. But I would rather ask that this same bill applies the exemption from the special preferential tax with regard to employees. Would it not be more reasonable to exempt expenditure on the development of publicly available and free sport and its infrastructure from the special preferential tax? Then the whole nation could use these facilities, not just the individual workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U132	If I understood the question correctly, you would replace the three transcripts in which we count the employer's costs of using sports facilities and participating in health sports events and organising sporting events, with the provision that the employer is exempt from this tax if he helps to contribute to the construction of sports facilities. This certainly complements this idea. At present, companies that help to organise sports events to some extent are clearly not self-paying events, are paying special fees and are not only available to their employees. But in addition to the events, if the facilities were to be considered, this exemption could have been extended.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U133	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U134	Good President! Good waitress! I want to say that this is a nice bill, but my question is how did you get to the 500 euro limit? Why exactly 500 euros?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U135	In 2009, when we started this idea, there was still a time of the crown, and at that time it was 6,000 kroons a year, which is very well in 12 months, which is a year. This EUR 500 comes from the natural development of things. After the first draft law on this subject had been voted on, a new procedure was adopted and the kroons were converted into euro, rounding the amount to the first large number. There is no concrete calculation that, for EUR 500, one employee should do sports, there is no back here. Rather, rounding back is to ease the work of the tax administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U136	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Good speaker! I would like to express my support for the speaker's position to also give three days to propose amendments to this bill, because otherwise it may take another 12 Tartu marathons before we reach the finish line.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U138	Thank you for that line! Indeed, here we can see how these draft laws, which would slightly ease the situation of employers, are marinated for a very long time. When, in comparison, tax laws that raise taxes and are dealt with very quickly, it attracts attention. At the same time, I think it would be good practice for the Riigikogu to follow its domestic and working procedures and to give ten working days for all draft amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U139	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U140	Thank you. I would also like to make it clear that it is proposed here that the participation fee for recreational and health sports events should not be considered as a special advantage for employees. Can this not encourage untrained, unprepared workers to go to public sports events, which may also pose a risk to their health?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U141	Organisers of all sports events put their hearts to the participants to appreciate their preparation. And in major public sports events, you don't mind someone taking a long walk at a distance longer than top athletes. I would point out that this three-letter list has been narrowed down with a very clear aim, because in previous years, the Ministry of Finance assured us that if you just record sports activities, employers could start supporting the purchase of running equipment or bicycles for their employees. That is why the list is very narrow: participation in sporting events, organisation of sporting events and use of sports facilities. You can't make that list any shorter.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U142	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U143	Dear waitress, Is it possible that the same result that you are now advocating could have been achieved in some other way?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U144	Future employers would contribute more to the health of their employees, even if they had to pay 53% of the tax. We've probably been waiting for this for the last six years. That is the principle of whip and carrot. The whip has fallen to employers in such a way that it is 4. The sick day is on them, but I know that many employers are still trying to motivate their employees not to come to work sick. However, these decisions made in 2009 have led us to a situation where the economic situation of many workers is forcing us to work sick. So the whip's been in the air for the last six years. The question now is whether we can do something sympathetic about employers so that they feel that the state recognises their contribution. The waiver of the special preferential tax does not lead to significant amounts of money being paid out of the state budget, as at present very many companies do not declare this cost. At the same time, it would probably provide very strong additional motivation for the organisers of sports events, and also for those who offer people opportunities to exercise.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U145	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U146	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't actually get an answer, you actually repeated the basic political idea of your draft. I would like to clarify my question. If there is more than one method to achieve an objective and these methods are, in principle, more or less equal, then it would probably be right to look at which method has fewer undesirable results. In this sense, you might specify whether there is another method with fewer problems than what you are presenting.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U147	In pointing out the main problem that is being blamed on this method, it is that the EUR 500 in question would be hidden in salary income so that the employer would pay part of the salary in the form of health club cards. Is there anything else that could give an employee a better incentive to engage in sport? If we consider that the number of years of healthy living in Estonia took a step backwards in the years of crisis, it can be assumed that if people's daily livelihoods are relieved, if their wages are so high that they can afford something else in addition to food and housing, then people will start to contribute more to their health. So, yes, perhaps the alternative could be a very rapid noticeable increase in the minimum wage, so that people who are currently virtually unable to afford anything could also afford to behave in health.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U148	Thank you. There are no more questions. I would like to ask Urve Tiidus, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U149	Honorable President of the Riigikogu sitting! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! The Finance Committee discussed the draft amendment to § 48 of the Income Tax Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group on 28 May. At the meeting of the Commission, Kadri Simson presented the draft very thoroughly as representative of the initiators. It is recalled once again that the main purpose of the draft is to give the employer the right not to benefit from the special advantage to cover the costs of sports activities per employee or employee for an amount of EUR 500 per calendar year. The cost of dealing with sport is the cost associated with the use of sports facilities, the cost of participating in recreational and health sports events and the cost of organising sporting events. Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, participated in the meeting of the Commission. As we know, the Government of the Republic discussed the draft on 30 April this year and the Government's opinion explained that the coalition agreement intends to deal with the same subject in the future, but Bill No 2 decided not to support the government. There was a longer debate in the Commission on this subject, with the following points. The representative of the initiator of the draft act explained first that the Estonian Employers' Confederation basically supports the draft. When answering questions, Kadri Simson also explained that promoting health sports could lead to savings in the cost of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. The Commission was also asked why the threshold was EUR 500 per year. The answer was that this simplifies the administration somewhat, but Kadri Simson already explained it a little bit more thoroughly here. The representative of the Government of the Republic stressed in the Commission that sports opportunities should be guaranteed in a uniform manner to all people and not be made dependent on the opportunities and will of the employer. Everyone has certainly experienced in their lives that small businesses often have fewer opportunities than many large businesses, but not all. Another important issue is that the availability and availability of sporting opportunities does not only concern employees, employees and employees, but also concerns all members of the community. After all, most people live in a community, within the borders of a local government. This also applies to children, to people who are mature. It was also expressed that priority could be given to supporting the opportunities and infrastructure of sport at the local government level available to everyone. More substantive questions were also discussed, such as how sport affects people at all. It was claimed that training in the gym is not suitable for everyone, which may be paid, but may not be. Some municipalities also offer free time. Very much has been invested in health sports trails and light traffic routes that are accessible to all and are actively used. It was also discussed whether one marathon would bring more health benefits or harm. There were no doctors among us, and this was the expression of the knowledge we had from reading or otherwise dealing with the subject. Even if running seems generally beneficial, at some age it can prove harmful. For example, it can affect the joints. It also asked how to define a sporting event, for example, whether the company's summer days are a sport or a training event. The Finance Committee decided to make the following proposals to the Riigikogu's plenary session: to conclude the first reading today and set the deadline for amendments at 10 working days, i.e. 16 June at 5.15 p.m. These decisions were taken unanimously by the Commission. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U150	Thank you to the Committee on Monetary Affairs for such a comprehensive approach to the subject. But, Honorable waitress, there are some questions for you. My colleague Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U151	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. My question, I am sorry, is addressed to you as the leader of a group and you do not have to answer it, but I am grateful if you consider it possible. The rapporteur pointed out that in previous years the adoption of drafts with similar content was mainly behind the opposition of the Reform Party. Has the Reform Party now changed its position? Do we have the hope of successfully completing this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U152	Mr Andres Ammas, thank you for this question. I have been in my group for a while, but I would not comment on these earlier decisions. However, I will make a reference to the coalition agreement concluded between the social democrats, the IRL and the Reform Party after the last elections in the Riigikogu. This action programme has such a point as 8.7. I will read it out: 'We will also allow companies to donate tax-free to the development of free-of-charge public sports infrastructure and do not consider the employer's contribution to promoting workers' health and avoiding sick days as a special advantage. 'As with this program, it's pretty soon, it's not all being imposed on the day, okay, everything has a deadline. The Government of the Republic has an agenda for this. But I see here such consistency between the Central Party bill and the programme of the Republic coalition and I believe that a solution will be found. Personally doing sports and promoting health as a very appreciative person, I think a good solution is very necessary here. But I also say that health promotion and sports activities start in childhood, start in family, kindergarten and school.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U153	Thank you. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U154	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you, waitress. As an ex-excellent handball player, I do not understand how you can doubt the usefulness of sport if it is done under the hands of an educated coach and if it is made as less costly as possible to the employer. After all, a professional trainer monitors the trained organism so that the joints of the wards do not get hurt and all the other things. At the same time, in the so-called black run, I apologize for the expression! In the health trails and elsewhere, where a person goes on his own and perhaps puts out his last one, he may do himself a thousand times more harm than in the gym, the use of which we propose. How can these two things even be compared? So I'm asking you why you feel free to train, but you want to slow down a sport under professional guidance.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U155	Thank you very much, Mr Sults, for this question, which also contained an interesting informative detail for me. I found out you've been a top athlete. That's great! It reminded me of Winston Churchill. I'm sure the people in this hall know his well-known saying about sports, but a lot of people don't know why he said that. Winston Churchill reportedly said frequently that no sports, and many think that he was anti-sports, but he was rather a top-polo player when he was young. But once he fell off his horse, and after that he said no sports. Now you're saying I'm kind of opposed to coaching. No, absolutely not. In Estonia, however, there is a system of sports and training for children and young people, with certain qualifications. However, the content of this draft does not concern sports activities carried out under the hands of coaches. So I will limit my reply to the fact that this draft refers to the use of sport facilities, recreational and health sport, which is not usually carried out under coaching. Yeah, they do, of course, when there are gyms and stuff like that. But once again I stress that I am opposed in every sense to raising the health-adverse effects of sport in Estonia. But we will find a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U156	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I understand that the groups have a desire to open negotiations. Please, Andres Ammas as representative of the Estonian Free Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U157	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The sport practice that began in childhood may be delayed later, as can be seen in the accompanying picture. But I'm glad that right now I have an employer who has a gym that I've already been able to use some times. If we now come to the draft we are discussing, the Free Party will be happy to join those parties that have already expressed their support for this draft. Based on the previous speech, it seems that the opponents should no longer be in this Chamber. I would very much like this bill not to stand in the Commission's drawer again. In examining the progress of previous drafts, I found that the current Minister of Finance, the chairman of the Monetary Commission at that time, said three years ago that the Commission had a vision. I hope it was a vision in the sense of vision, not in the sense of a phantom imagination. This vision was that once the first reading of the draft was completed, it could also be worked out. I'm sure you can work on the current bill. By this work, the chairman of the committee in question meant an examination of the potential costs that the State would incur over time, and it was also intended to try to carry out impact analyses based on either empirical or other data, using expert opinions and studies. The need for studies was also referred to by a representative of the Ministry of Finance in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, who said that ministries have dealt with this issue, but by autumn, if I remember correctly, another few studies will be completed on the initiative of the Ministry of Social Affairs. A number of local and international studies have already been referred to today by the rapporteur. This issue has now perhaps been examined enough to allow the adoption of the draft. I hope that we will be able to deal with this more quickly than has been the case with similar drafts in the past. Moreover, in the pre-election sport debate, this principle was supported by representatives of all six parties, including the reform party Lauri Luik. So there is hope that this bill could become a law. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this pattern of behaviour in this Chamber could end, that if the opposition's draft fails, in six months or a year's time, the coalition bill will appear with exactly the same content, and then the idea will suddenly be fine. In previous formations, there was a practice like this. You and I have a good opportunity to introduce a new pattern of behaviour: it is not important who will present the draft if the content is acceptable to us jointly. That is why, on behalf of the Free Party Group, I propose that we continue to deal with this draft at an appropriate pace and reach its adoption as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U158	Thank you. Eiki Nestor on behalf of the Socialist Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U159	Honourable Vice President! Honourable Riigikogu! In general, the tax debate is practical in Estonian society compared to many others. It's about people who know about it. In some other areas there aren't as good arguments as there are people who understand. But there is one exception in the tax base, however, and it is linked to the way we tax our companies. For example, there has been some understanding that legal persons in Estonia do not even pay income tax. If you now open the tax office's website, you will see that this year legal persons have already received so much income tax, and then look for an answer to the question of how this money could have been received if there is no such tax. But look, that's where he's been, and for years. Our tax system has its own characteristics. Our system is much different from that in other parts of Europe, and it has advantages and disadvantages. Plus, it's easy to do double-accounting in Estonian companies. But among the minuses is that it is possible to use the Estonian state as an investment place for a long time without paying taxes here and only when the income is taken out will the income tax be paid. From the outset, there has been a major debate on investment in workers in establishing this system. And not only is their health in mind, but there has also been a big debate about educating workers from the outset. The Riigikogu once introduced into the law a provision that made special preferential tax exempt from work education, and after ten years the water dripped on top of the stone. Drip and drop, and the stone broke: now the level training costs that the employer makes for the training of its employees are free of the special preferential tax. True, not as the idea of the social democrats of the authors of this idea has been, but there has been some compromise. In short, we do not see anything strange when a bank, for example, trains opera singers. If he wants to do this, let him do it, it's a general victory why it should be taxed. Today, opera singers must be trained by the Estonian Theatre. The same is true of the special benefit for workers' health. Kadri Simson, young man, of course you can't remember everything. For example, this bill came to the Riigikogu Hall for the first time already in 2003 in a slightly different form, but with the same content. Our group has presented it sometimes by ten. There is now a tie in the coalition agreement quoted by the co-rapporteur of the Honourable Committee on Monetary Affairs and this agreement is much wider than this draft. Consideration is given to the possibility of tax-free contributions to infrastructure, which is also a big deal and a new thing, but on the other hand, it is agreed that the employer's costs of promoting workers' health and reducing sick days are not considered as a special advantage. This wording is much wider than what is stated in the draft. I'm sure we need to move on to this bill. The real issue is not even research, Mr Ammas, but rather to find a good wording. Nobody should finally be afraid that someone's gonna make some kind of pussy with taxes. That fear has always been. There is really nothing to study here, because there is such a simple rule of thumb that every euro that is placed in the promotion of health brings back three euros. The Social Democrats are very happy when someone takes over our ideas. I call on all of you to do this! I believe that in this Riigikogu we can reach an agreement on this issue, which can be voted in favour of 102 out of 101 members of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U160	Thank you. The political groups have no further requests to speak. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft No 2 be completed. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. a 16 June at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U161	We will proceed with the agenda: the first reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Convention establishing the European Space Agency initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic and the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the European Space Agency concerning the accession of Estonia to the Convention establishing the European Space Agency 39. Minister for Enterprise Urve Palo, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U162	Good afternoon. Dear Vice-Chairman, Dear Members of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen, You have received a draft Act on the Accession of the European Space Agency to the Convention prepared at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the European Space Agency on the Accession of Estonia to the Convention establishing the European Space Agency. Such a long sentence! On the basis of the draft, the Republic of Estonia will accede to the Convention establishing the European Space Agency, or ESA, in short, and ratify the Accession Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and ESA, signed in s. a 4 February, at the ESA headquarters in Paris, the Minister of Foreign Trade and Entrepreneurship of Estonia and the Director-General of the ESA. The European Space Agency is an international organisation with 20 full members and a partner country in Canada. A cooperation agreement has been concluded between ESA and the European Union. The biggest contributors to the ESA budget are Germany, France and Italy. The ESA Convention is a multilateral external agreement setting out the conditions for the operation of the ESA, the rights and obligations of full members. Following accession to the Convention, Estonia becomes the 21st Member State of the ESA. The status of full member of Estonia in the ESA officially starts on the day the instruments of ratification of the Treaty of Accession are received by the French Government. Estonia's cooperation with ESA started already in 2007, so almost seven or eight years ago. However, Estonian entrepreneurs and R &amp; D institutions started to carry out specific projects for ESA in 2010. After Estonia had signed the five-year European cooperation countries' programme agreement, 27 projects were funded under the resettlement programme. During the current projects, Estonian entrepreneurs and research institutions were able to prove that they were able to carry out these projects on a promised scale and at an agreed time. ESA was very surprised at the smooth way in which all communication and business was conducted with Estonian entrepreneurs. The success of Estonian entrepreneurs is also shown by the fact that a number of ESA projects have now developed into a follow-up project. Secondly, the completion of the first Estonian satellite ESTCube-1, partly supported by the Agency, can be considered one of the biggest success stories of the admission programme. Estonians managed to build a very good camera on the satellite, which took such good pictures that a few specific orders have come to build such a camera. The success of projects by entrepreneurs and R &amp; D institutions and the great potential and interest of entrepreneurs and the research community in participating in high-tech space development shows that Estonia is ready to become a full member of ESA. That is why the Treaty of Accession to the ESA was signed in Paris on 4 February this year. The Accession Agreement establishes the conditions for Estonia to accede to the ESA Convention. According to the terms of the Accession Agreement, each new Member State will be required to pay a one-off entry fee of EUR 600000 for Estonia. The calculation of the contribution shall be based on the current value of the Agency's assets in the year of the merger, its calculation scheme being fixed in the ESA rules. The entry fee will be paid in one part in 2015 and will also be reflected in our state budget on the budget line of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. ESA shall carry out its activities by obtaining all necessary information from economic operators and research institutions in the Member States. Procurement shall be open to all ESA Member States and the best tender shall be selected from among them. At the same time, the industrial policy set out in the ESA Convention is based on the "geographical refund" principle, which means that each Member State will receive orders up to a maximum of the amount contributed to the ESA budget. In order to find projects that are of interest to both ESA and Estonia, and for which there is already a certain competence, an Estonian ESA Task Force has been launched, including representatives from relevant ministries such as the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of the Interior, and the EAS Space Bureau. The aim of the search for projects is to announce the procurement of projects in Estonia and ESA in the autumn. Contracts are likely to be concluded in March next year. There is therefore no "black hole" payment of money, as often happens with many other international organisations. Projects will be launched immediately, and this money will essentially go to the development of businesses and research institutions. According to ESA's industrial policy, the Agency must ensure that 80% of the contribution paid by the Member State returns to the economy of that Member State for a period of five years. If Estonia contributes 600000 euros to selected programmes, for example, then ESA must ensure that after five years Estonian entrepreneurs and research institutions have received orders of at least 480000 euros. Given that the work done to ESA is scaled up in the wider economy and also enhances the capacity of businesses to bring more money home in European Union innovation programmes, such as Horizon 2020, the leverage for the economy could be multiple. The use of technologies and applications developed through ESA projects in the terrestrial economy contributes directly to national exports. The direct and indirect effects of membership on Member States have been assessed in the ESA Member States, and this has shown that on average one euro has returned three or four euros to the economies of the ESA by the countries. The membership of the European Space Agency also increases the ability of our entrepreneurs and the scientific community to bring the money invested in Copernicus and Galileo back into the Estonian economy in the European Union programmes. So, in conclusion, honourable Riigikogu, please support this bill! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U163	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Colleagues Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! According to this agreement, some activities will become mandatory for us. What kind of activities are these? If, today or any other day, by means of this procedure, we confirm this agreement in Parliament, I personally would like to know what are the activities that are mandatory for us and what are you going to recommend as selective activities. Since there's still time, I'm gonna ask you this. For the first time, I see a contract that says from a servant that cash, among other things, is being operated. What the fuck is this? What kind of cash in any currency in the 21st century is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U165	Specific activities will be identified through the procurement of businesses and research organisations. It is difficult for us today to predict which procurements will be won. But what makes the European Space Agency a success? It is the case that Member States do not pay their membership fees simply in a black hole, so they do not know exactly what they will get back for it, apart from the honour and fame that they belong to this club. In the case of ESA, it is indeed guaranteed that at least 80% of the money that the State has contributed to these programmes, or also the annual membership fee, will be returned to a specific country to support R &amp; D. The Committee on Economic Affairs asked what would happen if our businesses did not participate so much and this money did not return to 80%. In such a case, even such a procedure is provided that, if, for example, after three years, it becomes apparent that Estonia's "return rate" is lower than 80%, then ESA is already making targeted purchases to Estonian entrepreneurs and research institutions to ensure that the total return rate is at least 80% over five years. So in the case of ESA, it can be said that it is essentially a research and development programme for our businesses and research institutions. Yes, it is said that there is little qualified labour in Estonia and that the population is small at all. At the same time, we would like to pay our people a decent salary and increase our exports. But what helps us move up this value chain is precisely research and development and, as a result, products and services with higher added value. This is an opportunity to help Estonian entrepreneurs move up the value chain in a very specific way, in cooperation with research institutions. But I don't really know what to say about cash. I don't know where you counted that cash.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U166	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U167	Thank you. Madam Minister! You spoke about the contribution, which means 600000 euros for Estonia. I understand that, but with the deposit, there are still special payments relating to the current value of the Agency's assets. Could you expand some of my knowledge of what these special payments are? What do these special payments mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U168	I understand so much that we have a one-off contribution of EUR 600000 and, later on, an annual contribution of EUR 870000. It may be supplemented by up to EUR 600000 of funds enabling participation in the selected programmes. And when we compare our benefits with membership fees and participation in selective programmes, 80% of this money comes back to the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U169	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! In order not to say again where you took it, I refer immediately to Article XIV (1) (a) on this question, which states that the representatives of the Member States are, here, an explanation of the inviolable nature of arrest and detention and of the seizure of personal luggage. Point (g): they are subject to the same customs rules as the diplomatic representative for personal luggage. And there's still a hell of a thing between these two points. Is this a space agency dealing with space technology, or is this some kind of diplomatic institution? I mean, I have this idea that this is some James Bond team that is absolutely untouchable. Hey, court immunity, even after your assignment! What are they doing?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U171	Now you're asking me something else. Before you talked about moving cash, now you're talking about Agent 007, no more talking about cash. A little confusing is the content of your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U172	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U173	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! What is your knowledge of the ability of Estonian companies and Estonian research and development institutions to participate in these optional programmes and return this money? Indeed, the examples of Ireland and Norway show that one euro paid allows a return of between four and seven euros. What is the capacity of Estonian institutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U174	The transition period, which has so far been five years, suggests that this capacity is quite good. As far as I am aware of the materials, I have realised that these have been successful projects and cooperation with ESA has been very good. It's even been surprisingly good. Normally, in the case of a new Member State, there has been less zeal and less knowledge, I have understood. So far, all the successful projects have taken place. I can give you some examples: Vertex Estonia, Estrotech, Regio, Myoton, Tensiotrace, Skeleton Technologies, IB Krates, CGI Eesti AS, NanoTAK, Invent Baltics, Tartu Observatory, University of Tartu, Tallinn University of Technology. I have reason to believe we're doing well. Let's see.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U175	Thank you for a very thorough review. But there are also questions for you. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U176	Very esteemed Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this, in my opinion, with the longest title of the draft, I will not repeat this title here at my meeting on 28 May. At the meeting of the Commission, Sille Kraam, expert at the Economic Development Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the head of innovation at the Enterprise and Export Centre of EAS, and Madis Välis, head of the EAS Space Bureau. It is important to say that, in fact, this issue is not new in substance. As the Minister pointed out, cooperation with the European Space Agency has been ongoing since 2007 and in the form of specific agreements since 2010. As far as the amount of money is concerned, Krista Aru, a respected member of the Riigikogu, asked how much money has come back, we have received contracts amounting to 5.1 million euros during the 2010/2015 period, and there are a number of Estonian companies and research and research institutions who have been able to carry out research and development activities, as well as entrepreneurship. Indeed, when it comes to joining this institution, when it comes to money, there are three payments. The first is a special payment, which was already mentioned and can be taken as an entrance fee. Indeed, if we are to accede to the Convention establishing a Space Agency, a one-off entry fee, also called a special payment, will have to be paid, and this amount will be EUR 600000. The second amount to be paid each year is EUR 870000. And of this EUR 870000, EUR 500000 is the money used by the Agency during the transitional period, i.e. the period from 2016 to 2020 for the procurement of Estonian entrepreneurs and research and development institutions. Thus, from this annual contribution EUR 870000 for 500000, it is guaranteed that orders will be made to Estonian companies and research and development institutions to this extent. ESA is indeed a unique organisation in this respect where the requirement for public procurement does not apply, although the general rule is indeed public procurement and public tenders. Based on the principle of geographical refund, orders to Estonian companies and R &amp; D institutions have been secured for 500000 euros on the annual contribution in 2016 to 2022. In terms of information, there is still so much more that from this annual contribution EUR 260000 goes to cover ESA's general costs, EUR 50000 to fly ESA launchers and to maintain the necessary infrastructure, and the remaining EUR 60000 can be offered by Estonian companies and R &amp; D institutions in the ESA's compulsory research programmes. So this is the second part of this financial contribution. The third option for us is participation in and use of ESA selection programmes. The Minister also referred to our challenge to participate in the annual selection programmes of EUR 600000. At the end of the five-year period, Estonia has the opportunity to recover or Estonia must recover at least 80% of its contribution. Maybe if we contribute five times 600000 euros in five years, it will make a total of 3 million euros and 2.4 million of it will be guaranteed to return to Estonian business and research and development institutions. At the meeting of the Economic Commission, there was a greater interest in how this investment is still taking place and how Estonian companies can participate in these programmes. I, too, share the view that we do not need to question the ability of our companies, as well as research and development institutions, to comply with the orders made by the Space Agency. The last five years have shown it. There were questions about this at the committee meeting, but as I have already said, as rare as it is in the European Union, targeted procurement is also allowed for the European Space Agency, and this will ensure that part of the money comes back to Estonia in any case. The meeting of the Commission also asked for more details about the concrete benefits of the Estonian programme. Indeed, everyone has their own niche, and I think that Estonia's kind of uniqueness, but the big plus is that we are in any case a very advanced country in terms of all kinds of IT solutions. I will, for example, bring an application, to which the Minister referred and which will determine whether the grass has been mowed or not. It will continue to be dealt with, and probably after three, four, or five years, there will be no need to spend fuel or time anywhere to check if any grassland has been mowed or not. This application can be made thanks to the Copernicus programme, which is one of the specific outputs for satellite images. The meeting also asked for clarification of the role of research institutions in programmes. It's all clear. We do not have a matter of getting orders from the European Space Agency if we are not a member of it, except for the so-called "pre-period" that applies to us when the agreement was also concluded. If we now decide that as of 1 January 2016 Estonia will no longer participate in ESA programmes, we will not have orders to do so. There was also a question of the burden on the state budget. It is important to note here that to date this burden has been roughly EUR 1.2 million every year. If we disregard the contribution, i.e. the special payment, which has to be paid once in connection with the merger, then if we are also participating in selective programmes amounting to 600000 euros per year, this would mean a burden on the Estonian state budget of 1.37 million euros versus 1.2 million euros, which is the actual burden. In this sense, the accession of the Space Agency to the Convention will increase the burden on the state budget by EUR 170000 compared to what is our current contribution. The very important output is also that all of this is not limited to orders from the Space Agency. In fact, the aim is that orders should also be made for ground work. An excellent example is our company Skeleton, who, within the framework of a cooperation agreement with the European Space Agency, has developed supercapacitors that are currently used to manufacture cars of different brands. This company is currently setting up two plants in Germany to produce the same supercapacitors for the automotive industry. Another example is the ESTCube project already mentioned, which may not have succeeded in everything, but thanks to this cooperation, thanks to the ESTCube project, five innovative companies have emerged. I would add that Tallinn University of Technology is a little disappointed that they were not in this role. Now they've started a new project, maybe it's ESTCube-2 or something else. Finally, indeed, what will Estonia win? Firstly, when we talk about research and development and we consider it important to contribute money to it, I ask that if cooperation with the European Space Agency is not research and development, what is it? This is the first important factor. Secondly, we really do get much of the money invested back to Estonia in the form of specific orders. And if Eiki Nestor indicated that each euro contributed to the promotion of health will bring back three euros, then it is known that one of the most successful countries in the ESA programme is Norway, which has recovered four or five euros for each euro contributed. This is crucial. Thirdly, it is very important that, thanks to joining the European Space Agency, we have access to the intellectual property of the European Space Agency. It is a very important material and information that both research and development institutions and our companies need. Fourthly, it is vital for our entrepreneurs, too, to work together with the Space Agency and to succeed there. In my opinion, this represents a certain quality mark and enhances the reputation of our companies, also increasing the reputation of the Estonian state. It is crucial to make some kind of sub-supply to, for example, Airbus or any major company. It is not simply a table for those coming from the forest, so the experience and reputation gained in cooperation with the European Space Agency is a very important prerequisite for good projects. I would also like to stress that the Commission attaches the utmost importance to participating in the selection programmes to which I referred and whose financial volume in the budgetary context would be EUR 600000. According to my information and as the Minister has also said, the financial cover in this year's budget is a special payment, i.e. an entrance fee. The RES also envisages the payment of an annual fee of EUR 870000 for the following year. But I have heard such stories that there is currently no cover for this 600000 euro, i.e. the money for participation in selective programmes. The Committee on Economic Affairs makes a clear request here to the minister, who is currently talking to a member of the Riigikogu, that the money for participation in selective programmes should definitely be included in the budget. It would be a little odd that if we weren't a full member, we'd bet EUR 1.2 million, and now that we're going to be a full member, we're going to bet EUR 870000. So the Committee on Economic Affairs unanimously supported the view that this EUR 600000 should in any case be found and, in fact, that our businesses and institutions should be supported in research development. The Commission's procedural decisions were as follows: to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 a.m. on 5 June 2015. It is a great pleasure to say that all these decisions were adopted by consensus in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U177	Thank you. Dear colleague, did the Commission discuss the size of the Estonian team working with the European Space Agency? Maybe it should be increased, so we'll be so far away in four or five years, we'll get a lot of money back like Norway.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U178	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U179	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I was a little late with the card withdrawal that I wanted to do, because some of my question was answered just now by answering my colleague Krista Aru. But I'll ask the fragmentary question. I know that with the European Space Agency, our scientists have already worked quite successfully before we become members. Agent 007 was mentioned. I also know that Agent 007 of the European Space Agency should be our Urmas Peterson. What I wanted to say is that even in the study of history, the results of the work of the Space Agency, especially remote sensing, landscape exploration and the corresponding programs, have been useful, because we can see how the human hand is created and what it is not. This work has even benefited in archaeology. Can you name a few more areas of science? Although, I'm sorry, I'm saying, I've had some of the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U180	Thank you. As far as the implementation of remote sensing is concerned, one possibility is the application concerning the area payments of the PRIA in Estonia during the development phase. According to the requirements of the European Union, on fields for which the PRIA premium is paid to owners, grass must have been mowed by 31 July of each year. In the past, the PRIA staff member had to go to check whether the hay had been mowed or not. It is now possible to take images from satellites and to estimate the size of biomass. Then you can see whether the grass has been mowed or not and, if necessary, you can send a reminder to the farmer. Such an application is, by the way, unique in Europe. It is also directly applicable in other countries and thus a possible export article and a very good example of cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U181	Thank you. Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U182	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Some fragments of our debate prompted me to ask about membership. Estonia is the 21st member. What could be the potential membership of ESA and, for example, could the Russian Federation be a member of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U183	Could the Russian Federation be a member? To be honest, I cannot answer that question, I have not asked myself about it either. There has been no discussion on this subject. However, the potential per se is high in 21 countries with relatively small numbers compared to the number of countries around the world. I think there's potential anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U184	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Now I would like to ask for a presentation of the Chair's Chair of the Economic Commission, Toomas Kivimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U185	Thank you. There are materials here that state that there are 12, 13, 14 people in the Estonian delegation to ESA. It will then be a delegation from EAS to ESA and will include very well-known scientists and entrepreneurs. The head of the delegation is Madis Stranger. I think this representation is respectable in every way and corresponds to our possibilities, our potential. However, of course, the key place is still those specific companies that are ready to comply with the European Space Agency's orders and implement projects. But I repeat, Estonia has proven its ability to develop all kinds of applications. We cannot be the best at everything, but the implementation of IT and other technical solutions and the use of existing experience and competence in this area are certainly one of our strengths. Indeed, I have no doubt that Estonian companies will be able to meet these orders. The same Skeleton is, in fact, an excellent example, as well as what has been done under the Galileo programme. I, too, have been somewhat educating myself on this issue because joining the Space Agency was not the main theme of my election campaign. Europe is also developing its own navigation system under the Galileo programme. The GPS we're using right now is American. The European Union will develop its own navigation programme through the Space Agency and the Galileo programme. The idea has been put forward that Estonia could be a test country for the navigation programme developed under Galileo. Our smallness certainly allows this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U186	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U187	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! There is no point in not supporting such a science-promoting programme. I'm sure you're gonna have to support it with both hands, but a little euphoria could be cut off. Estonia has always been a space state, since the last century. Didn't the Economic Committee discuss Estonia's competence to start, for example, the regeneration of rocket engines and reflectors? After all, it has been done in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U188	I thank you for your support for this bill. As far as your question is concerned, I honestly admit that I have no competence to answer it, and this was not discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs. This is certainly already an EAS theme and a topic for specific companies that can propose cooperation projects. For the time being, however, I dare reply that this was not discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs. But I'm sure people from EAS, including the Madis Stranger, will also be watching this session, so they will probably put the question behind their ears and explore these possibilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U189	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U190	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Waitress! ESTCube is, of course, excellent among student projects and students get a great output thanks to it. This is the most motivating project just as they can and can see. What if something happens, like the students do, that some things go wrong? We've all been students once, twice, three times, and we know this can happen. The way the chemists do it, they pour the doctoral thesis down the sink because the tests have failed. If something happens like ESTCube-1, whose mission was to test the sun sail, but half the sails didn't come off, what then?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U191	Thank you. Of course, that depends on a specific agreement. The contracting authority shall be the European Space Agency or any other institution. So it depends on a specific agreement, where there is certainly regulation of liability. It is clear from the day that failures in such R &amp; D projects are not excluded, but so far we have had no negative consequences in the framework of this cooperation. At least this has not proved to be a burden on the state budget. If there has been a responsibility for the failure to realise the objectives of the project, then this responsibility has already been the responsibility of the specific undertaking that has undertaken to fulfil the obligation to perform the contract. In this sense, there will be no additional burden or liability for the Estonian state and state budget. It is still a matter of responsibility for a particular company or university or research and development institution, depending on which contract has been concluded.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U192	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U193	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr President, for this very meaningful overview of the work of the Committee on Economic Affairs. My question is whether the Committee on Economic Affairs, having taken such a long and thorough look at this issue, was also familiar with space research under the large European Union programme Horizon 2020. Do you have any idea how ESA and Horizon 2020, including Copernicus and Galileo, will help our economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U194	Thank you for your good words. I guess it's like my diploma the first time here today to defend a bill. There was, in fact, no debate on this issue in the Committee on Economic Affairs. But, of course, these projects are all connected, but there are still so-called European Union space projects. Indeed, the European Space Agency seems to be an organisation with somewhat more autonomy, but there will certainly be close cooperation with the promoters of the European Union's relevant programmes. There will certainly be cooperation and complementarity, and this will lead to a better outcome. However, there was no discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U195	No further questions for you. Thank you very much. Let's go to the negotiations. I understand that Mikhail Stalnukhin is performing on behalf of the Centre Party Group. Please, five plus three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U196	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The president of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Kalle Laanet, who left this Chamber earlier, at 11:32 p.m., set out a new form of work today. Now it is necessary to report with a minute's accuracy who is present at a certain point in the presence of members of the Riigikogu. It made it clear to me that I must first point out that the question we are discussing now is so important that the Minister responsible for this did not find the strength to listen to the end of the debate and left the Chamber at 12.15. That would be the preamble. The Estonian Centre Party Group supports progress. Per aspera ad astra! We will surely be happy if we ever, in the future, on distant planets, leave our tracks on dusty paths, as Voinovich has written. It's clearer than that. But that doesn't mean the Minister can't read the documents he comes to this hall. In fact, the rule is that the minister must read through the papers that are being jerked off to him, of course the exception. If we were faced, for example, by the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Social Affairs, or who they are now listening to, there are so many ministers and their names change all the time, even the members of the Riigikogu are in trouble, not just the people of Estonia, then I would easily forgive with my heart that he did not read. But today I asked a specific question. I asked what agency this is, who doesn't rule out handling cash. The minister said that he didn't know where I found it, that there was nothing there about cash. Article XI of Annex I states that the Agency may accept and hold funds, currencies, cash and securities. I can't imagine what it's like for someone to bring cash in there. Is it in the diplomat suitcase, in the bags, in Xerox's paper boxes? How does this happen? What gives reason to collect cash? Does that mean someone's standing somewhere on the church stairs with a hat down? How could it even be a space agency, a technically high-level organization? Madam Secretary didn't understand what I was asking. Next, Article V of the Convention, "Activities and Programmes." The Agency's activities shall include mandatory activities involving all Member States and sample activities involving all Member States, with the exception of them and them. I asked what these mandatory activities were. The Minister, however, immediately began to talk about selective activities, that we choose something, pay 600000 euros, and 480000 will come back. This is a matter of national importance for Estonia, which are mandatory activities. Ask first what everyone is going to do on a mandatory basis. Am I the only one in this hall who read this document? Has anyone read what they say about goods and mediation? I've never seen customs rules apply to goods. I've never seen such a thing! What are they doing there? Who are these staff members of the Agency when they are exempted from military service obligations? Who are they? Who are they if they have immunity from arrest and detention? I asked you a question about what it was for. Are they scientific people or entrepreneurs? Who are they? Why, when they travel, do they benefit from the same customs preferences for personal luggage as a diplomatic representative? What are they gonna carry in their luggage? Is that the same cash? I took three minutes to tell this formation how you're going to work out the new rules that you've developed yourself. The IX and X Riigikogu had all the documents on the table. If there were any questions, if anyone found any trouble in any document, then you opened them and saw and made sure that was the case. You have empty tables right now. This is so that you do not have any interest in the documents we are discussing here. You can't control what I'm saying right now because, I understand, this bill has run out over there. Cooning isn't gonna be any saving. Papers must always be on the table of a member of the Riigikogu, only then can we work normally. Right now, we're just being made into clowns who are able to listen and have to nod. You can't control whether it is or not, as I say. It's been said a lot that times change, and we have to go along with it. We are told that everyone now has the treats, the person comes to the hall with a touch and finds the documents there. How many loose candy are on the tables now? And if anyone does, what does they look at? Do you want Delfi? How many people are undocumented now? Raise your hand! And what about the space agency? We are talking about a minister who does not read the documents he is coming here with, an official who cannot answer the questions, except those that have been discussed in the Commission and which he likes to answer. We're talking about not being able to work in this hall. In my previous composition, I started talking about this after about a year's work, but today the government came up here for 100 days. Maybe within 100 days, we will be able to solve this problem after all, even if it is linked to documents. But the Centre Party is supporting the joining of the Space Agency. We are all in favour of progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U197	Thank you for this progressive speech. There is no further wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed that the first reading of the draft 39 be completed. First reading of Bill 39 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. a 5 June at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U198	Let's move on to the agenda. The fifth item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia" submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The rapporteur is Mr Vladimir Velman, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please! For so much information, every member of the Riigikogu has the right to one oral question and negotiations are taking place between the representatives of the political groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U199	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft 26 of the decision "Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia', initiated by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, was adopted in the course of proceedings. a on 12 May. The deadline for amendments was set at 4 p.m. on 15 May. No amendments were tabled. At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 25 May, the following was decided by consensus: firstly, to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft 26 be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 2 June; secondly, to hold a final vote and adopt the draft as a decision; and finally, that the draft draft of the Committee on Foreign Affairs at first reading is the speaker. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U200	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed a final vote of 26 on the draft. Let's go to the final vote. I vote on the draft decision of the Riigikogu on 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia' 26. Please take a stand and vote. 77 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the decision, no respondents and no abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U201	We will proceed to the sixth item on the agenda: First reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe" submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The rapporteur is Hannes Hanso, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The members of the Riigikogu, once again, have the right to ask an oral question and negotiations are taking place between the political groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U202	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, I will present to you the draft decision establishing the Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We started this draft on 11 May and the Riigikogu Board set the deadline for amendments on 15 May afternoon at 16:00. No amendments were tabled. At the meeting held on 25 May, the Committee on Foreign Affairs made the following procedural decisions on the draft: to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the agenda of 27 plenary sessions by today, 2 June, to hold a final vote and to adopt the draft as a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U203	Thank you. You have questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U204	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I read in the explanatory memorandum that the proportional representation of men and women in the Riigikogu is also taken into account in the preparation of the delegation. Although my memories are such that this organisation closely monitors how the Member States have followed the principle of gender balance, and that Estonia does not get in trouble in this regard, at least two female members have been present in the delegation in recent times. In this case, there's one. My first question is, is that enough? And I have another question that I'm going to add to this as a jerk. Today it is June 2nd, and so slowly no Riigikogu has ever formed foreign delegations. Why has this happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U205	Thanks for the questions. The issue of gender balance is justified. I, too, would have liked to have seen more women in the delegation, but this compromise was reached this time when negotiating with the parties. As far as the other parties to the question are concerned, I cannot comment on previous decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U206	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed a final vote on the draft. Let's go to the final vote. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe' 27. Please take a stand and vote. 75 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, one abstention, no one opposed. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U207	The seventh item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Constitution of the Estonian Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe" submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The rapporteur is Mr Valdo Randpere, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U208	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Like the previous draft, it was launched by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 11 May and submitted to the Bureau. The deadline for amendments was 15 May. No amendments were tabled. At the meeting of 25 May, the Committee on Foreign Affairs made the following procedural decisions on the draft: to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the agenda of the 28 plenary sessions of the Riigikogu on Tuesday, 2 June and to put the draft to the final vote and to adopt it as a decision. I was appointed rapporteur. I would like to answer the narcissistic question about gender balance or equality that one third of the key members of this committee are female, and there are half of the women in the next draft committee, if you count the main and alternate members together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U209	Thank you. You have questions too. Colleagues Jüri Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U210	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Was there competition for these places or was there not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U211	There was competition, and we made our choice among the best candidates. That was our choice. I can read the names: the head of the delegation is Mart Nutt, the members are Külmiki Kübarsepp and Mati Raidma, and the alternates are Uno Kaskpeit, Jaanus Marrand and Toomas Vitsut.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U212	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Do the groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. The commission has proposed that the draft be put to the final vote. Let's go to the final vote. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe' 28. Please take a stand and vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there are no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U213	The eighth item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation' presented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The rapporteur is Mr Valdo Randpere, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U214	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is similar to some of the previous ones. The exact same procedure has taken place, except that the Committee on Foreign Affairs initiated this draft decision on 12 May. No proposals were submitted by the deadline of 15 May, and at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 25 May, it was decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board that 29 drafts be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday 2 June. The Committee on Foreign Affairs proposes a final vote and a decision on the draft. I was appointed waitress of the bill. Once again, when answering the questions, there was enormous competition for the members of this delegation, but the delegation, according to the proposal, looks like Ants Laaneots and Marko Mihkelson and Kadri Simson, as well as Marianne Mikko, as its alternates.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U215	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish to open negotiations. The commission has proposed a final vote on the draft. Let's go to the final vote. I vote on the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Estonian delegation' 29. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and no one was against or impartial. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U216	The ninth item on the agenda is the first reading of the 30th draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of the Estonian Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean' submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The rapporteur is Henn Põlluaas, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U217	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs presented the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean', which was accepted into the procedure on 12 May. No proposals were received by the deadline of 15 May. At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 25 May, it was decided to propose to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu that the draft be placed on the agenda of the 30 plenary sessions of the Riigikogu on Tuesday, 2 June. Our proposal is to put the draft to a final vote and to adopt it as a decision. I was appointed rapporteur. All decisions were taken by consensus in the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-02_U218	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. As the lead committee has proposed that the draft be put to the final vote, we will go to the final vote. I vote on the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean' 30. Please take a stand and vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to remind you that after the sitting in this Chamber there will be the election of the bureau of the Interparliamentary Union, the IPU Estonian Group. Everyone, please participate! Since today's agenda items have been discussed, the session is closed. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 12.50 p.m.
