ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 58 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. The following members of the government participate in the Question Hour of the Riigikogu: Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski, Prime Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse and Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur. Due to the fact that 12 members of the Riigikogu have published their wish to ask, I will give you the opportunity to submit one additional question, both to the person who registered yesterday and to the person who wishes to ask in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U2	The first question is put to the Minister for Health and Labour in the role of Prime Minister Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ossinovski! At the beginning of the year, in January, when you were still working as Minister for Education and Research, you assured private schools that, despite the changes, the operating grant for private schools would continue, but under what conditions and in what form, you said it was still discussed. The same was confirmed by the chairman of the cultural committee at the time. The Ministry of Education and Research had a plan and conditions in development. Can you specify whether such a plan, that private school operating grants will be paid by municipalities only on a voluntary basis, was your plan, as well as the condition developed during your time? Do you consider it to be the rule of law that private schools lose operating grants at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U4	Thank you. First, since the Supreme Court's decision came at the end of last year, during my term of office the government and my main task was to ensure a smooth transition precisely in the context where the Supreme Court had declared one provision unconstitutional. It was not considered that the local government could not be obliged to pay off the operating costs of private schools, but that the local government should be compensated for the costs. At that time, it was agreed at the level of the government that the State would indeed continue to pay operating grants in 2015. These funds were found in the reserve of the Government of the Republic and in the internal reserves of the Ministry of Education, but it was already clear that the system needed a fundamental change. We have seen that the regime that came into force since 2011 has led to a disproportionate increase in the number of private schools. This exponential growth is a clear risk of non-compliance with the principle of convergence school. Even then, it was clear in the government and the Ministry of Education that the system needed to be changed. At that time, different solutions were proposed, how to organise it, and the transition periods were also different. I might have done it a little differently than the Minister of Education has now offered, but such a proposal has come from him. On the basis of this proposal, the government is expected to take a decision this Friday.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U5	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. You also mentioned right now that you see private schools as a threat to convergence school. Is seeing private schools as a threat still a proper approach to private initiative and the emergence of civil society, in line with the rule of law? Private schools could still play a positive and diverse role in our educational landscape.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U7	Absolutely. My words should not be interpreted in any way that I oppose private schools or consider them to be a risk or a threat. I completely agree that private schools have enriched the Estonian education system in many places; they have at times fulfilled the role that the national or municipal education system has not yet been able to fulfil. For example, private schools have been better than the state in teaching children with special needs in many places. Similarly, Waldorf schools based on alternative pedagogy have a clear role to play in the Estonian educational landscape, they are of value, the state has recognised this methodology. In this context, it is, of course, very welcome that there are private schools in Estonia, especially those in private schools, where there is a different type of education than in ordinary schools and where there is either a different methodology, such as in Waldorf schools, or where there is a complex target group, such as private schools for children with special educational needs. The risk point is that, if, under the current financing scheme, private schools are able to obtain more favourable financing conditions than municipal and public schools, such as operating support at a full limit which is significantly higher than, for example, the average municipal schools in large cities, there is inevitably pressure that it is more reasonable to keep a private school than a municipal school. We have seen this pressure materialise when, for example, a private school is set up next to a local government school, on the initiative of parents, in order to gain a better financial position. The system should be such as to enable private schools to function, as private schools certainly enrich the educational landscape, but on the other hand the system must be fair in the sense that the ability of local government schools to provide quality education is equivalent to that of private schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U8	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U9	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Yesterday's Commission public hearing suggested that, in the case of increased public funding, private schools could refrain from charging tuition fees. If there is really agreement that, for example, Christian schools, Waldorf schools or, as you said, schools that are different from ordinary schools in the event of higher funding will refrain from taking tuition fees, would the Social Democratic Party change its position on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U10	Firstly, while being here in the role of Prime Minister, I believe that, in general, this concept is clearly present in the government, and in the government office it has also been confirmed that the current system should be changed. The Ministry of Education has proposed a solution that will essentially take us back to the regulation that was before 2011. The fact that the new regime entered into force in 2011 was not in fact a general political consensus at the time. This decision was made in a hurry, in my opinion, and a change in this system is clearly needed. Of course, at Parliament's level, it is also reasonable to discuss alternative solutions. There is no question, more broadly the education and operating support system can be improved, certainly can be done. There is also a question of settling between local authorities in terms of operating grants. These questions could be put on the Committee on Culture's desk. But I want to stress that it is easy to develop such political rhetoric that private schools are being deprived of operating support and that half of the money is being taken away from them. Let's look at the system that existed before 2011. However, many private schools, which then operated, received funding from local authorities. This is particularly true of these private schools, which are specific, such as the Waldorf schools. I do not believe that any local authority would, for example, fail to pay operating grants to the Waldorf schools. I really appreciate this as a very incredible step. I understand the fear that maybe some local authorities will not pay support, but I believe that it is still possible to reach agreements in the local community and that this system can work on a sustainable basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U12	The next question is for Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. Jaak Madison is asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U13	Honourable Minister of the Interior! This is about the future of the European Union. There is now an immigration crisis that has been going on for the last few months and does not seem to be slowing down, as human masses continue to come across the Mediterranean. As a result, very many countries have begun to question the integrity of the European Union and the sense of keeping it together. The statement made yesterday by the Luxembourg Minister for Foreign Affairs shows this very vividly. He made it clear that the European Union could fall apart and that very drastic events could take place in the next few months. Luxembourg is, of course, currently the Presidency of the European Union. This statement is very important in terms of the integrity of the European Union. Has the Estonian Government put in place any kind of crisis plan or scenario in case the European Union happens to change or disintegrate?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U14	Thank you. I see no reason to discuss today that the European Union is falling apart. The European Union has faced a number of difficult choices. We are taking the financial crisis or the migration crisis, the European Union has always come out of the crisis. I believe that, even now, the European Union is strong and united enough to overcome the problems that we are facing together.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U15	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U16	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. However, you have also agreed with the leaders of the European Union that the current crisis is the biggest since World War II. Therefore, it cannot be compared to other crises, financial crises or anything else, because no other crisis in the last 60 years is comparable to the current one. We're in a different situation. We cannot put this crisis together with the financial crisis, because the financial crisis did not have such an impact on the political landscape in 28 Member States of the European Union. We are looking at the latest election results in Slovakia and Poland, the popularity of Swedish Democrats in Sweden. It is obvious that distrust of the European Union is increasing very strongly throughout Europe. Therefore, you are now saying that Estonia does not consider it necessary to take into account other scenarios and we are simply awaiting the view. If it happens, it happens.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U17	Thank you. Over the last 25 years, Estonia has always considered it important that we are as well integrated as possible into Europe and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. Looking at Estonia's current state of affairs, Estonia is the most integrated country in Europe. We have the honour of being a member of NATO and the European Union, as well as of the OSCE and the OECD. We have made our informed choices to be with our partners, and we have chosen European countries in particular as partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U18	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister of the Interior! When Vao refugee centre was set on fire, there was a huge wave of propaganda in the mainstream media that you can see how strongly Estonians are against refugees, criminals must be found out and such hostility must not be demonstrated by the Estonian people. I have a question for you, Minister of the Interior. How far is the investigation? Who set Vao's refugee center on fire?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U20	Thank you. The investigation will continue, the clues will be checked. I have to admit, it was very difficult to take evidence at the scene. The weather was bad, it was raining. Similarly, some of the evidence was lost during the deletion process. The evidence could have been collected if the rain or extinguishing water had not gone on them. The investigation is continuing. Let's hope the police can track down whoever did this. At the moment, no one has been prosecuted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U22	The next question is to the Minister for Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, in charge of the Prime Minister's duties. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U23	Thank you. Mr Ossinovski, who you are today in the office of Prime Minister. My question concerns the efforts of your good colleague, Marina Kaljuranna. He has met several political groups here in the Riigikogu, trying to ensure that the Riigikogu has the necessary number of votes to ratify the border agreement between Estonia and Russia. Last week we also met with the Foreign Minister. He then said that despite the publication of the IRL press release, the government decided to support the ratification of the treaty, despite the fact that the government had to forward the treaty to the Riigikogu on the night before. Life has shown that if the three sections of government do not agree, decisions will not be taken. Yesterday, there were not enough votes, for example, for the 16-year-olds to have the right to vote. Can you confirm that the government is in agreement on the ratification of the border treaty? If he is not, and if he is the first and second opinion, what are the differences in opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U24	Thank you. As regards press releases, which may not have simplified the agreement at government level, I would ask you to ask the representatives of the IRL for an opinion on this. As far as the government is concerned, the government did indeed discuss the border agreements and at the table there were different opinions. Indeed, some cabinet members who happen to belong to the IRL's ranks considered it necessary to repeat what already exists in the explanatory memorandum and what concerns the legal continuity of Estonia and the application of the principle of Tartu Peace. In order for us to be able to proceed with this process and ratify these agreements in the Riigikogu, we were prepared to repeat what was already obvious to everyone. The IRL government delegation, as well as the head of the party, have confirmed that the IRL supports ratification of the border treaty. We remember that in the previous parliamentary term, this process became an active step in the direction of Mr Marko Mihkelson, today's vice-chairman of the IRL and the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee at the time. As far as I know, the IRL has also decided in its own council that the party will support the enforcement of border agreements. So as of today, I have the assurance that the government is united in this matter, although probably many members of the Riigikogu will vote differently on this matter. This is a matter of the free mandate of a member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U25	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U26	Thank you. The entry into force of a border agreement will not be facilitated if additional requirements arise in the meantime. A week ago, it became public knowledge that Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, a member of the Cabinet of Government, has signed a memorandum seeking to claim damages against the other party, Russia. Has it been possible for the government to discuss this and confirm this signature or, on the contrary, to discuss the government's lack of such demand and to withdraw its signature? How is it that the Minister's signature is withdrawn anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U27	As the cabinet members have said in the media, among others I said this, the signing of this memorandum had not been discussed by the government, and even less so, it had in any way been approved or decided. It was the Minister of Justice's initiative. If you look at it in general, it may not be bad in itself. The Baltic States are still discussing some issues. But, of course, you are right that in this context, broader foreign policy implications must also be taken into account. It is clear, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has repeatedly confirmed, that speeches on foreign policy issues, especially those of the members of the government, are being followed quite closely in the context of border agreements. In this context, I have also said that I do not consider this type of statement to be reasonable at this stage. But it certainly has not been a government decision or a joint action in this case. The Minister of Justice has worked with his colleagues without informing the government of this, as is generally not the case with good practice, especially when it comes to the foreign relations of the Republic of Estonia, which are also dealt with by other ministries and institutions, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We have talked about this with the parties involved, and we have jointly stated that this did not happen in accordance with very good practice. On the other hand, I hope that the signing of this memorandum will not, however, affect the enforcement of the border agreements in the Estonian Parliament or in the two chambers of the parliament of the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U28	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U29	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Minister! We are very pleased that the IRL has begun to defend the programmatic positions of the Conservative People's Party in the government. Of course, we are a little surprised that he did not coordinate it with his fellow governments. That is why I am asking you as Prime Minister. Can you say that you think it is necessary for the Estonian Government to form a clear position and to say whether there was an occupation at all, if it was, whether this occupation caused damage that could be recovered and whether they should somehow be recovered? We have not been very formalised in 20 years. What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U30	Thank you. In 2004 and 2005, this topic was discussed both in the government and in the Riigikogu. In the government, Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of Justice, and Kristiina Ojuland, Minister of Foreign Affairs, prepared this material when the government shaped its stance on possible compensation for damages claims. It says the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs could prepare this process. On the other hand, it has also been said that a broader international context should be created to address the issue. I think that this broader international context could really be created, but I do not believe that a joint statement by the three ministers is a necessary international background in order to take this matter forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U32	The next question is the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U33	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. Farmers have complained that they must orient themselves in the gaze of insane regulations. As a result of this complaint, the new rural development plan provided for the establishment of a advisory centre. This summer, a public procurement took place, resulting in the creation of an advisory centre with the Rural Promotion Foundation. As a MP, I have received very clear indications that this counselling centre is in a sleepy state, if not to say that it is almost out of work. Are you familiar with this? If you are aware, what has the Ministry planned to do to make the counselling centre work well?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U34	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I certainly cannot confirm as a minister that this centre is in a state of sleepiness, although the Council and the management are directly responsible for its work. The decision to bring this know-how together with the Rural Promotion Foundation was taken earlier. I know that in some places there are certain tensions as to whether all those advisors who were previously available to farmers in one region or another on a personal level, I mean the level of persons, can continue their work or not, and if none of them continues in some areas, could therefore lose a certain sense of security. The Ministry's recommendation was that all those advisors whose competence and skills are needed should be used up in the new advisory centre. Our experience has shown one thing very clearly: the more it has been possible to advise farmers, for example, when writing applications, the better the applications have been, and the better it has been for the PRIA to process and finance these activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U35	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U36	Thank you for your answer. I'll keep asking. However, how much money was allocated to the establishment of this advisory centre? Once again, I have information that there is a certain level of incompetence on some issues. When we defended one issue yesterday in the Committee on the Environment, officials said that it was environmental advice that would be essential. What are the plans to improve its competence?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U37	Thank you. In a strategic sense, the future role of this centre is extremely important. We cannot assume that there will be no difficulty in launching any new systems. Certainly there may be some inconvenience in the current situation, but we must take into account that the country has made a choice, that it has allocated money to the foundation, and that money will employ people and develop this system. This may mean that the principle of regionality and people's occupancy are looked at in order to keep the system running. It can be said that this creation of a "one job" and its provision of advice have gone to the state, at least statistically, cheaper. If more competence is needed to make the Centre work better, it will certainly be implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U38	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U39	Thank you. Honourable Urmas Kruuse! You have repeatedly said that you want to help our farmers as you can. However, farmers themselves say that they do not feel that their concerns are being heard. This is the biggest agricultural crisis since regaining independence. We know very well that pig production and milk production are deteriorating. Why, then, has the government failed to pay transitional subsidies for several years to the extent that the State could do so, and why can Latvia pay them? What would you say to farmers?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U40	Thank you, Reverend Asker! If we look at what the current government is doing, I certainly cannot agree that the government has been somehow lukewarm about the concerns of farmers. We had a very specific plan to help farmers and to bring relief to the sector. It had to do with at least two important things. Firstly, our long-term negotiations at European Union level in order to receive the emergency aid that we have actually achieved in cooperation with the other Baltic States. Today it can be said that what we wanted for the Baltic region and Poland is actually being implemented throughout the European Union. Estonia received the best support of 7.56 million euros based on its production potential and the size of its territory. The state placed just as much in it as it did at the end of this year and plans to pay out EUR 10.56 million. In addition, a bio-security investment measure was quickly redesigned for pig farming, with a utilisation rate of just over EUR 6 million. So I certainly can't agree with you on that. Secondly, as regards the European market in general and our dairy sector, for example, milk production has increased by 1.7% compared to September last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U42	The next question is to the Minister for Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, in charge of the Prime Minister's duties. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U43	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Minister! I am not addressing you as a person in charge of the Prime Minister, but as a political party chairman and a member of the cabinet. A few weeks ago, there was a story in the media that revealed that your party partner, the minister at the time, was Urve Palo, for the protection of your father's company, who tried to prevent the large fine imposed on this company in Lithuania. More or less at the same time, your father made a donation of EUR 40,000 to your party. It is worth noting that the party received a total of EUR 51000 in the same quarter, so this 40000 was a significant part of it. Every thinking person asks what is the logical connection between Minister Palo's activities and your father's donation and how much you are involved in it. Corruption in politics is a serious matter. We want to know how these things work in your party.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U44	Thank you. As for this story spread in the media, as the parties have confirmed several times, both the then Minister of Enterprise Urve Palo and the Ministry of the Economy, there has been no special treatment. All members of the Estonian Government, but primarily the Minister of Economic Affairs, the Minister of Enterprise and the Minister of Foreign Affairs and officials working in these ministries, as well as diplomats, will do their utmost to help Estonian companies abroad if they have the opportunity to do so. It's perfectly normal everyday practice. As far as I know, the request to write this letter came from the Estonian ambassador in Lithuania. So this is a traditional commercial diplomatic process. As regards your references to Oleg Ossinovski having an impact on the policies of the Social Democratic Party, this does not have any effect. But I understand the embarrassment. Indeed, there are many examples in the world; there are also examples in Estonia that the political activities of the father and his son are closely interwoven, for example when both are involved in politics at the same time. I don't know how to comment, but it's possible that in such cases a father really has a significant influence on his son's political activities. As I said, I cannot comment on this more precisely, because I have unfortunately never been in such a situation. So briefly, my father's influence on SDE policy is immeasurably less than your father's influence on EKRE policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U45	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U46	Thank you. Mart Helme has repeatedly applied for congress and has been authorized by the party. Of course he has influence. I still want to go over some numbers. In the fourth quarter of 2013, your father made a donation of EUR 50000 and that was half of all the donations in that quarter, in the third quarter of 2014, he donated EUR 30000, which was a third of all donations, and in the fourth quarter, EUR 30000, which was half of all donations. Are you really insulting our intelligence by claiming that the biggest donor in recent years has no impact on your party's decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U47	The answer is yes. Indeed, the person you mentioned has donated to the Social Democratic Party, these contributions have been public and as such transparent. The total amount of these donations represents a few per cent of the annual budget of the Social Democratic Party. I can't say the exact figures by heart, but I can find them for you if you have a deeper interest in the subject. I have said that, even though all this has been public and transparent, and here indeed there is no impact on socialist policy, the Social Democratic Party will not accept donations from the person mentioned below in the future in order to rule out any speculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U48	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U49	Mr Ossinovski, thank you for your answers. Inevitably, anyone who thinks and observes the world understands that it is only possible to do business in Russia if they are either in a good relationship with or in a good way with the regime there. This is an inevitability in Russia. These great donations, which have been very weighty in the budget of the Social Democratic Party, have been possible thanks to the transit business in Russia, i.e. thanks to the approval of the regime there. The question immediately arises as to the attitude within your party. How do you think the party feels about funding the Social Democratic Party with money coming from Russia? This money is logically also directly linked to political decisions, which may not directly serve the interests of the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U50	Thank you. I repeat, I don't think you heard that these donations made in different years only make up a few percent of the social democratic party's revenues. Most of the revenue from both the Social Democratic Party and possibly all other parties comes from the state budget. It is not appropriate to mention that these donations have a significant impact on the political work of the social democrats. As far as Oleg Ossinovski's business activities in other countries are concerned, in my role today, I will probably not be able to comment on this in any way, but by exceeding my powers as a cabinet member, I would say that, as far as I am concerned, most of his business activities take place in countries other than Russia. Most of it takes place in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Georgia and other countries, while Russia accounts for almost a tenth. This is my unofficial information that I can share with you to calm your mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U52	The next question is the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus. Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Minister for Rural Affairs! Since 21 July, classical swine fever has been diagnosed in domestic pigs. Many pig farms have entered the red, or third zone, which makes it extremely difficult for these producers to dispose of pigmeat. First, prices in the third zone are very low, but second, there is nowhere to sell the meat. You found that making canned products for these producers would be EUR 1.78 million. I've been talking to the producers. They say that this is not the solution and their pork does not reach the canned ones because they do not qualify, only producers who also have an industry, because they can simply offer a much cheaper price. Does canning help pig farmers who operate in zone three and, if so, how?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U54	Thank you, good questioner! Let's just remember history, how this canned measure even came about. It was because the pig farmers in the third zone said that they could not take the pigs out of the farm because no one would accept them. The purpose of this measure is to mitigate the market deviation in the third zone, which is linked to two reasons: it is not possible to export from that zone and prices are very low. Indeed, at one meeting a somewhat different story began to be spoken, and it was not all pig farmers, but some of them. That is why we also made an additional inquiry to the Chamber, which confirmed that this measure was necessary. We've tendered for the first time, we've ordered about 100,000 cans of cans. We also had a question when those operators who initially said that they certainly did not intend to participate in this procurement and did not find it helpful to them, in fact, proved to be the winner of the procurement. I very much hope that a member of the Riigikogu will make an inquiry to them because a member of the Riigikogu is free in his or her own questions and will and can then inform the public what this reason is.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U55	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister for Rural Affairs! Estonian pig farmers have offered a number of measures to solve the crisis in the pig-growing sector. One solution would be that they would be supported by support for sows. If farmers tell you what to do to help them get out of the crisis, why don't you listen to them? Why have you not taken these measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U57	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I must grieve you a little: we have listened to the farmers. You're talking about a sow grant. Among the extraordinary support we pay out is the sow or breeding premium, as it has been put out. The second part relates to price compensation in zone three. The pig farmers operating in the third zone will certainly be compensated for the loss of revenue as a result of the fall in prices. If the honourable Riigikogu processes amendments to this year's budget, the Ministry will be able to start paying these allowances in cooperation with the PRIA.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U58	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U59	Thank you, manager. Minister for Rural Affairs! The faction of the Riigikogu's Centre Party was in Lääne-Virumaa for the past week. We met a lot of good farmers there. The meetings were attended not only by milk producers but also by cereal producers. Everyone complained that there was no such difficult situation as today for Estonian farmers to show about recent history. I ask again what the previous speaker has already asked about the concerns of pig farmers in zone three. After all, the damage they bear every day because they are located in this zone and cannot be realised at the market price of pigmeat has been paid out to them today. You have just said that it is now dependent on the Riigikogu and the government. Does it really have to go so far, is it not possible to find additional measures, such as direct funding from the reserve fund, so that these people and farms can be moved on? It's not normal. They have bills on the corner of the table for EUR 60000 to EUR 70,000, and suppliers expect them to pay them off. Can't you come up with a faster solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U60	Thank you. I dare say that the Estonian state is one of the fastest contributors to this support granted by the European Union. In any case, this process requires a prior procedure. That is why we have chosen this route so that we can pay out emergency support. As I have said earlier on this board, I will also say today that the PRIA and the country have made an effort so that the payment of additional direct payments can also begin in December. But as we have read in the press, it seems that some do not have these problems as big as they originally went out. Both the citizens and I have been amazed at the import of imported pigs during the difficult time of the Estonian pig farmer. So I also count on you, as a member of the Riigikogu, to make such inquiries. You might want to let the public know why these things are like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U61	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U62	Now Ain Lutsepp is asking Home Secretary Hanno Pevkur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U63	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The number of staff of the Police and Border Guard Board has reached a critical limit which already undermines the Agency's ability to ensure security. In some areas and areas there is a shortage of workers, I am also thinking of the patrol service and supervision in detention facilities. There have been tragic consequences. What are you prepared to do to improve the situation at the Police and Border Guard Board? What measures is the Ministry prepared to take to improve the capabilities of the Police and Border Guard Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U64	Thank you. It's going to take a long time to answer that question. I agree with you in this respect, I have even said that the staff of the Police and Border Guard Board are such that it can no longer be reduced. That is why my decision was that the cut-off task that we have agreed in the government is not to be extended to the Police and Border Guard Board this year and in anticipation of the next year, the Elik Police and Border Guard Board will not have to lay off any people as a result of the so-called state task. In the area of the Ministry of the Interior, this total was 55 people in the next year. It's an important decision. The second decision relates to the government's objective of channelling it to the most necessary places in the distribution of wages for the following year. It was very important to us. The government decided that the payroll fund would only increase in four sectors: internal security, education, culture and social work. This gives us the opportunity to increase the police payroll by 3.2% next year, perhaps a little more. If the Police and Border Guard Board finds additional resources, it is very good, but this percentage is available in the state budget if the Riigikogu approves it. Thirdly, it is very important that we are in the process of reviewing the study process of the National Defence Academy in order to direct young people more quickly to police work, which may allow the police to gain more growth. I'm sure there's a lot of other ways to get more cops in the field.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U65	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U66	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! It was mentioned here that young people should be quickly directed to work after their studies. Can't that be the reason for professionalism?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U67	Thank you. I'm convinced I won't. We are currently studying very closely the practices of other countries. The delegation of the Academy of Home Affairs visited the Dutch model, which has proved to be one of the most effective in Europe. I've seen the American training arrangements myself. When comparing the training of Estonian internal security workers, for example, with training in the United States, the Netherlands or other European countries, we place more emphasis on theory and less on practice than on proportions. I think it makes a lot of sense to discuss the fact that the internship rate would increase for young police officers to learn more at work. Whether this model is the so-called 2:1 that two parts of theory and one part of practice, or there is another relationship here, it is currently being discussed at the National Defence Academy. But I am absolutely convinced that it would make sense to increase the percentage of traineeships. This would provide an opportunity to get young cadets to work faster, which would increase the number of law enforcement officers on the streets.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U68	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U69	Thank you. Dear Hanno Pevkur! My question relates to a lack of frame. Unfortunately, there has been a great deal of negative news in recent months that people are going to disappear, and young men are going to disappear. Opayments are broken by concern. These people will not be found, and worried parents will turn to sensitivities. The last such case was in the town of Jõgeva. People approached me and asked you what had been done to make the results better and to find these people. What is being done to remedy this situation, and how much does this situation have to do with this very lack of frame?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U70	Thank you. I wouldn't draw any parallels between the lack of frame and the disappearance of people or finding them. Let's look at the latest cases when people have not been found yet or when people have been found. There are very different scenarios. In certain cases, people have committed suicide; in other cases, the solution has yet to be found. The võru case, the disappearance of a boy named Markus, has found a lot of media coverage. In addition to the police forces, the search was remembered to involve volunteers and defence allies, but unfortunately, the case is still unresolved. Every family has a terrible tragedy when the family member is gone. I can confirm that the police are using all possibilities, whether criminal proceedings have been initiated or administrative proceedings are taking place. Just last night, I got the last update on the Võru case. It has used all the resources we can: helicopter, drone, manpower, volunteers, interrogations, surveys, checks of land until the sonar is used on Lake Tamula. So we're gonna use every chance we can find people. I see no reason to talk about a lack of human resources here. I'd rather thank all the volunteers who have come to help find missing people on these occasions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U71	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U72	Now the Minister of Rural Affairs of Urmas Kruuse answers and asks for Arno Bridge. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Minister for Rural Affairs! We all know that the prevention of the spread of swine fever was the weakest in Estonia compared to Poland, Lithuania and Latvia, and the result is also known. In Latvia, 600 pigs went to be executed, then over 20,000 in Estonia. The consequences are very terrible and sad. We have already talked about the issue of who is responsible for this unfinished work. You have said that by November it should be clear who these veterinary workers are and to what extent they are guilty of their inaction that we have come to such consequences. I'd like to hear how far this thing is.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U74	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I recall that in July 2014, three Baltic States, Poland and the European Commission, agreed in Vilnius a very clear disease control plan and a strategy for combating African swine fever in these countries. In fact, all these countries have followed this plan. It is true that we have made changes to this plan in cooperation with these countries, particularly as regards the restriction of the spread of feral pigs. The Minister for Rural Affairs has referred to what is known to the public that the Ministry of Rural Affairs has initiated disciplinary proceedings against Ago Pärtel concerning events in Vireen when the Director of Vireen lied to the public for long weeks about the use of a mobile pig burner.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U75	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U76	Thank you. I have a question for you too, Urmas Kruuse. I'm asking about the Torma case. People complain about why so much vassing and lying about this case. There was so much talking about it in so many ways. Let's take specifically the burial of pig carcasses. At first it was said that they were buried seven metres deep, then it turned out that it had been done differently. It was lied that the surface was covered with a three - foot [3 m] layer of soil, not actually covered; it was only later when the carcasses began to come out of the ground. At first it was said that it was immediately covered with chlorine lime, in fact it was done later. They lied about the burial place, said they were buried in a dump where the imbecile was collected, but actually buried next to where the imbecile is not collected. Then, when the extra work was done, they said that it would be all right for good, but a week ago, we heard that this place was covered with shitty water again. Why can't we fix this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U77	Thank you, Reverend Asker! The Minister for Rural Affairs has also apologised to the public for this case, precisely because I believe that the local government and the community have not been involved in the management of this process. Indeed, all the requirements were formally met. The County Disease Control Commission sat together this weekend and sent a message to the local government that it was going to bury the carcasses in Torma. That was the point at that point, and that is where I think quite a lot of misunderstandings and problems arose. As far as the environmental hazards or safety of this place are concerned, the Federal Veterinary Office is certainly based here on the competence of the Ministry of the Environment. Veterinary officials cannot say which place is the safest place for the environment. This particular place has been considered safe. Before it began to be buried, samples of certain wells were taken. These excavations shall be monitored and shall be monitored for a period of at least five years. At the joint meeting of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Rural Affairs on this issue, representatives of the Municipality of Torma and the Council were also present. Most of the proposals made by the local community have been taken into account. They were satisfied with what was going on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U78	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U79	Marika Tuus-Laul will be able to ask the Minister for Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski a question and the Minister will be able to answer. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U80	Thank you. Mr. Ossinovski! The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development recently disclosed the OECD that the amount that Estonian people have to pay themselves to take care of their health and which is constantly increasing is already approaching the critical limit of 25% of health expenditure. This suggests, as the OECD said, that people on lower incomes will no longer receive health care and health care will not be available. We hear there will be major redundancies in PERH and the University of Tartu Hospital again. We know that the queues are huge, for example 66% of PERH's doctors have no available appointment time in the next six months. What are you gonna do? We're in a total crisis here, the budget of the Health Insurance Fund is down.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U81	Thank you very much. As far as the Estonian health system is concerned in general, the same international organisations, whether the OECD or the World Health Organisation WHO, have clearly confirmed in all their studies that the Estonian health system is one of the best performing, in the sense that it is effective and actually provides fairly good health care at quite little cost. Of course, financial pressure on the health insurance fund is quite clear, especially in the long term. The working age population in Estonia is declining and the population is ageing. In the longer term, we really need to think about how to ensure sustainable funding for the health insurance fund and the entire healthcare system. The Government of the Republic has agreed that the working group that will start working at the Ministry of Social Affairs will make its proposals by March next year on how to better organise healthcare funding. We are looking at options for broadening the tax base and treatment opportunities for different target groups. The public discussion can certainly also be held in the Riigikogu. Now I come to the beginning of your question. Indeed, according to the OECD study, our patients' own contribution to healthcare has increased in recent years. It was 20,6% in 2012, 21,7% in 2013 and 23,8% in 2014. The population health agenda has set itself the goal that it should not rise by more than 25%. That's what we're gonna stay within. However, if we look at the area in which Estonia has a high level of ownership, compared with other countries, this place is dental care for adults. It is a pleasure to announce that the Government of the Republic is also planning a change here and intends to partially compensate adult dental care patients from 2017 onwards. So things are getting better.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U82	Thank you to the ministers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U83	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 7th working week session of the 2nd plenary session on Wednesday. Does anyone have a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, 10 November, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, with 5 votes in favour and 2 against, decided that it was necessary to initiate a very necessary bill. This is a draft law amending the Local Government Council Election Act and related laws. Until yesterday, it was number 42. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U85	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I will report an inquiry to Minister of Finance Sven Sester. This concerns the pooling of posts under the Ministry of Finance. The coalition agreement sets out the principle that the number of jobs in the government sector will decrease in line with the decline in the working age population. The aim is to reduce duplication between ministries and state agencies, overregulation and red tape in the public sector. In total, 750 people are planned to be made redundant, or 1.5% of the public sector's workforce. The savings after redundancies would amount to around EUR 13 million per year. 11 people are planned to be gathered in the administration of the Ministry of Finance. However, Rainer Laurits, Head of Public Relations of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, has argued that the reduction in their membership will be greater than that prescribed by the government. Their strategy focuses on making the organisation's activities more effective and on reducing its composition. A further 90 people were recruited there in 2012. In the course of the recent reform, however, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board's workforce was reduced by 198 people, and then ten new employees were allowed to be hired to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board due to low-paid tax refunds. It is now planned to reduce staff again. At the same time, we are in a situation where the Estonian tax pit had reached 548 million euros as of 2013. We have four questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U87	On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted one draft and one inquiry, with which we will be working under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 84 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U88	We will pick up where the debate left off yesterday because of the end of working time. During the discussion, the Estonian Free Party Group has initiated a draft law amending the Income Tax Act and the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws 78. Please, waitress Andres Ammas back to the speaker's desk! At least three questioners have no question. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U89	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! I have a question for the initiators of the bill. Did you not consider taking this bill back on your own because you have simply forgotten the tax share of a company or a legal person, as you said? We cannot discuss this draft in this way, because it specifically states that it also concerns the taxation of legal persons. I will give just one example of what the question might be if we start to proceed with this draft. For example, you are gradually raising personal income tax, but the income tax on the dividend may seem to remain the same. After all, there will be a difference and there will be an additional incentive to show wage income as a capital gain. That's still a problem. There's a lot of questions, I can't read them all in one minute. Did you consider taking this bill back and making a proper bill instead?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U90	Thank you. Honourable questioner! The example in your question is absolutely relevant. Of course, we've considered all the circumstances. However, the honourable questioner and everyone in this Chamber, see, the draft tabled by the opposition usually arrives in front of the House as late as possible. We put this bill into Riigikogu proceedings on 18 August. What date is today, everyone can look it up on the calendar. We wanted the debate to begin, however, and we could explain the content of our draft, listen to the arguments against it and answer the questions. It is known that the draft can be substantially improved and improved between the two readings. As I pointed out yesterday, the content of our draft is, if you read the explanatory memorandum, then you will understand it on salary income. We would like to make these improvements between two readings, which Mr Sõerd has specifically pointed out to be necessary. So we consider it possible to clarify the draft substantially before the second reading and to move on to this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U91	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U92	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Referring to the draft explanatory memorandum does not clarify, but makes matters more confusing. I quote from the sentence in the explanatory memorandum that the law will reduce the tax burden on employers. This is shown in Section 5 before the tables in Annex 1 are explained. So instead, it lowers the tax burden on employers. However, there are absolutely no points in this draft that would somehow lower the tax burden on employers, but, as you have also agreed, there are points that will increase the tax burden on employers. Why have you included such a completely incorrect explanation and impact assessment here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U93	Thank you, dear questioner. Our draft does not in any way increase the tax burden on employers. At the committee meeting, the argument was that if the rate of income tax increases, the employer might be under pressure to raise wages, but the bill does not refer directly to this. Our draft, on the contrary, reduces this 'tax wedge', i.e. by looking at labour costs by the employer, and by looking at net wages by the contractor. This tax wedge between the two really reduces our bill. If he wishes, the employer can offer the employee a significantly higher net wage with the same labour costs. We think that this is why people who have so far given up relatively low-paid work could start working and young people with lower qualifications could still accept a low-paid job. So I don't think our bill will hurt employers in any way. The employer can reduce labour costs in such a way that the net salary of the employee does not change or he can pay the employee a higher net salary so that the labour costs do not increase. In fact, we estimate that both employers and employees will benefit from our draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U94	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U95	Good manager! Good waitress! We are talking about an income tax exemption for a minimum wage of EUR 400. But this same hall passed a law in spring that allows people who receive up to 480 euros' salary to recover all income tax. Why are we now making a new law that makes things worse? The law, which will apply from 1 January, allows for a much higher rate of refund of income tax, including those with higher pay. That's what's meant for the low-paid.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U96	Thanks to the questioner! I also said in yesterday's report that, yes, the two drafts are essentially similar in terms of purpose. We undoubtedly acknowledge the good will of the IRL when it comes to initiating a tax refund for low-paid people. However, we consider this idea of the IRL to be unreasonably complicated. We are afraid that this has been pointed out by the newspaper Äripäev and by economic journalists in other publications as well, that this tax refund system may result in tax fraud and that the payment of envelope wages may increase. This threat was referred to in a delicate way at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but quite specifically by the Head of the Tax and Customs Board, Marek Helm, who feared that the tax administration would not have the full strength to verify how fair, accurate and correct these tax refunds are, in addition to all its larger tasks. So, yes, we are on the same path as you, ladies and gentlemen, but we think that our system is a little simpler and less fraudulent.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U97	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I read in the explanatory memorandum that the main objective of the draft is to introduce a fairer tax system that would strongly improve the economic situation of low-wage earners. But this bill increases the tax burden on all workers by 4%, regardless of their income. How, then, does he improve the economic situation of low earners? Why don't you explain it to the members of the Riigikogu again?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U99	Of course. Thank you for your question. I am pleased that this time, my honourable colleague, has taken a serious look at our draft. In fact, as you can understand, we cannot predict the exact percentage, but we believe that this bill will benefit about 80% of all people who pay income tax. True, about 20% will cost a little more than they have so far. So we're going to put 80% and 20% of them on some weight bowls. 80% of net income increases because the increase in the tax-free minimum compensates and even exceeds the potential loss caused by the increase in the tax rate. So 80% wins, but 20% really loses. That is the political choice that we propose to you. But I would add that we estimate that the loss to these 20% high-wage earners, given their salary, is extremely small. They almost can't sense it. However, 80% of those who win and who, in essence, have directed all of their current service to everyday consumption feel that victory very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U100	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I wanted to ask you about the effects of your bill, which are written in the explanatory memorandum. Let's put aside the tax receipts, let's look at the VAT. In my opinion, you have completely arbitrarily calculated VAT estimates. I'm going to ask you a question about that. You will only count on the VAT that will be added as the tax-free minimum increases in the lower part of the wage scale. However, you yourself said that 20% will pay more income tax. After all, these 20% also consume less and pay less VAT. In fact, these people probably belong to a pay range with higher revenues, and they have therefore paid more VAT. Why have you forgotten the part by which VAT falls? The hypothetical part that should come in, you've counted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U102	Thanks to the questioner! There's no way I can agree with your hypothesis that higher-paid people are going to consume less. Why would they do that? Their income is essentially not affected by this change. It is such a tiny loss that it hardly changes their consumption habits in any way. Our prognosis is, yes, hypothetical. You realise, even, that very precise figures cannot be mentioned in such cases. But it relies, yes, on the calculation that the extra income of low-wage earners goes into consumption to a large extent. If the income is so low, it is not possible to save, plus VAT is here and there is probably more to come from excise duties. I think that the magnitude of our calculations is still appropriate and correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U103	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! With my speech, I would just like to express my support for your draft and say that this is a very right step; we must forcefully increase the tax-free minimum. This is very important for people who earn little and who, unfortunately, really do exist in Estonia. As you said, 80% of the implementation of this draft would win, and 20% will not actually perceive this tax increase. This would be a very important step if it were to materialise, including the development of the Estonian economy as a whole. I hope there will be a time when we Social Democrats and the Free Party maybe somebody else will come to help, let's do this thing. So I support you and wish for strength!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U105	It was a question, you have to answer. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U106	I have understood Mr Palo's question as to whether I agree with his views. Yeah, totally.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U107	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U108	Thank you. Good waitress! From your previous response to the increase in the employer's tax burden, I conclude that the initiators have not understood at all how the logic of the Income Tax Act works. Changing this percentage directly affects the employer's tax burden when we are talking, for example, about a special preferential tax or something else. It's a shame you haven't figured it out, but that's why. My question is as follows. You have written an explanatory statement on the objective of the draft, that the changes will not worsen the situation of more successful and wealthier members of society. It was a quote again. After all, you also admit that they are actually worsening. Why did you write another false statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U109	Thank you, dear questioner. There were two sides to your question. With regard to improving our competence in tax matters, we hope to do so within the next three and a half years, with your help, and to find even better justifications for these proposals that you believe remain unclear today. Although I stick to my earlier view that the purpose of our draft is completely exhaustive and well presented in the explanatory memorandum. So, frankly, I can't give you a new answer. I can tell you again, yes, what I have already said, that 20% of the people's situation is really getting a little worse. If you don't think the explanatory statement was accurate in this respect, I'm sorry. We will improve it between two readings, if possible, and we will also explain it in our future reports. But once again, for the high-paid, the change is so small that we don't think they'll even know it. On the other hand, those on low wages perceive. That's our assessment, and that's what I'm sticking to on the remote today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U110	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U111	Thank you. I would remind Mr Palo that the Social Democrats have always supported progressive income tax. This bill actually increases income tax for all working people in Estonia, whether the salary of a person is 500 or 5000 euros. This is not, as far as I know, the ideological position of the Social Democrats. But that's it. I come to the reduction of the tax burden on employers, to which Mr Kisler also referred, just to understand this logic. Is the assumption that you have written in the explanatory memorandum of the draft lowering the tax burden on employers based on a 4% reduction in people's wages? Perhaps this is because income tax rises by 4%? Has your calculation come from there?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U112	I'm quite clear now, good questioner, I didn't understand you. I'm sorry! But our reasoning is based on the following logic. If we substantially increase the tax-free minimum to the extent that we offer in the draft, 80% of employees will receive higher net wages. Agreements are likely to take place more easily in low-paid jobs in the future and the employer's labour costs will not increase, but the employee will be able to offer significantly higher net wages. This, as I said yesterday, is likely to attract employees to work and work instead of living from social assistance. That won't do them any harm. On the other hand, I don't think anyone's gonna recalculate the current wages. However, I do not think that employers are going to reduce gross wages for the sake of our bill by someone who is currently working. I don't think so. I don't think there are such employers, if that's the logic you meant.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U113	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable performer! Please tell me, when you read from behind, does the fourth question refer to the possibility of a new government being born soon? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U115	Thank you, dear questioner. Last night, the address of Rapla's local government leaders spread in the Estonian public space, where attention was drawn to several shortcomings in Estonia's governance, in particular the shortcomings in the implementation of administrative reform and state reform. The local governments of Raplamaa were so brave and thought it would be right for the current government to resign. I also think, and I believe that I am supported by the members of my group, that Estonia has the potential for a much stronger and more intelligent government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U116	We are discussing the old draft 78. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U117	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, This bill is also sympathetic for the Centre Party Group. It needs to be improved a little bit, but the point that is being made is right, because it is not possible to move forward in the same way. We share money all the time in this group of poor people, but the result is not actually achieved. I am pleased that the Social Democrats also like this bill. What do you think's gonna happen to this bill? How should the Social Democrats behave in the Chamber today and how should they vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U118	Thank you, dear questioner. I'm sure the Socialists are in their own head, and they don't need my advice from this remote. But I can tell you what I hope. I hope that they will act on their conscience when voting, not perhaps in the most pleasant way imposed on them by agreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U119	Martin Kukk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U120	Thank you. Good waitress! In your speech, you have mentioned several times that this specific draft does not make the situation of employers, or entrepreneurs, worse. If you propose a 4% increase in income tax, then all the employee-related expenses and taxes paid on them by the employer will automatically increase, as they are directly linked to the tax percentage. What do you rely on when you claim that the situation of employers and entrepreneurs will not deteriorate?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U121	Thank you, dear questioner. I still rely on the same statements that have already been made in the report and in the answers. There has always been and will always be some pressure on the employer to raise his salary. It's perfectly natural. It will be 4% or 5% in the coming years; it will be difficult to predict precisely today. But I don't think our bill's gonna get us into this process any faster. There will always be some pressure on the employer, regardless of our bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U122	Thank you, Andres Ammas! There are no further questions for the originator's waitress. The rapporteur for the Monetary Commission is Aivar Sõerd. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U123	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft law amending the Income Tax Act and the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws initiated by the Estonian Free Party Group at its meeting on 27 October. At the meeting of the Commission, Mr Andres Ammas, representative of the initiators of the draft, presented it. He explained the purpose of the draft, which was to improve the economic situation of low-wage earners. In order to meet this objective, the three-year target is to increase the tax-free minimum to EUR 400 per month and to raise the tax rate to 24% to cover the resulting costs. The Government of the Republic had decided not to support the draft at its meeting on 17 September. The positions of the Government of the Republic were presented at the meeting of the Commission by Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance. I will summarise the reasons for not supporting the draft, which were set out in a letter from the Government to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. First of all, the government coalition has already envisaged measures with a similar objective and introduced an increase in tax-free income, albeit at a lower rate. Tax-free income will increase to 205 euros per month by 2019. In addition, the support measure will take effect next year for low-paid people whose gross monthly wage is less than EEK 649 when working full-time. The government's view was that the effects of the draft need more in-depth analysis. Raising the rate of income tax as a source of cover is inappropriate, as it worsens Estonia's competitiveness in a situation where Latvia will reduce the rate of personal income tax from 23% to 22% in 2016 and the current rate of 15% in Lithuania. In addition to natural persons, the proposed increase in the rate of income tax would also concern companies. In the course of the Commission's consultation, the initiator asked whether it considered that this draft would lead to a reduction in wage poverty. It was also asked how the draft contributes to the creation of new jobs that the initiators are forecasting. The Commission also had the opinion that the economic pressure on the employer would increase, as the employee was not interested in having his net salary reduced, and the possible difference would probably be borne by the employer in practice. The initiator of the draft act disagreed. The Commission also had the view that the reduction of social tax is a more effective measure, especially when viewed by the employer. The question was whether the draft would also increase the tax rate on dividends. The initiator of the draft act explained that there was a mistake, and the initiators aimed only at raising the rate applicable to wage income. The originator considered that this deficiency could be remedied in the course of the draft proceedings. The Commission took such procedural decisions: to propose that the draft be rejected at first reading (by 7 members of the Commission, 4 against, 4 abstentions) and to put the draft on the agenda by 10 November. The trial was postponed from this date to today. A consensual decision was also taken by the Commission to appoint a speaker to represent the Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U124	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U125	Thank you. Good waitress! You said that you discussed this and found that a 1% reduction in social tax is more sensible than an increase in the tax-free minimum. Please explain this again! I don't understand how a 1% social tax reduction helps people. So how does he get more money to do it and...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U126	Thank you for your question. You forgot that this is not only about increasing the tax-free minimum, but also about raising the income tax rate. The reduction in social tax clearly reduces the employer's tax burden, the increase in the rate of income tax, on the contrary, increases the tax burden on labour. But in this sense, I agree with you that an increase in the tax-free minimum is certainly an appropriate measure and will happen in the coming years. Yes, not at the speed prescribed in this draft, but it will rise and quite noticeably, from today's 154 euros per month to 205 euros by 2019.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U127	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U128	Mr. President! Honourable speaker! Please also say the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U129	The Commission's proposal is to reject the draft at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U130	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Herkel, speech by the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U131	Mr. Chairman! Honourable representatives of the people! Very briefly, on behalf of the Free Party Group, I will make three points. Firstly, this draft is clearly a better measure to give tax relief to low-paid people. What the government carried out here in spring as a tax refund was certainly a noble plan, but it creates an enormous number of technical problems, there are opportunities to shirk and, in fact, if you go further, it turns out that there are also such exceptions that not all those in need may receive this benefit. That's the first point. The second point is that this draft is an ideology of reducing the level of personal income tax that has clearly gone too far, on the one hand, and the ideology of progressive income tax that is completely incompatible with it. We offer a reasonable compromise here. It could be agreed that the tax-free minimum would increase strongly from below, and that the overall rate of income tax should be increased accordingly. You could say it's a step, too, but it's only one level of taxation. Finally, I believe that this draft has broad support. This support has already been expressed here by the Social Democrats. I really hope that they will also be guided by this understanding in the vote. To say the truth, this is a rather dangerous path for society and the state, when a matter as important as taxes is shaped in a way that, to say the least, by a semi-punitive method. I recall, despite all the respect for the Reform Party, that they did get a very good result in the elections, but they do not have an absolute majority in the Riigikogu. It seems to me that all or almost all other parties would be looking for another solution to the issue of income tax. It is not very constructive for a party to stick to this issue so strongly. I really hope that those who have taken themselves hostage by means of the government coalition agreement will soon come out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U132	Mr Kiisler on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica. Is there a speech from the floor?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U133	Yeah. I would just like to point out that, as the initiators themselves have admitted, there are several errors in this draft. The initiators did not want this draft to turn into a law to have the effects that are unambiguously apparent from the current provisions. Secondly, the effects have been clearly misjudged. It is not precisely understood that if the Income Tax Act amends specific paragraphs, what does this mean, for example, for the employer's tax burden. This has led to a situation where false claims are made in explaining the effects of the explanatory memorandum, either accidental or semi-consciously. Obviously, processing the drafts in this way or, worse still, their possible form of law would be contrary to the principles of good lawmaking. I therefore believe that, in the current situation, it would be most sensible for the Free Party Group to withdraw this flawed draft from the procedure as an initiator. You have the opportunity to come to your senses and take the bill back now because it's so flawed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U134	Andres Anvelt, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U135	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In particular, it bowed to good colleagues from the Free Party that you are closely following our political situation and also the situation in the government. I remember very well that just when this draft was handed over, the Socialist agenda was the opening of a coalition agreement, and a point of taxation there was essentially that proposal that you brought before us in your draft. I dare tell you that we still have a lot of good points in the program. Read it thoroughly. Surely there will be a time when, for example, the two of us can put together the government, and then we will put all these wonderful things into practice. In today's political reality, I say very clearly, increasing the tax-free minimum is, in my opinion and in my group, an indispensable step to improve the daily livelihood of the poorest part of the population, and this was also discussed when the Coalition Treaty was opened. The current government must also take this as one of the first commitments every year when drawing up the state budget, looking at the state's potential. In the meantime, however, it must be based on the same, I would emphasise once again, the political reality, the ability to bear the responsibility of government and the ability to develop what I suggest you as our future certainly good partners. We were just looking for a compromise with our two partners today. I know that you have eight partners in the group, and that is why it is much harder to find consistency in common, as they say. We are not hostages, we are definitely moving towards taking the same step in the future. Although, yes, we are more in favour of progressive income tax, but we are always open to compromises. So once again, read our program and find good points. It is certainly possible to find quite a clear view of the world there. Let's do it! Give me time to set the tide! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U136	There are no more requests for negotiation, I will conclude the negotiations. The Steering Committee has proposed to reject the draft 78 at first reading. This proposal needs to be voted on in plenary. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 78 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 51 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this proposal, 35 against and no abstentions. Draft 78 has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U137	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Act on the Status of Members of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The initiating waitress is Martin Helme. Please! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U138	So...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U139	Wait a minute, Martin, wait a minute! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Honourable members of the Riigikogu, the waitress would like a word!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U140	Mr. President! Colleagues! We bring before you a bill consisting of a simple line. This eliminates the cost benefits of a member of the Riigikogu Act § 30, i.e. a member of the Riigikogu. From our point of view, this is, first of all, the most important of all, the cost of money that violates the public's sense of justice. Secondly, we find that the public funding of political parties in Estonia is so generous that almost all the costs for which cost benefits are currently used can also be covered by this way. Thirdly, the very decent salary of a member of the Riigikogu also makes it possible to bear the costs that are currently being covered by cost benefits, especially car leases. I shall briefly summarise the purpose of the draft. The draft proposes to stop paying expenses to a member of the Riigikogu, as the salary of a member of the Riigikogu and the state budget allocation for political parties are large enough at the moment to make the necessary expenses for dealing with politics and communicating with voters. We consider that there are certain costs which are so-called very specific to our work, but in our opinion it does not outweigh the negative aspects of the cost benefits mentioned above. When we talked about this in the Commission, the questions were quite acute, but we think that this is the one thing that is right and necessary. I won't talk any further. If anyone wants to ask questions, I can explain in more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U141	Thank you. There are no questions for the rapporteur. The rapporteur for the Constitutional Commission is Andre Sepp. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U142	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, In the Constitutional Committee, the first reading of the draft law amending the Act on the Status of Member of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, took place on 29 October. Martin Helme, the initiator's representative, was also invited. I will give a brief overview of what happened in the Commission. The representative of the initiator of the bill explained that the bill aims to eliminate the cost benefits paid to members of the Riigikogu. The justification is that each year political parties receive a large amount from the state budget and there is no reason to pay any more money for political action. The members of the Riigikogu also receive monthly remuneration, which should allow them to move around Estonia and cover work-related expenses. In addition, cost benefits are often abused and the public has repeatedly and violently spoken against cost benefits. The members of the committee heard the explanations of the initiator's representative and asked him questions. It was asked whether the initiator offered alternatives to the cost benefits or whether the proposal simply limited itself to the abolition of the cost benefits. The originator explained his logic that no one would seek or offer alternatives until the cost benefits were paid. In the opinion of the initiators of the draft act, the reimbursements should be abolished before they are paid, and alternatives could then be considered. The initiators admit that the work of a member of the Riigikogu is very specific and involves reasonable costs that could be compensated, but the current system is not satisfactory. The Commission was asked whether the initiators of the draft had discussed what these alternatives could be. The representative replied that they proposed to reduce the cost benefits by 10 to 15% in the Riigikogu parental body and to stop the reimbursement of car leasing payments, but this proposal did not find any support. It was also asked that if cost benefits were abolished and only then started to come up with a new procedure for the reimbursement of expenses related to the work of a member, what would happen in the meantime and how would the costs of the work of a member of the Riigikogu be financed at that time. The representative of the initiator of the draft act replied that the draft could enter into force from the beginning of the mandate of the next Riigikogu or to enter into force another later date could be set. At the moment, the draft is planned to enter into force in general terms. It was asked whether the initiators of the draft had thought that if cost benefits were abolished, they could be replaced by a wage supplement, in which case wages would increase. The originator's representative replied that this is certainly not their proposal and they do not believe that the cost benefits should be part of the remuneration. Finally, it was asked whether the initiators of the draft had examined how the issue of cost benefits was regulated in the neighbouring countries of Estonia. We have received the answer that in most parliaments, MPs are paid expenses, but this is done in very different ways. For example, in Latvia, the MEP's salary is about twice the salary of the Estonian MP and the cost benefits are significantly lower; in Finland, the situation is more or less similar. Overall, there are very different approaches here in Europe. The Government of the Republic gave up its opinion on this bill. The Commission decided to put the draft law on the plenary agenda by 10 November (consensually), proposed to reject the draft law (consensually) and appointed Andre Sepa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U143	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U144	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! You said in one sentence that in Latvia, the pay and expenses of the MP are lower than in Estonia and a similar situation is also in Finland. Wasn't that a glitch? As far as I know, in Finland, MEPs' salaries are still considerably higher than in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U145	Thank you for your question. I was talking about the author's response. When asked how it was regulated, the answer was that in Latvia the MEP's salary was about twice the salary of the Estonian MP and the cost benefits were significantly lower. In Finland, the situation is more or less similar to that of Estonia. In case I was wrong, I'm sorry! That was the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U146	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U147	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, During the electoral campaign that took place relatively recently, just six months ago, one issue that had been very often heard at meetings with people had to do with the cost benefits paid to members of the Riigikogu. The subject has been irritating to the public and has been insulting to people's justice for a long time. Not only have we now had leasing abuse, mayonnaise checks, and do not know what else, but there have been such things before. There has been some cumulative effect. The public wants to see delegates as people who do not have any extra privileges, the most visible expression of which is cost compensation. Yeah, respectables, you get it right. We want to reduce our income. We want to reduce our income so that we are more like ordinary citizens. What else do we want? The formation of food chains based on political parties has become a tragedy of Estonian policy. These food chains also exist in this hall, among the MPs. Cost benefits are one of the components of these food chains. In Estonian politics, we want people to be primarily involved in representing their voters on the basis of their convictions and beliefs, not in gaining benefits. You get it perfectly right. People need not be in politics in order to receive a higher salary here than Estonia's average salary, plus cost benefits and other privileges. I do not think that this is what people involved in politics should have in mind in their daily activities. It is our duty to deal with politics, represent our voters and try to shape Estonia's life in such a way as to please our voters as much as possible. That is why, in the name of justice, in order to break down the food chains and introduce honesty, we are proposing to abolish the cost benefits. You may call it populism, but if it is populism, please join us. Be populists too! We welcome you to the populist ranks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U148	Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U149	Mr President! I'm starting with a reminder of the 19th-century Russian cultural life. There was a very important social phenomenon there at the time, known as 'Kirjanik Kozla Prutkov'. His several centents and references have been known to date. One of them, which is relevant now, sounds like, "If you go to the zoo and you see the sign on the elephant's cage, don't believe your eyes. ' In Russian it sounds like this: ne ver glazam svoim. We now have exactly the same situation when an Estonian-speaking person reads that there are cost benefits in the Riigikogu. Everyone knows what the cost is. The meaning of compensation may not be known by everyone, but the word'reimbursement' came into Estonian as an expression for the international term 'compensation'. But in fact, under the leadership of our wise Riigikogu management, amounts that have not been paid for and there is no reason for them to be reimbursed to anyone. The entire Estonian people have been put in a position that they do not know what they have to believe, whether the sign is on the cage or their eyes when they see what kind of animal is in the cage. In the situation where we are now, cognitive dissonance has exceeded the limit of tolerance. In this way, we lose respect for the Estonian state and also the support of our voters. From the point of view of the Free Party, if there is such an alternative, whether the infinite horror continues, or whether it is possible to make a terrible end, then we are more in favour of a horrible end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U150	There's no more calls. The Steering Committee has proposed to reject the 90 draft at first reading. This proposal needs to be voted on. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 53 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the commission proposal, 15 against, no abstentions. The Governing Commission's proposal was supported and draft 90 has been rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U151	The next item is the third reading of the draft Act 61 amending the Act on persons repressed by occupation regimes initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law on Public Transport. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Kokk, please, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U152	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the Act on persons repressed by occupation regimes is to alleviate the injustice caused to persons illegally repressed by the countries that occupied Estonia from 16 June 1940 to 20 August 1991. Persons repressed by occupation regimes are persons imprisoned on account of beliefs, wealth, origin or religion, freedom fighters, deported children born in Siberia, working battalions, people placed in a psychiatric hospital, forest brothers and persons involved in the eradication of the consequences of the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power station. In support of the repression of health restoration support and the addition of driving benefits, the unnecessary bureaucracy involved in the presentation of tickets will be abolished. This has long been awaited by the repression. This is a small step towards reducing unnecessary bureaucracy, but an important decision for nearly 11300 people who have been repressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U153	There are no further requests to speak. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 61. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft Act 61 amending the Act on the Person Repressed by Occupational regimes initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law on Public Transport. Please take a stand and vote. There were 73 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the Bill 61 as a law, and there were no opposed or impartial parties. The Act amending the Act on persons repressed by occupation regimes and the Law on Public Transport has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U154	The third reading of the Bill of Amendment of the Structural Support Act 79, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins in 2014. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. I am voting on the draft law amending the Structural Support Act for the period 2014-2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic 79. Please take a stand and vote. There are 67 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting bill 79 as a law, no one opposed, with two abstentions. The law amending the Structural Support Act has been adopted for the period 2014 to 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U155	The second reading of the Bill 64 on Amendment to the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins. The Social Affairs Committee waitress is Monika Haukanõmm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U156	Mr President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Second reading is the draft law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors. I will give a brief overview of the procedure between the first and second readings of the leading Social Committee. I would remind you that the draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 16 July. The first reading took place on 30 September. It was decided that the deadline for tabling amendments would be 14 October. No amendments were tabled at that time. The Committee on Social Affairs prepared the second reading twice: on 19 October and 9 November. Ms Anna-Liisa Pääsukene, Adviser to the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, took part in both meetings. Some linguistic corrections have also been made to the draft. The Steering Committee made the following procedural proposals and decisions: The Social Affairs Committee decided to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 11 November, i.e. today, and to propose that the second reading be stopped. When the second reading is completed, we have a proposal to send the draft to the third reading and to put it to the final vote on 18 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U157	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The second reading of Bill 64 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U158	The second reading of Bill 74 of the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases initiated by the Government of the Republic and amending other laws begins. The Social Affairs Committee waitress is Vilja Savisaar-Toomas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U159	Mr. Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will tell you about the draft law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases and the amendment of other laws. I would remind you that the Government of the Republic initiated this draft on 18 August and the first reading took place on 30 September. The deadline for tabling amendments was 14 October and no amendments were tabled at that time. The Committee on Social Affairs prepared a second reading at its meeting on 19 October and 9 November. Martin Kadai, adviser to the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, took part in these meetings. The Commission decided to make four amendments. In short, I will present their content. With the first amendment, we will clarify the definition of health worker in the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases. For the purposes of the Health Services Organisation Act, a health professional is a doctor, dentist, nurse and midwife when they are registered with the Health Board. At the same time, health professionals are also pharmacists and pharmacists working in general pharmacies or hospital pharmacies within the meaning of the Pharmaceutical Act. However, since the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases deals primarily with the treatment of communicable diseases, we distinguish health care professionals defined by the Health Services Organisation Act from health care professionals defined by the Pharmaceutical Act. This is the content of the first amendment. The second amendment is a technical amendment to the standard by which we add points 15 and 16 to one point. This changes the numbering of the points of the law. The third amendment amends words in a particular paragraph. The words 'worker before taking up work' are replaced by'starter'. In short, this means that this law also amends the requirements for health surveillance of certain professions. It should be specified that a staff member must hold a medical certificate when he has already taken up his duties because he does not have an employment contract before taking up his duties and he is not yet an employee of that institution. As a result, when a person goes to work, he must have a medical certificate. This is in simple language the content of this amendment. The fourth amendment amends the entry into force provisions. The deadlines for entry into force are amended in three laws that we amend by this law. All these amendments were supported by consensus by the members of the Commission. The procedural decisions are as follows: We decided to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 11 November and we propose that the second reading be stopped. When the second reading is closed, we will have a proposal to put the draft to the final vote on 18 November, third reading. That's all I got. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U160	Questions for the waitress. Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U161	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, could you further clarify Amendment 4 concerning the dates of entry into force? What is the substantive justification for the postponement?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U162	The reason for this postponement is that it is necessary for IT developments, as we are introducing an electronic medical certificate. If we are to adopt it, we need to ensure that the Law on the control of animal diseases and the Food Law are in line with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U163	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U164	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm asking to reduce my stupidity. Are we currently dealing with the application of any European Union law? The second question, was this bill perfect, so you could deal with it very quickly and there wasn't much to discuss?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U165	Thank you for your question. No, it is not a law transposing the European Union directive and it is not a regulation of the European Union, it is a draft law of our own country, which changes the system of coercive diseases, namely cholera, fever and tuberculosis. If a person affected by such a disease refuses to undergo coercive treatment, the police will be given the right to seek out that person and to be subjected to coercive treatment. Secondly, we will give the family doctors an immunisation plan and make other minor improvements. These are simply organizational changes in our own health care. The second comment you made, I do not understand. What do you mean, we've been through so little of this? In the Committee on Social Affairs, we have, in our opinion, thoroughly examined this draft and have also tabled four amendments, as we felt that the first version of the draft law had shortcomings.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U166	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U167	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You mentioned the plague and the cholera. I ask you when the last time in Estonia is when people who suffer from plague or cholera are sometimes affected.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U168	Thank you for your question. I am pleased to say that we have not met them in Estonia for a long time. I really can't tell you when there was a cholera or a plague in Estonia last. However, this law also applies to TB patients, and the incidence of TB infection has unfortunately increased in recent years. So don't leave this disease out of here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U169	Thank you, Vilja Savisaar-Toomas! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Bill 74, second reading is complete. Sorry, it's not finished! I take it back. Indeed, there was no wish for negotiations, but the table of amendments has been examined. Let's go through it. Amendments 1, 2, 3 and 4. The second reading of Bill 74 is now complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U170	The second reading of Bill 63 of Amendment to the Medical Device Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The Social Affairs Committee waitress is Aivar Kokk. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U171	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the bill took place in this Chamber on 30 September. Amendments had to be tabled no later than 5.15 p.m. on 14 October. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups on the draft. At its meeting on 22 October and 4 November, the Committee on Social Affairs discussed the further procedure for the draft. The committee decided to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 11 November and to propose that the second reading be terminated. When the second reading is closed, the Commission proposes to send a draft to the plenary session of the Riigikogu for the third reading by 19 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U172	Thank you. There are no questions for the Commission rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Nor were there any amendments, so the second reading of draft 63 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U173	The second reading of the draft Act 77 amending the Hunting Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The rapporteur for the Environment Committee is Rainer Vakra. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U174	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 18 August 2015. The first reading was closed on 30 September and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 4 a.m. on 14 October. There were no amendments to the draft, but two amendments were finalised by the Committee on the Environment. Between first and second readings, the draft has been dealt with once at a meeting of the Commission. There was a discussion, where representatives of the Estonian Hunters' Society, the Estonian Private Forest Association, the Environmental Board, the Estonian Farmers' Confederation and the Estonian Farmers' Confederation, as well as representatives of the Ministry of the Environment and advisor to the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu from our own house, were invited. These two amendments were due to the idea that the draft would provide for temporary measures aimed at reducing the number of feral pigs in order to prevent the spread of African swine fever, but the right to limit the duration of the measures would be granted to the Environment Agency. On the basis of the amendment, the Environmental Board has the right to set a period within which wild boars may be released from motor vehicles, off-road vehicles, motor vehicles and off-road vehicles by other means and assisted by an artificial light source for the purpose of combating African swine fever. Amendment 2 states that the Environmental Board, on a proposal from the National Disease Control Commission, has the right to establish a period and an area within which and to which a hunter is obliged, on the basis of a valid hunting certificate, to grant free hunting permits in addition to hunting for small game also for feral pigs to the owner of land hunting on his immovable property. The Committee on the Environment also took procedural decisions. On 26 October, the Commission decided to put the draft on the agenda for a second reading by 11 November and proposed that the second reading be closed. When the second reading is completed, we have a proposal to send the draft to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U175	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Two amendments were tabled by the commission on draft 77, both of which have been taken into account. The amendments have been examined and the second reading of draft 77 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U176	The second reading of Bill 75 of the Waste Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws begins. The rapporteur for the Environment Committee is Rainer Vakra. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U177	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 18 August 2015. The first reading was closed on 30 September and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 4 a.m. on 14 October. There were no amendments to the draft, but the Committee on the Environment finalised three amendments. Between the first reading and the second reading, the draft has been dealt with once at the Commission meeting on 26 October. In addition to the members of the Commission, representatives of the Ministry of the Environment took part in the debate. Amendment 1 amends the title of the draft. Amendment 2 takes into account that the European Commission Delegated Directive adds four new phthalates to the list of prohibited substances in electrical and electronic equipment placed on the market in the European Economic Area. Amendment 3 states that, pursuant to § 5 to be included in the draft, the amendments to the Act will enter into force on 1 January 2016 and that the amendment provided for in § 1 (7) of the draft will only enter into force on 22 July 2019, in accordance with the European Union directives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U178	Questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U179	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I'm asking the same question I asked a little while ago. Is this the so-called application of the European Union Directive in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U180	Thank you, good questioner! It's true, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U181	Thank you, Rainer Vakra! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. For the 75th draft, the Committee on the Environment has tabled three amendments, all of which have been taken into account. The second reading of Bill 75 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U182	The first reading of the draft Act 65 on the amendment of the Accounting Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. The initiating waitress is Secretary of Finance Sven Sester. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U183	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Accounting Act and related amendments to other laws, which bears the number 65. This is the first reading of the draft. The aim of the draft is to modernise the legal framework of the accounting area and to bring it into line with European Union law. The draft concerns the simplification of the annual accounts of micro and small enterprises and the criteria for defining micro and small enterprises and medium and large enterprises. In addition, in order to reduce the administrative burden, it is planned to increase the limits on audit and review audit service obligations almost twice. The draft also removes the obligation for most of the state's accounting authorities, i.e. ministries, the State Chancellery, the Riigikogu, the President of the Republic and the Chancellor of Justice, and the Supreme Court to submit the annual report. The draft will help smaller companies in particular, while maintaining the quality of reporting. If the bill comes into force as a law, we will take a qualitative step forward in reducing the administrative burden. The draft allows a number of preferential regimes for micro- and small enterprises, with each individual undertaking being able to design the final and aggregate level of administrative burden by selecting both the report form and the information channel to be provided to the State, based on the economic activity and the specificity of the particular company. The draft applies both quantitative figures characterising economic activity as set out in the Accounting Directive and qualitative indicators characterising the public interest rate as criteria for the size categories of undertakings. Thus, a micro-company registered in Estonia is a company whose figures meet all the following conditions on the balance sheet date of the accounting year: total assets up to EUR 175000, liabilities not higher than equity, is not subject to VAT and there is one shareholder who is also a member of the management board. A small enterprise is a company registered in Estonia whose figures may exceed only one of the following conditions on the balance sheet date of the accounting year: total assets EUR 4 million, revenue from sales of EUR 8 million and average number of employees of 50 persons during the accounting year. Different public interest rates mean different reporting burdens. In order to reduce the administrative burden, the company can design its own final level of administrative burden by selecting appropriate reporting formats and a channel of information to the public sector. The publication of the financial information required by the report to consumers in the annual report is most effectively regulated by the market itself. According to the draft, the micro-enterprises have the possibility to submit an annual report consisting of a short balance sheet, a profit and loss account and up to three annexes. The micro-enterprises do not need to submit an activity report. A small enterprise may submit an annual report consisting of a long and detailed balance sheet, a profit and loss account, an annual report and up to nine annexes, the completion of which is compulsory only if the undertaking has such items and they are material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U184	Questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, The essence of this draft is certainly positive, but I note that it has been brought to the first reading as amended. The Committee on Economic Affairs has decided to exclude from the draft those paragraphs with which you wanted to amend the Income Tax Act and the Social Tax Act, but what should not be included in this context in any way. Here's my question to you. Why is the Government of the Republic and the Ministry of Finance still engaged in the so-called cluster billing before the Riigikogu? Having been a member of the Riigikogu for a long time, you should know as well as we do here that this is not a beautiful practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U186	Thank you. As you have mentioned, this was a very correct observation, and you are currently not seeing any draft legislation on a different subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U187	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U188	Thank you, manager. Minister of Finance! I will ask two specific questions. Estonian Air will receive EUR 6.2 million from the Government Reserve Fund. Is this money real and it doesn't need to be moved from anywhere? Secondly, EUR 14 million for local governments to fund private schools, is it still in the budget somewhere this year or next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U189	Thank you. It's a matter of...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U190	I have a procedural remark to make. We're talking about bill 65 right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U191	Thank you. I say to all members of the Riigikogu who, in the meantime, have been away from their desks that we are currently processing bill No 65, the draft law amending the Accounting Act and related amendments to other laws, which gives clear indications to improve the reporting of small and micro-enterprises. I would certainly advise the questioner to go deep into this, because this is a very sensible draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U192	Okay, now we all get the same idea. No further questions. The co-rapporteur of the Economic Commission is Maris Lauri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U193	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission dealt with the amendment of the Accounting Act and the related amendment of other laws in 65 two sessions. At the meeting on 12 October, the speaker explained to you that the Ministry of Finance had included provisions in the draft text that were not related to the content of the draft. In particular, §s 9 and 10 contain social and income tax issues. As a result of the discussion, the Commission considered that this was the remit of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and decided to refer the proposal to the Ministry of Finance, as the initiator of the draft draft, to exclude these amendments from the draft text before the first reading of the draft and to initiate a separate draft procedure in Parliament. It was also considered necessary to contact the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu with a proposal that it is possible to initiate a draft with such content in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. At its meeting on 19 October, the Minister of Finance gave an overview of the objectives and content of the draft. The Ministry of Finance agreed with the Commission's proposal to remove from the draft amendments to the Income Tax Act and the Social Tax Act and to find a second solution for these amendments. The debate in the Commission was brief. A question was asked which asked for clarification of the definition of the financial reporting standard in the draft. The representative of the Ministry explained that the financial reporting standard is part of a regulation approved by a ministerial decree. So there is a bill before you that has been amended before the first reading. In particular, paragraphs 9 and 10, which sought to amend the Income Tax Act and the Social Tax Act, have been deleted from the text in comparison with the original draft, and § 1 (7) of the draft, which supplements § 3 of the Accounting Act, have been improved in the definition of a large company. The correct amount should be 'total assets of EUR 20000000, revenue from sales of EUR 40000000', and in the original text the figures had changed. The following procedural decisions were taken at the meeting of the Commission on 19 October: First, it was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda as amended with the consent of the initiator, second, to propose the termination of the first reading of the draft and third, to propose a deadline of 19 November at 12 noon for the submission of amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U194	Thank you. Question. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U195	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Do you have any idea whether this bill requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U196	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U197	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The first reading of Bill 65 is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 12 noon on 19 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U198	The first reading of the draft Act amending the 2015 State Budget Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The initiating waitress is Secretary of Finance Sven Sester. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U199	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you the draft law amending the 2015 State Budget Act, which bears the number 120. Following a responsible fiscal policy, the Estonian Government refrains from making positive additional budgets. With the amendments before you, the total amount of expenditure and revenue of the state budget will not change, but will specify the expenditure of ministries and other bodies for the current year. In the same way, the state budget for the current year is usually changed every autumn. In making these amendments, we have based ourselves on the principle that public money must be used sensibly and purposefully. As this year's state budget has been drawn up last autumn and some funding needs have changed, it is appropriate to change the state budget in order to better meet the objectives set by the ministries. The changes before you are intended to use the resources released during the year due to changes in expenditure forecasts to address the country's pressing problems. State expenditure as a whole does not increase. Where, then, have we decided to direct the money? With these budgetary changes, the government wants to allocate EUR 3 million to relieve the difficult economic situation of dairy farmers and pigmeat producers, so that this money can be used before the end of the year. Resources for this purpose come from funds planned but not used for needs-based family benefits. This aid to milk producers and pigmeat producers is part of a larger package, for which the 2016 state budget envisages an additional EUR 4.6 million. This will be accompanied by exceptional assistance from the European Union, amounting to EUR 7.6 million. So farmers will receive EUR 15.2 million in crisis aid this year and next year. As another very important change, we want to focus resources on shortening rehabilitation queues and acquiring aids for disabled people. This is a big step towards shortening the queues. We also want to give EUR 2.34 million of funds planned for needs-based family benefits, but not used, for the purchase of prostheses and orthopaedic and other facilities for disabled persons, in order to improve the availability of aids. Within the area of the Ministry of Defence, it will be possible to acquire special equipment for defence purposes more than EUR 9 million more, by mobilising unused labour cost money and funds designed to invest in buildings and facilities, the disbursements of which are lagging behind the expected pace. According to the draft, investments in the Ministry of Defence's administration will decrease by 6.7 million euros. In the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, 6.77 million euros will be released from the funds for investments planned for the acquisition of ships for the joint project of state roads and small islands, which the government has devoted mainly to grants to Estonian Railways that develop infrastructure. Elron, which operates passenger transport, receives an additional EUR 2.25 million for the lease payments of trains. In the Courts' budget, EUR 1.72 million can now be used, arising from the unused resources of a more efficient justice project, the balance of the outstanding establishment payroll and the smaller indexation of judges' salaries compared to what was previously planned, including the development of the judicial and registry information system, such as the development of a digital file and a business register. The Estonian Maritime Museum receives 154600 euros to support the preservation of the medieval experience wreck. Looking by government area, the biggest reduction in government expenditure is 13.9 million euros, as the amount of income support and needs-based family benefits paid to municipalities through the Government Support Fund is less than we anticipated at the end of last year. The number of people in need of income support has decreased again. The biggest increase is the cost of the Ministry of Social Affairs' area of administration of €7.8 million. Another major increase in the budget of the Ministry of Rural Affairs is EUR 3 million for milk producers and pigmeat producers due to the allocation of crisis aid. The planned revenue for this year's state budget will be in the expected amount. Revenues have been received within nine months by EUR 5.9 billion, i.e. 69.8% of what was planned for the year. The costs have been made at the same time by EUR 5.98 billion, which is 69% of the year planned. The Ministry of Finance forecasts that the government budget for this year will remain nominally balanced. The structural surplus of the general government is forecast at 1% of Estonia's forecast GDP. Honourable Riigikogu! Estonia's monetary policy will continue to be conservative and we will not make an additional budget this year. The bill before you does not increase the cost of the state. By redeploying the funds planned for this year between the budget lines, we will support farmers in times of crisis and help people with disabilities to get rehabilitation and aids. We are also making a number of changes needed to make better use of public money in the fields of defence and justice and transport. As a result of a good tax collection, the general government budget will be in structural surplus by the end of 2015 and we will go to 2016 with public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U200	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U201	Thank you, manager. I hope now is the time to ask. Apparently hearing the minister's vote isn't enough to catch the right bill. Here's what I'm gonna ask. Three million euros will be allocated to farmers from the government reserve. This process of actually reaching the farmer takes a long time. Wouldn't the government be able to allocate money directly from its reserve to farmers? What difference does it make? If we were to separate it directly, we could begin to distribute it and support the farmers, which they are awfully looking forward to. Why does it have to go through the ministry, why can't the government do it directly?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U202	Thank you. The system of the Estonian state is that there are ministries in Estonia and all the money is moving through ministries, there is nothing strange about it. The money has been allocated as soon as you tap this bill in this hall with three readings. Let us do this quickly, then all the parties will be able to start using this money, farmers among others. The money is still going very directly, because as soon as the decision has been taken, this amount has been allocated immediately from the reserve to the Ministry of Rural Affairs and beyond, of course, to a specific beneficiary.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U203	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U204	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you another question. This EUR 14 million for local governments, which is a debt for financing private schools, should be paid out this year. Or is it next year? What about the money? It doesn't come directly from the Ministry's budget, I understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U205	This issue, which relates to possible judgments, was not addressed here at the moment. EUR 4.8 million is the balance of needs-based learning support, the overestimated funds are transferable and in 2016 money is also available and available in the reserve. For example, if, in September next year, there should be a situation that possible legislative changes do not reach the point where, from 1 September, the effects of the law will not be exhausted, then the reserve already has the money available for that purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U206	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. The Commission's waitress is Remo Holsmer. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U207	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We discussed the draft 120 at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 29 October. On behalf of the Ministry, Deputy Chancellor Kaie Koskaru delivered a presentation. The Minister already gave a very comprehensive overview of the contents of the draft. In fact, it is quite an annual practice that costs are increased during the current year, but no extra costs are incurred, so it is a zero-sum game. On the formal side, I say that according to the law, the Riigikogu can start to process budgetary changes up to two months before the end of the financial year, and later the law will not allow it. In this sense, everything has been done according to the procedure. In the Commission, we talked about the volume of changes, which is EUR 33 million and represents 0.38% of the budget. This is not an excessive volume, relatively normal one. The forecast of the support from the Ministry of Social Affairs, which was made for this year's budget, has now been substantially adjusted, and this is the opportunity to redeploy funds. As the Minister said, the draft is urgent in that agricultural subsidies, subsidies for the acquisition of prosthetic and disabled aids, different IT costs and Elron's additional support need to be paid out quickly. Consequently, the Committee on Monetary Affairs' proposal to deal with this draft at a slightly faster pace than usual. We unanimously adopted the decision to put the draft on the agenda for today and propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 10 a.m. on Monday 16 November. Please support the bill! If you have any questions, I'll answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U208	The questions to the Commission's rapporteur will not be asked because no one will ask them. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of bill 120 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 10 a.m. on 16 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U209	The first reading of the draft Act 112 on the amendment of the Family Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. The initiator's waitress is Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U210	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of this draft law is to transpose the so-called Rome III European Regulation on enhanced cooperation in the area of the law applicable to divorce and legal separation. The Republic of Estonia has not yet acceded to this regulation, although the Republic of Estonia has repeatedly expressed its willingness to do so in its European Union policy. It was initially joined by 14 Member States of the European Union, followed by two more. Following Parliament's approval of this law on how to apply this regulation, the enhanced cooperation format provides for the government to accede legally to this regulation. The law necessary for the implementation or enforcement of this regulation in the Estonian legal order has been planned to enter into force from 1 July 2016. The idea of the draft, or rather the idea of this Rome III regulation, is that the international element in family law is very large. People are nationals of one country or another, in many cases nationals of several European Union countries or also of third countries. They have entered into a marriage in good faith, hoping that it will last over time, but unfortunately life makes its corrections. A situation may arise where the moment of divorce, or the moment of divorce, comes when one spouse lives in one European Union country, another lives in another country or even outside the European Union. The aim of the regulation is to put the rules in place more smoothly so that the spouses have more opportunities and the situation is more legal. The application of the regulation gives spouses a new opportunity to conclude at any time in Estonian law an agreement or change of the law applicable to the conditions for divorce in a personal notarial form. The spouses shall be entitled to choose the law corresponding to one of the following conditions: the law of the State of common habitual residence at the time of conclusion of the agreement between the spouses, the law of the last common habitual residence of the spouses, provided that one of them still resides there at the time of conclusion of the agreement, the law of the country of nationality at the time of conclusion of the agreement between the spouses or the law of the country in which the marriage is divorced. When the bill is adopted as a law, there is a difference in the competence of divorce between civil status offices and notaries. Notaries still perform the duties of civil status offices in divorce with the differences laid down by law, but unlike in the past, notaries are given additional competences compared to civil status institutions. Notaries may also divorce under the Bill if there is a foreign element in the divorce, including where the divorce is subject to foreign law. At the same time, civil status institutions have the competence to divorce only if Estonian law applies. The draft sets out more clearly the general rules governing the determination of applicable law and the conclusion of an agreement in court proceedings. The law clearly states that the determination of the applicable law in court proceedings is one of the tasks of the preliminary procedure. It is also specified that an agreement on the applicable law can be concluded in court proceedings until the expiry of the prior procedure or the expiry of the time limit for the submission of applications by written procedure. The draft has been analysed and has been subject to a coordination procedure. To sum up, it should create additional legal protection in the Estonian legal order for Estonian citizens who move around the world and in the European Union space. I would like to ask for this draft to be discussed and supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U211	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U212	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, In the Committee on Legal Affairs, we had a small debate on how this law will lead to the divorce of different types of marriages or partnerships in Estonia abroad. I am thinking, for example, of the divorce of same-sex marriages, but also that there are countries where it is possible for a person to have several legal spouses, and we wondered how the separation of these couples or, what they were called, multiple combinations should be done in Estonia. Refugees may also create a situation where one man has several women and wants to separate them from all of them in Estonia. Is that possible under this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U213	Thank you. The general principle of Rome III is, figuratively speaking, that when a court applies foreign law, it is an "agent" in the application of that law. This does not mean that the law of the Estonian state lays down the same rules as those laid down, for example, in the formal requirements of marriage in a third country or in another Member State of the European Union. It is clear that there are certain fundamental constraints that must also be taken into account by the courts when dealing with these matters. The Estonian Family Act unambiguously determines that marriage is negligible if married persons of the same sex, and the Private International Law Act also determines that foreign law does not apply if application would lead to a result that is clearly contrary to the fundamental principles of Estonian law. In that case, Estonian law shall apply. The Rome III Regulation also derogates from Article 12. The general principle is that courts must apply the law of a State which, according to an international element, is to be applied in that Member State. There is one clear exception. The so-called forum court, the court in which a specific request has been made for divorce under the law of another State, may be refused if the application is manifestly contrary to the public policy of the State in which the court is situated. This public order is not understandable in the field of civil relations in the European Union in the same way as the public order which is enshrined in Estonian law, say, has no law enforcement meaning, but is a civil term within the meaning of 'good manners', as understood by the General Part of the Estonian Civil Code Act. So the summary is that in the case of so-called "multi-marriage," in this case it is a multi-wife situation, I believe that Article 12 of the regulation would not be applicable, nor would it apply to the marriage of persons of the same sex, but the person who applies it is specifically the court that makes the decision. Indeed, there may be a case in which the law of a third country is applied for in a Member State of the European Union, but it does not necessarily concern multiple marriages or the marriage of same-sex persons, but there are conditions in the law of that third country that are inherently contrary to public policy according to the Estonian legal order. In that case, the court shall have jurisdiction not to apply it. Such an extreme case that divorce proceedings could be contrary to public policy is, for example, the application of Sharia law, which does not provide adequate legal protection for one spouse, or woman.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U214	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U215	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You have just presented us with a brilliant presentation of how we are suffocating with legislation and the transposition of European Union directives. How many other directives of the European Union are in your drawer that will come before us this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U216	Thank you. One regulation is at issue in the debate on the next point when it comes to amending the Succession Act. But I think two things need to be distinguished here. One thing is the regulations that create administrative burdens in the Estonian legal order, so-called additional bureaucracy. Secondly, regulations aimed at better realising certain fundamental principles of the European Union, the logic of which is to make it clearer and safer for people to interact with each other, so that there are not too many restrictions resulting from conflicts of laws between different Member States. Right now, I think, this is the last option. The implementation of the Rome III Regulation does not lead to excessive costs or bureaucracy in the Estonian legal order. This regulation itself is a long and bureaucratic text, but the general principle is that if married persons want to divorce, they will have greater security in the sense that the law will apply. I think that some of the rules in Europe create more bureaucracy, but some allow people to better defend their rights. I think we're talking about a second block.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U217	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U218	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. Previously, it was about polygamy and same-sex marriages and the divorce of their marriages. But how is it possible for an Estonian citizen to marry an asylum seeker, according to the law, and is this bill something to do with this? Are these things, marriages with asylum seekers, a new trend?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U219	I can't tell if it's a new trend. It is clear that in one country or another, fictitious marriages have still been used to obtain the right of residence. Although I am not aware that this problem would have come up with excessive weight in Estonian legal practice, I think that Western European welfare countries with a longer experience in immigration have experience in this regard. Estonian family law also regulates what concerns fictitious marriages, and these regulations must then be applied. Of course, people have the right to marry under the law of their country and, if they have the real will to form a family, to the extent that it is in accordance with the general principles of family law in this Member State, specifically in Estonia, it must be based on it. Family law regulates how to deal with fictitious marriages. Since it also results in transfers to foreign law, they must be treated accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U220	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. President of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Heljo Pikhof, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U221	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared the first reading of the draft law amending the Family Act and related amendments to other laws on 26 October. Mr Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, and Mr Andra Salk, Adviser to the Department of Private Law of the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, took part in the meeting. The Minister of Justice explained that the draft amends the Family Law, the Notarial Law, the Notary Remuneration Act, the Civil Status Act, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Law of Proof to ensure the smooth implementation of the Council Regulation of the European Union, i.e. Rome III, which will apply to Estonia in the area of the law applicable to enhanced cooperation on divorce and legal separation. The draft relates to Estonia's intention to participate in enhanced cooperation in the area of the law applicable to divorce and legal separation. The Rome III Regulation harmonises the rules of law applicable to divorce and legal separation, gives spouses the option of choosing the law applicable to divorce or legal separation from among the limited criteria and sets out the rules of applicable law in the absence of an agreed choice of spouses. The Rome III Regulation is a missing link in the European Union's international family law. There is currently a European Union regulation called the Brussels IIa Regulation, which is responsible for regulating jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judicial decisions in family matters, including divorce. However, the harmonisation of the rules of jurisdiction at EU level alone does not ensure that family matters are resolved in the European Union in accordance with similar principles and that the results are uniformly predictable in each Member State. The inclusion of this link, i.e. the determination of the applicable law, is the purpose of the Rome III Regulation. Given that Rome III is a directly applicable European Union law, the proposed amendment is intended only to support the practical implementation of this regulation. This is the creation of better legal clarity in national law. At present, our notaries can divorce marriages concluded in Estonia and under Estonian law; in the future, notaries would also have the right to divorce marriages that have been concluded elsewhere, applying foreign law. Today 16 countries have decided to join this transnational cooperation. The Minister explained in the Commission that if the law to be applied under the agreement were contrary to the fundamental principles of family law in Estonia, this chosen legal regime would not be applicable in Estonia. As an example, the Minister pointed out that divorce under Islamic rules does not apply, because a woman does not have the opportunity to stand up for her rights. The Commission raised the question that, in the absence of an agreement between the parties on the law applicable to the divorce, which law would apply. The representatives of the Ministry explained that, in such cases, the current law provides alternatives under international legal aid agreements and the Private International Law Act. The Commission raised a number of questions. One question was already answered by the Minister here, namely whether the Rome III regulation requires divorce of same-sex couples in another country. The question also arose as to how information about the divorce in Estonia would reach the register of another country. There was also a wish to record precisely the deadline for submitting an application in the draft or explanatory memorandum in the written procedure. Following the Commission's discussion, the Commission decided unanimously to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by Wednesday 11 November 2015 and to propose to the Assembly to close the first reading of the draft. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 17 p.m. on 25 November and Heljo Pikhof was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U222	Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 112. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 112 amendments on 25 November at 5 p.m. We have discussed the 12th item.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U223	Let's go to the last item on agenda 13. The first reading of the Bill 113 of Amendment to the Succession Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws begins. The rapporteur is Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U224	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! This legislation also relates to one area of civil law, the aim of which is to create legal clarity and comfortable administration in the area of succession law through cooperation between the European Union. This is the implementation of the Regulation on succession of the European Union in the Estonian legal order. This regulation entered into force in August of this year, and in this international element it is already mandatory to comply with the Estonian legal order today. Implementation, however, requires legislative changes that have been prepared. We are asking for their enforcement, as a general rule, according to Parliament's procedural schedule. The aim of the regulation is to establish harmonised procedural rules for international successions across the European Union. It shall determine which law applies to the succession and in which Member State the matter must be resolved. Again, questions may arise here. If, for example, the deceased is a national of a Member State of the European Union who resides in another Member State and is passed on to persons residing in a third Member State or in the country where he or she has his or her nationality, the question arises as to what national law should apply. It gives a person who, for example, is an Estonian citizen, lives in Germany and wants to bequeath property to his or her children according to Estonian law, the right to do so in his or her will. In that case, the German court must apply Estonian law and these persons can inherit under that law. In addition, the Regulation simplifies the circulation of instruments of succession and, as a new document, establishes a European Certificate of Succession, which gives an additional opportunity for a person to prove his or her rights in another Member State. It's just in the interests of consumer friendliness. If, for example, a person becomes aware that his/her relative in Portugal has died regrettably, the official who deals with succession issues in Portugal will contact him/her and he/she will no longer have excessive obligations, such as the obligation to drive over Portugal and to deal with matters under Portuguese law, but will be able to use a European Certificate of Succession, which will make it easier to prove his/her succession rights in another Member State. For example, if the succession is processed in Estonia but some of the estate is located in Finland, the heir can use the European Certificate of Succession in Finland to prove his right. It is not a mandatory document, but it can be obtained if you wish, and it is reasonable to do so, of course, if an international element is present. You must contact the Estonian notary and receive proof that you are entitled to be a person. Notaries will also be given additional competence to resolve a cross-border succession. The general rule of succession is that the matter of succession must be settled in the country where the deceased was habitually resident. But there are exceptions. For example, in a situation where an Estonian citizen has lived in Sweden for the last few years, but in his will heirs have chosen Estonian law as the law applicable to their succession, the heirs in Estonia can agree among themselves that the matter of succession should be settled by the notary and in Estonia. In addition, the draft amends the regulation of our succession register concerning national law. The draft has gone through a coordination round. The draft so requires additional costs that technical developments need to be made in the succession register and in the e-notary database, but these will cover the House of Notaries, no immediate costs for the state from here. I think this is one example where European Union law, although complicated by its very nature, does not create additional bureaucracy, but enables the rights of a particular person, whether heir or heir, to be better realised on the basis of a person's choices. I would ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U225	Thank you. Minister, there are questions for you again. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U226	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. One question about pure curiosity, maybe I could've figured it out myself. Why has Britain, Ireland and Denmark not joined the harmonised procedural rules? Is there any way to explain this background?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U227	When transposing EU law, these three countries have the possibility of granting such an exemption. This was linked to the terms of the accession agreement with these countries. With regard to Great Britain, apart from the more general euroscepticism, Britain has one specific feature compared to the other Member States of the European Union. Their legal order has such an attitude that the decisions of these courts must take precedence. Therefore, all these regulations, we say, in the case of collective and inheritance proceedings, which restrict the rights of these courts, are not, in general, a hindrances to Britain when it comes to the European Union's policy. If an English court were to settle a matter under Estonian law, they would prefer to be more modest in these matters. In Ireland, too, there were probably strong motives in terms of their national legal order, but I have not looked into them in detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U228	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U229	Good manager! Good Minister of Justice! When I heard correctly, you said that it was already a law that came into force, and now it is necessary to adopt implementing acts. So is this the new so-called homosexual law that the previous formation adopted and which we now have to adopt?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U230	In Estonia, accession to the European Union's legal order takes place in such a way that matters are discussed in the ministerial working group, in the Council of Ministers, the Estonian state expresses its position by joining a legal act or not, and then this act will be dealt with in the European Parliament. Before that, the Riigikogu shall be authorised to join or not. If not, you cannot join or you must vote against. That is how it has happened in accordance with our country's own internal law, so we have transposed it into law. The right thing is that, on 17 August, an Estonian citizen is entitled to demand such opportunities on the basis of the so-called right of application. But the preparatory work at the Ministry of Justice also took its time, so we didn't want to do such a thing rashly. We also went through the public participation procedure. I do not deny that it would have been more formally impeccable if the law had been passed on 17 August. But we have to do it now. All I have to say is that the general rule must be this, I hope that we will be able to abide by it in the future, that things of European Union law will not linger, or that these processes could be parallel. It would make sense that, if we are aware of this, we will do it first and the provision of the European Union's legal order will come later. In the previous point, we addressed Rome III. That's where we want to do exactly that. We want to adopt the norm first, so that it is in place in the law of our country, and then we join the European Union's regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U231	Thank you. Minister, there are no further questions for you. Imre Sooääre, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U232	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed the draft on 113 Monday, 26 October. Triin Tõnisson, Minister of Justice and Adviser to the Department of Private Law of the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, were invited. The Minister of Justice explained to the Commission that in the case of Bill 113, this is a directly applicable regulation, the provisions of which do not need to be brought into Estonian law, but some changes to Estonian law are needed in order to implement the regulation. The Regulation establishes harmonised procedural rules at European Union level for the resolution of international succession disputes. As the Minister mentioned here, as a completely new institution, the regulation establishes a European Certificate of Succession to be recognised, enabling heirs and others who must exercise their legal status or exercise their rights as heir or legatee in another Member State to prove their rights. It also sets out the purpose of the succession register and the legal meaning of the succession register data, which means that, according to the succession register, there is only informational meaning. It also provides for the situations in which the registrar in Estonia is required to make entries in the Register of Succession and to issue data from Estonia. There are different institutions in different Member States; in Estonia it is the Chamber of Notaries. There was a debate within the Commission on whether regulation of the regulation could create a situation where so-called "inheritance refugees" are created, i.e. people who choose to accept the inheritance at a lower rate of inheritance tax or, indeed, the State without inheritance tax. The Minister of Justice explained that the applicable regulation should not affect the payment of inheritance taxes, nor does the draft contain changes to tax laws. However, the Minister admitted that an analogous situation could also arise in tax laws and other cross-border situations, when people are in any case entitled to choose the country in which they are able to deliver their affairs. It cannot be ruled out that someone is taking the way to Estonia in order to receive their inheritance here. However, the members of the committee found that it would only be profitable for Estonia if wealthy heirs or beneficiaries came to Estonia and that money would be put into circulation in Estonia. It would not be bad for Estonia itself, only good. It also discussed how the succession system in force in Estonia works and how the notary can get information about the heirs. Members of the Commission also had questions about the standards of competence of notaries. The draft provides notaries with additional competence to resolve a cross-border succession. As a general rule, the matter of succession must be settled in the country where the deceased was habitually resident. In addition, the Regulation provides for additional grounds. The circulation of instruments of succession will be facilitated by establishing uniform rules for the recognition, enforceability and enforcement of judgments and for the adoption and supplementing of authentic instruments and court settlements. The Commission also asked about the succession of pension shares and the corresponding deadlines. This was raised by Commissioner Ivanova. Since the ministry officials had to elaborate on this issue, we later received a comprehensive reply in writing from the Ministry of Justice, which I shall briefly refer to. Inheritance of mandatory pension fund units and use of inherited units is regulated in Section 5 of Chapter 2 of the Insurance Pensions Act. In the event of the death of the unit-holder, the units shall be transferred to the heir who has the right to transfer or redeem the inherited shares to his pension account. The registrar shall revoke the shares included in the estate on his own initiative if, after 10 years of the opening of the estate, the units have not been withdrawn or entered in the pension account of the heir. Thus, this part of the current regulation will not be amended by Bill 113 and the current regime will remain in force. The subject raised by my colleague, Urve Tiidus, when he asked the Minister a question was also briefly discussed in the Commission. The Ministry submitted the draft to the Estonian Bar Association, the Association of Estonian Lawyers, the Association of Estonian Judges, the Chamber of Notaries, the Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu, the Institute of Law of the Tallinn University of Technology, the Tallinn University Law Academy, the Supreme Court, the Tallinn Circuit Court, the Tartu Circuit Court, the Harju County Court, the Pärnu County Court, the Tartu County Court and the Viru County Court. The Supreme Court, the Tartu County Court and the Chamber of Notaries submitted their comments and suggestions. They were taken into account in the preparation of the draft. That was the end of the debate. The Commission took four decisions. We have a proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 11 November, secondly, we propose that the first reading be closed, thirdly, we propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 25 November, and fourthly, we have decided to appoint a rapporteur here. All Commission decisions were taken in a consensual manner. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-11_U233	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 113. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 113 amendments on 25 November at 5 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session of the Riigikogu is closed. Have a nice trip home! See you tomorrow morning! Closure of the sitting at 4.23 p.m.
