ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! There are currently 34 members of the Riigikogu in Question Time, no 67. The members of the government who participate in Question Time are Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of the Environment Mati Raidma and Minister of Education and Science Jevgeni Ossinovski. Six members of the Riigikogu have registered as a questioner, and I will give you two additional questions for each point.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U2	Priit Toobal's the first one to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Much has been said about the internal elections of the Reform Party in the media before. Kristiina Ojuland first took up this topic, Margus Jaanson has spoken about it in the last two weeks, and in yesterday's Eesti Päevaleht your former partymate Leino Mägi writes: "The internal elections will be conducted electronically. Lists can be circled as they see fit, because no one knows how many votes he got. What Kristiina Ojuland did was a routine in the party. " Counterfeiting has been total. According to Mägi, the party leaders decided who would get how many votes, and the IT guy moved them as much as needed. It could be said that this is an internal matter for the party, how the list of elections to Parliament is put together, but since the new composition of Parliament is also dependent on it, it is certainly an important issue. Since the Daily Paper has not asked you for a comment, I will give you a good opportunity to respond to Leino Mägi's article on yesterday's Daysheet within two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U4	Well, I don't have to go along with throwing dirt. We have people who sense that they've gone bad in their lives, and they're blaming someone else for it, enough already. I've never misjudged Leino Mountain. Yes, I noticed that when he was excluded from the Riigikogu in the previous elections, his attitude changed somewhat, but I do not want to stop at it for a long time. The specific nature of the Reform Party compared to all other parties is that we are having internal elections. By the way, the results of these internal elections are completely public, the members of the party know who got the number of votes. This internal election procedure has been in place, I'm saying now, at least ten years, maybe even more. The system is simple and transparent and understandable to everyone. It's a matter of taste, isn't it? I know that your party has chosen a completely different path and there is only one criterion for liking a certain man by which your electoral list is put together. I believe that the organisation of our internal elections is, in any case, more democratic. If you ask my opinion, I recommend it to the other parties. But you make up your own mind. Of course, as long as you have this one man in charge, I don't think you'll have any internal democracy in mind. Keep trying to be as loyal as possible, and then you'll be fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U5	Honourable ambassadors! The President has such a request that you formulate your questions primarily based on the fact that this is a Question Hour of the Government of the Republic in the Riigikogu. Thank you. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! The next question relates specifically to the Prime Minister and the candidate for Prime Minister. In the same article of Eesti Päevaleht Leino Mägi says that in the Reform Party all matters will be decided by the back room, not by the party chairman candidate for Prime Minister. The same thing has been pointed out by the newspaper Äripäev. Sven Mikser, Chairman of your coalition partner's Social Democratic Party, has also written to members of his party that he does not rule out that the garment is not informed of all squirrel backroom decisions. I think it would have been fair of the Reform Party to appoint the real leader of the party as a candidate for prime minister. Why did your party not appoint the real leader of the party as a candidate for Prime Minister, and how has it happened that the Prime Minister will not even be informed of the decisions taken in the back room?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U7	Is the situation really now that we have to explain something to the middle party and tell them how democracy has to work? That's a pretty nice paradox. The governing bodies of the Reform Party are all exclusively elected in a democratic manner. I went through the gauntlet of the elections, first running for the party's board, then passed the gauntlet of the elections, running for the chairman of the party. I haven't had the feeling for a moment that there's another me inside me or behind me or next to me, or that there's another me coming to meet me, who was like me. Well, like in the Alpinist Hotel of Death. The fact that some of our competitors or other people who are unable to hold a substantive debate sometimes go personal and try to find some conspiracy theories instead of having a substantive debate is their choice. Everyone has to choose their own tactics. My recommendation to all political forces, including our competitors and even the Centre Party, is that we try to remain dignified in all debates and not lose our heads. We try to focus on content, not sputter personal insults!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U8	Honourable Riigikogu! The optimism of the manager that a member of the Riigikogu is able to formulate his or her questions professionally begins to decrease somewhat. I would remind you once again that this is a government briefing. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Leino Mägi writes in this same article of Eesti Päevaleht: 'The money was certainly distributed. A businessman brings money and says he doesn't want his name published. Here's so much for you and your own business of legalizing it. Maybe some businessmen have benefits. Some do so simply because they are familiar with politicians. But for example, waste companies and those that are directly dependent on changes in legislation do so for a specific purpose. ' It's in yesterday's paper. Today's Estonian Ekspress writes how the former Minister of Environment, Pentus-Rosimannus, who is a member of the Reform Party, makes favourable legislative proposals for waste companies and makes favourable decisions for them. Is that true, and if so, how much has your managed Reform Party made favourable decisions for waste companies and received corrupt money for it? Or is it just the back room and you've been kept out of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U10	I understand that this particular person expelled from the Reform Party is somehow very close to your heart. For God's sake, take him to the Centre Party and we will go on with this subject transparently and clearly! The issue of the landfill economy is, in my opinion, much more serious. In order for whatever decision has to be taken, very strong lobby groups are needed who are ready and able to deal with this issue convincingly in the media. I think it's even clear on the hedgehog. What the Estonian Ekspress is accusing the Reform Party of the article is written in the blaming key, as if something had been wronged, is written in both the IRL and the Sots programme, as far as I know. You don't dare say anything about the Centre Party program. But this is something that obviously will not be changed during the composition of this Riigikogu. In the next Riigikogu, however, I think there is a reason to seriously discuss the whole issue and to think about whether to do it this way or this way. It must be taken into account that either way, there are always companies for which one or the other is less favourable, and these companies are ready to overwhelm the decision-makers. God with him! It is always up to the Heads of State to decide whether or not to decide anything at all, to postpone all the issues, to try to get nowhere at all. But I guess then the country won't go any further. As far as this particular issue is concerned, it does not seem that this debate can be completed in Parliament during this term. We can probably continue to discuss what is right in the next Riigikogu formations.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U11	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U12	Thank you. Prime Minister! You called on parties to communicate with each other with dignity. At the same time, I found your own speech extremely unworthy, as the boys on the street talk to each other. I would remind you: Speaking of Estonia's largest party, you said to replace the man you have in front of you. How do you take this arrogance to view one of Estonia's most popular parties in this way? You are the Prime Minister and answer serious questions in front of the hall. I'm amazed at where this arrogance? Come in, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U13	It's incredible how often you get my words wrong. Dear Ambassador Heimar Lenk, I have not said to replace Edgar Savisaar or this one man. I am not so naive for a long time now that I believe that internal democracy can be changed in the Centre Party, that such a change is possible in the Centre Party. Therefore, I have also said quite unambiguously that as long as the Centre Party is as it is, as long as the Centre Party is led by Edgar Savisaar, as long as the leading members of the Centre Party make, for example, yesterday in TV3, statements that are unambiguously identical to those of the Putin regime, I do not see any reason to cooperate with this party. I'm afraid that's the situation. Unfortunately, I have no such naivety in me for a long time now that I believe that the Centre Party is capable of change, that it is possible to change leadership in the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U14	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U15	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! You've already made it three times in government briefing to accuse the Central Party of throwing dirt on you. Soppa has not been thrown by the Centre Party, but by the Estonian Päevaleht and Estonian Ekspress. Right now, obviously, television viewers watching live broadcasts are looking forward to you wiping out this mess. But the question is, businessmen haven't seen anything with money like they've been supporting anybody, have they? If it was Meikar's scandal, it was the mother-in-law's fault, the mother-in-laws were like carrying money together. We have seen that politicians' mother-in-laws, for some reason, are getting rich very quickly. Now are the mother-in-laws coming into the game and going to help you financially?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U16	I shall take a questionable look at the President of the sitting. Since this question, too, is absolutely not about the work of the Prime Minister and can be seen in all his embarrassment as a rhetorical question, can I, Mr President, not answer it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U17	It's up to the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U18	In that case, I will not answer it, and I hope that you will still be able to ask some more substantive questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U19	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U20	The next answer is Minister of the Environment Mati Raidma and the question is asked by Erki Nool. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U21	Thank you, Head of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister of the Environment, Yesterday was the Waste Day at the Art Museum, where you performed and praised the planned waste law. At the same time, the negative assessments of the Estonian Association of Cities, local governments and others of this law are known. The biggest mistake can be considered to be that no studies or impact analyses have been submitted to this bill. Changing waste management is a very important change that should be fully justified and its impact on the environment and people analysed. Why is it not in the explanatory memorandum or anywhere else?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U22	Thank you very much. Indeed, the draft Waste Act has gained popularity in recent days. But I will correct your claim. I did not endorse it, but explained the content of the draft Waste Act. There are two main challenges. One concerns the waste market. The Competition Authority has also repeatedly stressed the need to open up this market. Another, perhaps even more serious challenge from the point of view of the Ministry of the Environment, is how to proceed with the development of separate collection. We're stuck in this job. The new possibility of simply dumping mixed municipal waste into a boiler is so tempting that we have not been able to move forward with this process. These challenges have been addressed in the draft. I would point out that this bill is in the preparatory phase. Some impact assessments have been carried out, some are definitely still coming. Views and opinions have been published between ministries. This is an ongoing process, and I promise you, here we will not allow any haste. This is an area in which all of us who produce garbage, both local authorities, entrepreneurs and the whole population, hope that a fully-weighted decision will be taken. I am sure that the new Riigikogu, elected on 1 March, will take this issue on the table, debate it, and we will finally get a pretty good law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U23	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I will take this opportunity to ask you about the story of today's Estonian Express, where it is claimed that the Reform Party has been in office at different times depending on the Minister, then Jaanus Tamkivi or Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, or you have been in the middle of a different garbage policy. It is claimed that at least during his term of office, Pentus-Rosimannus made favourable decisions for certain waste companies and issued certain legislative proposals that would benefit them. Has the Estonian Express lied in this story and harmed the Reform Party and one of its vice-chairmen?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U25	Thank you very much. This article also focuses on the subject of open competition, i.e. the possibility for the garbage holder to choose the garbage manager. On the one hand, I am pleased to note that three of the four political parties represented in this Chamber have recorded this in writing on their electoral platform. They support free competition and the possibility for the garbage holder to choose the garbage collector. I'm happy for that. That is the answer to the criticism that the paper contained a bit of a one-sided one. I've already reminded the Competition Authority. On the other hand, I do not believe that we have such an impact on our partner parties. In fact, the subject has received majority support in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U26	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U27	Thank you. Dear Minister, Currently, all waste holders have automatically joined an organised waste shipment. But in an open market, how can we guarantee that all people will join the waste shipment system and how can medium-sized municipalities, for example, control it? I believe that the city of Tallinn could be the most capable, but I doubt that the city of Tallinn will be able to control it. And in the case of an open market, is there no risk that prices will be significantly higher than those currently under way for waste shipments?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U28	Indeed, it is an entire complex of questions. In addition to the above, I would still highlight one of our main tasks, which is for some reason not to be focused on, i.e. the need to collect waste by type. One of the pillars of this goal is awareness, but there is no incentive to sort garbage at home by type. I can't imagine a real solution to the way this garbage collected from different species is being transported from behind my garden to different species. There is a need for developments here for all parties involved. This is the only process we can use to reduce mixed municipal waste. This task could also be the focus of the next Riigikogu when these debates reach the committees and this hall. However, as far as the voluntary nature and obligation are concerned, the current version of the draft retains the obligation and the freedom to choose has been added.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U29	Erki Arrow, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U30	Thank you. I come to the research of the Sustainable Estonian Institute, which was commissioned by the Ministry in connection with this bill. Since this research made a relatively destructive assessment of the draft, I wonder if the Ministry is planning to order new studies until the draft is declared suitable. And yet again, I ask you about the possible increase in prices that are important to people. One phenomenon is the town of Rakvere, which had so far failed to deal with the waste shipment. Now there will be a waste shipment there, and people will get three times cheaper. What is the guarantee that the price will remain unchanged or will increase marginally with the amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U31	As far as research is concerned, of course the Ministry can order more research. Having worked in this Chamber for eight years, I know that the Commission can also commission studies. The government does not adopt laws, the law is passed by the Riigikogu. By the end of the day, it is here that a deliberate decision can be made, no matter how many studies have been carried out. A specific study criticised that there would be more garbage trucks in the free market, but no other issue had been resolved. I come back to the main problem, i.e. small-scale collection. If we start collecting from home by type, then it also means the need for extra cars. Otherwise, the criticism, which from time to time is still heard, will not stop, that the various boxes will eventually be emptied into one barrel. The increase in the share of transport and logistics in this first stage of development is obviously inevitable. But how much does it affect the environment? After all, separate collection reduces the amount of waste material in the oven. These are large-scale issues that need negotiation and analysis. This study is certainly important and one of those in this debate is basic material.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U32	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You will probably agree that there has been a major step forward in the waste management over these years and that things have been much better regulated than they have been a few years ago. As we know, we have made commitments to the European Union, including you mentioned collection by species here. I ask you how you assess our waste management when you compare it with other countries as far as things are concerned. How far or how high are we now in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U34	I guess we have focused on progress and development, but I think we are more committed to achieving our own cleaner living environment than Europe's goals. It must be said that, if you look at Brussels, we really have room for improvement in achieving the objectives of separate collection. But I'll come back to the basic truth in this whole area. There is a hierarchy of what to do with the garbage, and the lowest level is landfill. We're over that problem. Society has evolved and reached recovery, with incineration at the lowest level. The next level of recovery is already specific by type of recycling and production of something. I'm afraid we haven't even gotten to that yet. That is why it is a call for separate collection, which I have spoken about here several times. Of course, at the top of this chain is the reduction of the total amount of waste. Is it really worth producing so much? There is already a great deal of emphasis on awareness. The current call is still to move forward with the collection by species. To do this, we need to change the motivations, we need to look at the prices of waste. For example, sorted trash could be at least half cheaper than mixed trash put in one box. It would give people the motivation to choose such a waste collection method. These changes will be difficult and awareness alone will not be enough to move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U35	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U36	The next question is for Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U37	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. At the moment, there are very many homes that have to be said that more than 10,000 homes have had a discussion about the child's going to school next year. Sadly, many of these parents are concerned because their children may need support to keep up with others in the first year of their regular class. In fact, there is a serious problem that very many schools do not have support teachers, there are no special pedagogies, there are no logos. Despite four years of discussions, we have not been able to offer any solutions to the support structures after the government's exchange. Do you have any consolation for these parents today? Where can they turn, and what support and from whom can they receive?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U38	The issue of children with special needs is certainly one of the most important issues of education policy. This has been the case for many years, and the issue is certainly of increasing importance, given both the increase in the number of children with special educational needs and the European principle that we have also implemented under the name of inclusive education. There is a growing perception that children with special needs could, if possible, take maximum part in regular training, that we would not segregregate them into separate classes. It is true, of course, that the implementation of this concept requires proper support systems. It is somewhat strange to me that the previous government at the same time approved the concept of teaching children with special educational needs, which provided that more children with special needs should be in regular schools, while at the same time the issue of public funding for support professionals remained totally unresolved. I don't think those two decisions match each other. At the same time, in the existing legal area, the schoolkeeper is still obliged to provide support specialists at each school and for each child. This obligation exists, the parent has the right to demand it. If the school does not offer these services, you can contact the Ministry of Education and Research. We can clarify the situation and help in this situation. It is also well known that from 1 September last year the country has implemented the Pathfinder Centres system. These are 16 centres all over Estonia, which offer guidance to schools and, in more complex cases, direct counselling to children.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U39	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U40	Thank you, Mr President. If we've already come to the Pathfinder, I'm sure you've had a chance to get feedback from the schools. It's been months. I've had that chance, too. Quite a few smaller schools have said that the Pathfinder is too expensive for them. Secondly, there are complaints about precepts. Instead of getting help, they have received a series of precepts in the tone of 'do, go, arrange'. Some teachers have the impression that another supervisory authority has been set up, not support. Perhaps you dare comment on that here? But the question I have is: what amendments to the basic school and upper secondary school law do you really need to have support structures? The fact that local authorities do and do do do not help. The real situation is that a parent takes a child with special needs to school without even a proper diagnosis, because we do not have a medical system that would give it. And there's a parent in front of a pretty broken trough.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U41	A lot of questions! But I will repeat the message to the parents that basically the school must provide this service. If this is not guaranteed, you can contact the Ministry of Education and Research, we will solve the problem. As far as the Pathfinder centers are concerned, this system is still in operation. There are different internships, and in some places it has worked very well. Recently, I visited the Viljandi Pathfinder Centre, where a very grateful job was done after Viljandi's school shooting. Indeed, the whole system works very well there, schools get help. The staff of the Pathfinder Centre go to schools to work with teams, etc. At the same time, there is indeed concern in many parts about the difficulty of finding the necessary specialists to work at the Pathfinder Centre. There are not many of them to take in Estonia. As regards the amendment of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, this issue needs to be resolved. But not in this way, let's say, in the sense of making a bird, that we are giving, like, some sort of opportunity to use some kind of money to fund support professionals. That won't solve the problem. In the past, we have had debates about whether this would help if, for example, EUR 3 million were given to the municipality to provide support services. However, that would not solve the problem. At present, local governments pay around 20 million euros to support specialists over Estonia, but this means in very many places that these specialists actually receive a ridiculously small salary. If we want to reward this work so that these specialists receive a decent salary, the cost to the state budget will certainly be over EUR 30 million. Personally, I think that the state should take this responsibility and, like teachers' salaries, allocate appropriate support to local authorities. However, this is the decision of the next Riigikogu and government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U42	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. A short time ago, some reform parties, such as some of the principals of the school, as well as the Director of the Institute of the Estonian Language Sutrop, called you a Russian because of the education policy you drive. On Monday, I asked the Prime Minister who answered the question how he felt about it. He said he didn't like tagging like that, but he didn't deny it either. Do you understand why your coalition partner thinks you're a Russian?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U44	Well, the assessments these individuals have made are their own business. All sorts of things are being done to get attention during the election campaign, and there are often a lot of rhetorical winches. At the same time, it is an interesting fact that the working group I convened, which analysed the situation in Russian-speaking upper secondary schools last spring, was the director of the Kiviõli School, who did not sign this request. I think he knows better what the situation really is in these schools. But as for the plan itself, the situation is interesting. On the one hand, we see signs of russification, on the other hand, but Mr Stalnukhin said here on Monday that I want to massacre Russian schools, because my plan is to increase the level of Estonian proficiency in Russian schools. In fact, the demand for schools should be increased. We must finally tackle this issue and achieve real knowledge of the Estonian language. The current situation is that after a thousand hours of Estonian language in primary school, one third of graduates do not even achieve B1 level, which is such a satisfactory level. But in three thirds of Russian primary schools, more than half of the children do not reach this level. So it can be said that the large amount of education that takes place in primary schools does not produce the expected result. If those children who do not speak the Estonian language on an adequate level reach the upper secondary school, where there are not many teachers who are able to teach properly in Estonian, it is quite difficult to name all this in order to give education. Consequently, my proposals have been made. There is a need to increase the demand for Estonian language skills, to check that the required level of Estonian language proficiency has been achieved, and to provide for specific measures with a total volume of 11 million euros until 2020. Finally, this task must be done. However, all Estonian schoolchildren must learn the Estonian language by the end of the school.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U45	Mailis Reps, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U46	Thank you, Mr President. 1 March is not only the election day, but also the date when several local governments decide to close the school. It is quite sad to see that there are quite a few schools in small rural municipalities and elsewhere across Estonia that are connected, though they are simply closed. Many of these schools are really small and some are quite large. Unfortunately, one of them is a state school, which you yourself have closed in Põltsamaa. But my question is fundamental. In fact, the state with its own money can very much influence whether a school can survive, whether it can or cannot cope with it. It's not just a local government decision. This is partly due to public policy. What is your direction towards smaller schools? For example, is a basic school with 60 children entitled to live or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U47	Of course, access to education is one of the important values, but if we look at both the demographic situation in Estonia and our population density, it is costly to guarantee its value. There's nothing to do. This is our country and society, that we have many small settlements. Of course, however, no one's educational opportunities should be limited simply because he lives somewhere away from the big city. As far as basic school is concerned, I think that all parties represented in the Riigikogu have, among other things, been familiar with your party's programme, and there is a consensus in this respect that the basic school close to home must be maintained. Even on Ruhnu Island, where there are ten students, there is a elementary school close to home. The number of students increased from seven to ten just a few years ago. Of course, children must be educated at basic school near home. Another story is upper secondary school and vocational education opportunities, i.e. post-secondary education. Indeed, it is clear that in Taebla, for example, where Haapsalun is only 10 kilometres, a decent road and proper transport, children have no problem attending the state gymnasium in Haapsalu. But if we're talking about other places, like Vändra or Avinurme, where it's a long way to the county center, then, of course, the calculation is very different. Of course, these municipalities work with the country to provide upper secondary school education on the ground for as long as possible. As you know, from this year on, we have given funds to those municipalities where there is a small upper secondary school, to raise teachers' salaries by 10%, so that they can guarantee quality education.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U48	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I was gonna ask you if there's gonna be bloodshed or if there's not gonna be high school. We had some very heated debates here on Monday. You were compared to the previous Minister of Education and it was said that the previous Minister of Education is like a white dove and your falcon. Although bloodshed was done before in order to repair the sick body, it is not recommended and certainly will not come. But here's what I'm asking you. Very many schools in Estonia have special status, and many such schools have begun the so-called reform The status of such a school is also Vastseliina boarding school. What do you say to this school? The initiatives of the previous Minister for Education have been abandoned and it is unclear what will happen to this school, which will become of the students. What can I say to teachers?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U50	As far as bloodshed is concerned, I don't think it's a proper expression. If our overall social objective here in Estonia is clearly that all graduates, regardless of their mother tongue and also the language of instruction, can be made clear on the good level of the Estonian language, this must also be achieved. Of course, this cannot be achieved tomorrow, nor can it be achieved next year, but we must finally tackle this issue. We need to redefine the methodology from kindergarten, review the syllabus and provide all the necessary support from the state so that the Estonian language level will be at most B2 by the end of primary school. If the measures that I have proposed, as I said, are not enough for a total of 10 measures with a total volume of EUR 11 million up to 2020, then, for God's sake, all the opinions that can still be made to improve this situation are very welcome. As for Vastseliina School, it's connected to Kaagvere and Tapa School. We are now considering what type of institution is basically concerned. As you know, both Tapa's school and Kaagvere are undergoing major restructuring. The old special pedagogy model has been replaced by a more modern approach that will enable these children to be better raised in order for them to become members of a proper society. On the issue of Vastseliina School, we have met the local government several times and discussed ways in which the situation can be resolved in the future. The representatives of the local government are of the opinion that connecting the school with Kaagvere School is reasonable in itself, but the question is what will become of the large, beautiful study building that is currently in use. We have been looking for ways for the state to support the creation of a new social and perhaps less negative institution there. I am thinking specifically of the health sector. I think these discussions will go on. Hopefully, a solution will be found that takes account of the interests of current workers. Perhaps they can find a new job at Kaagvere's joint school or at this new social welfare institution and get used up as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U51	I would ask the ministers to respond within two minutes. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U52	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U53	Thank you. Prime Minister! After the adoption of the 2015 state budget, the Ministry of Education announced that it had unexpectedly found EUR 2.8 million for extra school lunches, and the Minister of Education and Research announced that the government's aim is to guarantee free school lunches for every gymnasist in cooperation with municipalities. Thus the Ministry of Education decided to compensate for the cost of a school lunch up to EUR 1.36 as the holder of public schools, which is the average cost of a school lunch in the state school. But it's only for gymnasts, not for students in vocational schools. My question is that the majority of vocational schools belong to the state, the state is their keeper, so what is the difference in treatment in vocational schools and upper secondary schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U54	First, a few details. The extension of the school food allowance to upper secondary school level certainly did not come after the adoption of the state budget. On the contrary, it was one of the punks that was agreed and recorded in the coalition agreement. The amount was EUR 3.2 million. This was one of the issues that led the opposition to scold us last spring and said that under no circumstances will the budget be balanced if, on the one hand, we lower taxes and, on the other, we increase child support and also pay more children school lunch grant. After all, we know, of course, that the 2014 budget reached a surplus, so that everyone can now assess how right or wrong these intimidations were, that the budget is about to collapse. As regards the cost of school lunch in state secondary schools, it is true that the Minister of Education found a way to support it. In the case of vocational education and training institutions, however, it must be taken into account that there are also those in vocational schools where they cook themselves and where the cost of a school lunch is therefore cheaper. As far as I know, the main reason is that. But, of course, you will be able to ask for specific details in a few more briefings, hopefully, from the Minister of Education and Research, who will certainly be very detailed in his administration and will be able to respond better to you. I don't have to be his caller. In conclusion, however, we have had a school lunch plan in common, and I think it is a good plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U55	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U56	In November 2014 OÜ Elektrilevi announced that this is already the question that the time limit for the connection will be 1072 days, i.e. three years. There are two ministers in this ministry, please tell me what's going on! Three years! And the location is 30 kilometers from Pärnu, not in Uugametsa! A company that is also built up with European money. What's going on?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U57	Thank you. Unfortunately, you didn't answer my question. Once again, this additional money was found after the adoption of the state budget. The life of students in vocational schools is certainly more expensive. They also have transport costs and dormitory costs because they live away from their families. It is certainly unfair treatment to allocate 78 euro cents to them for catering, with the school manager being the majority of the country, and I think it is reasonable to change the government's policy in this respect. Continue to deal with this and consult with the Minister of Education. But I have another question. NGO Kalatex has built a building for the port property in Liu village in Audru municipality with a European grant. In 2011, the association started to apply for an increase in electricity interconnection capacity through Distribution Network OÜ. I'm not going to describe the intervening events, but in the meantime it's become OÜ Elektrilevi and the original 540-day electricity connection deadline has been extended to 730 days.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U58	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U59	I looked here at the title of the question you prepared, you wanted to ask about government policy. If you look very creatively, maybe even find a common part between this very detailed issue and government policy. I don't think the ministers really are the people who're gonna cut electrical connections and open shields at the port building in Audru municipality. But if you're talking about more than three years of time, then for more than two years of that, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications was your party partner and fellow fighter Juhan Parts. It's possible that he can tell us more about the bottlenecks that delay electrical connections. At the same time, leaving aside the details of this port house in Audru municipality, which I really must admit, I do not know, because you did not give any hints about it when you headlined your question, it is important, as a general principle, that electricity connections can be made faster in Estonia. There are different international indices to compare different countries, including how easy it is to do business in one country or another. Although Estonia has only recently received information from the Heritage Foundation that we are the eighth most important economic freedom in the world and the first in the European Union, one of these aspects, which has also been revealed in these indices and has pulled us backwards or prevented us from rising, is precisely because it is not possible to get an electricity connection when a company is set up or a building is set up. The subject itself is therefore serious. But I think you can get a detailed answer on this particular subject from your party partner, Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U60	And now you're gonna have to ask your second supplementary question in one minute, Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U61	I did not get a good answer and the extension took place in November last year, when the new government had been in office for almost a year. I don't think the Minister's gonna drink up some kind of wire search there, but the whole arrangement is about the government's work. However, my question is as follows. I listened to your discussion with my so-called political family associates and also with the Centre Party, and I remembered that in 2005 the Andrus Ansip government gave citizenship to Yana Toom, on the proposal of Edgar Savisaar, for special services. Yana Toom and Andrus Ansip now represent Estonia in a united political family in Europe and do business there. I do not understand which party, however, represents this classic liberal world view in Estonia. As a voter, I need a electoral compass before the election. Is this the Reform Party or the Centre Party? Can you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U62	I fully understand your embarrassment and your attempt to find a right-wing alternative with the help of the electoral compass. I, too, have noticed that your party has shifted away from the right side and there are others in your party looking for a right-wing alternative. I am bold to say that the clearly right-wing liberal party is only one Estonian Reform Party in Estonia. The Centre Party, which, for some incomprehensible reasons, has been raging internationally as a member of the Liberals Party, even though the Reform Party opposed it, still uses liberalism as a word of nationalism. Looking at their rhetoric, neither personal freedom nor, for example, liberal economic policy is a word in their programme. When we look at the Estonian ambassadors in the European Parliament, Urmas Paet and Kaja Kallas are very clearly opposed to Yana Toom. He's the second extreme in terms of positions. I hope that this electoral compass will help you make a balanced choice. And for those in Estonia who think what should be done to prevent the Centre Party from winning the elections and turning Estonia off the course that has brought Estonia success so far, taking the country to the left of the trench, my recommendation is to choose the Estonian Reform Party. I recommend this to you and to all those people in Estonia who are still hesitating about what should be done. This is the only way to be sure that Estonia will continue to succeed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U63	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U64	Thank you. Prime Minister! My question concerns specially labelled fuel oil and your answer here in the remote two weeks ago. I quote you: 'This statement that this change also concerns kindergartens and schools is not accurate. I would ask you to fill yourself in more detail on this matter. ' Mr. Prime Minister, you were wrong! The draft law submitted by the government is very much about kindergartens and schools and other public buildings. That is exactly what it said in the explanatory memorandum to the draft proposed by the government. For example, in Raplamaa alone, where I asked about it, 23 public buildings affect libraries, nursing homes, as well as six kindergartens and schools. There is now another amendment to this law in the Riigikogu, but nothing is essentially improved, precisely because of the unwillingness of the coalition. Last time, you expressed your personal position in this Chamber, but you are still on this board as Prime Minister of the Republic. Has the Government, for example, proposed to the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu to abolish the absurd requirement of the law that the fuel balance must be measured and then the difference in excise duty paid or the fuel disposed of? Can't consumers at least take good advantage of existing residues? In this regard, you thought last time that such a solution would make perfect sense. Why hasn't the coalition proposed this reasonable solution so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U65	Honourable questioner! I am pleased to announce that the government has proposed this. There was a long discussion at the previous government meeting on how to allow all owners of private houses, as well as housing associations, to make the most of this fuel and not to play with any kind of pumping and measurement. As I told you last time, I am sticking to the fact that, in my opinion, this would mean unreasonable inconvenience for home users, and that is certainly not what we want. As for heating problems in Raplamaa, for example, your municipality of residence has just established a new coal-fired boilerhouse, which is certainly much more effective than oil-powered. In the same area, the construction of a boiler house is currently also considered by a very well-known woodworking company, which produces a lot of chips as a production residue, and the same company has also provided chips for other boiler houses in Rapla County and ensured that it is possible to obtain the cheapest possible energy on site. I think this is the direction to which not only Raplamaa but the whole of Estonia should go. An alternative must be sought for this very, very expensive diesel oil, which pollutes a lot of the environment. Cooking with wood chips, especially in cogeneration plants, is a much more advantageous and more reasonable solution, both in Raplamaa and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U66	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U67	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! I'm asking about the government's very failed policy. I have asked you and several ministers here in briefing or questioning why Estonia is the only country that does not use top-up. Therefore, the Estonian farmer has been placed in a very unequal situation. We have enough money for start-ups and start-ups, but we don't have enough for real producers. The consequence is that by the end of this year, the Estonian dairy herd may be reduced by about 8 000 cows and 1000 people may be unemployed. Is this your government's conscious policy? And if so, are you ashamed of the farmers?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U68	I have recently met both dairy producers and poultry and other meat producers. We have discussed what their biggest problem is and how the government can help them. This aid is not necessarily an additional payment per hectare, as it does not necessarily meet the needs of dairy farmers. The stories are not so simple that every dairy farmer has the same size in order to feed his cows. It may not be that way. A more substantive approach is therefore needed. I have no doubt that the Minister of Agriculture, Ivari Padar, has done so, and I, too, within my time limit. What, then, are the wishes that the entrepreneurs have presented to me? Firstly, the greatest desire is that the European Union's action, all the instruments that we have planned and believe, these funds are not limited to the minimum, can be mobilised as soon as possible. In this direction, the government has already taken steps to really help businesses survive the current crisis. Another thing that entrepreneurs expect, and which even helps a great deal, is helping to break doors to foreign markets by the power of the state, where Estonian entrepreneurs have not so far pursued. It will, of course, take time, but if it succeeds, then success and profit will be very high. At the same time, I cannot agree with the start-ups, or start-ups, that sounded about you. This has also been done a little while ago by a person aspiring to the Riigikogu. I think it's inappropriate because start-ups give a lot of people a job, with a very decent salary. No company deserves that one member of the Riigikogu patronizes them like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U69	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U70	Now there is so much time that Aivar Kokk can ask one question and Evgeni Ossinovski can give one answer. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U71	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I will then try to put two questions into question. What happened to your ministry and you? If you go to Luua and talk about the merger between Palamuse School and Luua Tech, then you say yes, this merger could be, but the next day, there will be a message from the Ministry that there will be no merger. It will be a week, you will gather a small group and announce that in Põltsamaa a vocational school should be closed, although yes, according to the papers it is a merger with Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre. But it's two counties! When they're connected, it's like you can do it inside a county. Why are you trying to put a foot in Jõgeva County education?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U72	As far as Luua is concerned, according to the law, this type of interaction is in principle possible. The question is to what extent this is appropriate in each particular school. In the case of Põltsamaa school, it is certainly not a sudden decision or a decision made in the private office. As you know very well, since spring, I have been trying to reach a compromise with the city of Põltsamaa and the municipality of Põltsamaa in order to increase the interaction between the Põltsamaa school and the vocational school. This failed, the city of Põltsamaa decided to continue with an independent upper secondary school. So they have a high school with 12 grades. Consequently, and given the number of students' forecasts, it was reasonable to decide to merge Põltsamaa Vocational School and Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre. Resources need to be used more efficiently. This unification has now taken place, as agreed in spring. It has been approved by both the county government and the municipality of Põltsamaa. Of course, if we had a better demographic situation, the prospects for Põltsamaa school would certainly be much more positive. However, the number of students has fallen very strongly, as much as 35%, and in such a situation we simply need to look for synergies. I think it is reasonable that, given the opportunities offered by Särevere, Paide and Põltsamaa, we try to find solutions to teach young people more effectively from September this year, so that everyone is well educated and, at the same time, we use public funds efficiently.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U73	Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U74	Honourable Riigikogu! Relax, there's not much left! Slow down, keep your voices down! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Do you know if anyone else has a wish to hand over any drafts or inquiries? No, it's not. We're gonna do a presence check. 76 members of the Riigikogu are present, 25 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U75	Let's go to today's agenda. First of all, members of the Riigikogu Aivar Rosenberg, Aivar Sõerdi, Andre Sepa, Arto Aasa, Etti Kagarov, Heljo Pikhofi, Igor Gräzini, Imre Sooääre, Indrek Saare, Jaak Allik, Jaanus Tamkivi, Jüri Jaansoni, Jüri Morozov, Kalev Kallemets, Kalev Kotkase, Kalev Lillo, Kalle Jents, Kalle Palling, Kalvi Kõutli, Karel Rüütli, Kristen Michali, Laine Randjärve, Lauri Luige, Maim Bergi, Margus Hanson, Marianne Mikko, Mart Meri, Mati Raidma, Meelis Mälbergi, Peep Aru, Rait Marustuse, Rein Randver, Tarmo Leinatamme, Tõi, Tõi Tõi Tõi Tõi Tõi, the third drafts of the Constitutional elections of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia, Tõri Rõimber, Tõri. The rapporteur is Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's and future voters on the balconies! Allow me briefly to present the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which decided to send the draft to the third reading. This meeting was held on 19 January. a. The first reading of the draft law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia 703 took place on 16 September last year and was completed. The second reading was held on 18 December last year, it was also closed and after the second reading the deadline was set for the amendments. a 5 January at 4 p.m. No amendments were received within the deadline. According to § 163 (2) of the Constitution, the difference between the second and third readings of the draft law amending the Constitution must be at least one month; this condition is met. When sending a third reading, it had to be decided whether the way to change the constitution would be a referendum, an urgent vote in the Riigikogu or a vote in two successive Riigikogu formations. The explanatory memorandum to the original text of the draft law states that the initiators prefer the option of amending the Constitution by two successive formations of the Riigikogu. Thus, the XII Riigikogu elected in 2011 will be able to decide for the first time before the end of the mandate, and the XIII Riigikogu elected on 1 March 2015 will be able to make a decision after its membership. The speaker explained to the members of the Commission that the initiators of the amendment of the Constitution saw, at the beginning, the decision of two successive formations as a way of amending the Constitution. At this rate and with this knowledge, the draft has been dealt with. The initiators see no reason to change their minds. Member of the Commission Tarmo Tamm asked whether it was possible to change the way the constitution was amended at all. The speaker explained that the initiators had made their proposal and that this had to be decided by the Commission. As no one wanted to speak more and no one wanted to explain anything, the chairman of the committee, or here the initiators of the draft proposal, put the Constitution to the vote in favour of the two successive formations of the Riigikogu, and the committee agreed unanimously. Mr Parts asked whether the initiators considered different ways of amending the constitution. The speaker explained that this was a matter of discussion, but the initiators quite unanimously found that the two successive formations of the Riigikogu should do so. Thus, the way in which the Constitution was amended was not an issue of dispute. This problem is neither urgent nor general public, so it makes sense to move forward step by step. The Commission took the following procedural decisions: Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 11 February. a, it was a consensual decision. Secondly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposed to amend the Constitution in accordance with subsections 163 (1) (2) and 165 of the Constitution by the two successive compositions of the Riigikogu. That too was a unanimous decision. Thirdly, it was decided to propose to the plenary that the draft be put to the final vote, which was also a unanimous decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U77	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Kristen Michal, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Happy young people and young people from the soul! We have before us today a draft amendment to the Constitution. In order for the change to enter into force, two successive compositions of the Riigikogu must make such a decision. The amendment of the Constitution must not be taken lightly, nor must it be an object of day-to-day policy. As has been said, in order for it to enter into force, we must make a decision today and those who receive a mandate from the Estonian people must do so after the March elections. It is quite symbolic that the same idea of giving young people the opportunity to decide more is carried through at least two coalitions. The 2011 Coalition Agreement between the IRL and the Reform Party provided for more rights for young people: we are launching a public debate on how it would be reasonable to take into account children and young people in elections in order to maintain a stable balance in society, and we are launching a debate on the 16-year reduction of the election age. As a result, a debate began at government level and with civil society. Here were good partners from Tallinn University in transporting Anu Toots, Estonian Youth Associations, many other youth organisations, politicians and experts from the Ministry of Justice, for example. On 23 April 2012, we had a meeting with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs where we discussed the possibility of lowering the elections. There were several options: lowering the overall elections, lowering the elections in local elections or not doing so at all. A few years later, on 1 July last year, 41 members of the Riigikogu Reform Party and the Social Democrats Group initiated a draft in order to lower the age of active voting rights, i.e. to give the right to vote in municipal elections to persons aged 16 or over. And here we are. Who is affected by this, and why should elections be changed in local elections? Could it affect the election results? A proper analysis by Anu Toots and the team of Tallinn University shows that this change concerns 24000 young people of the order of magnitude, with about 2% of the total number of voters. The analysis also shows that young people's priorities for election are spread from right to left, from liberality to conservativeness, as in society as a whole. In the case of young people, it can be pointed out positively that these are curious voters, those who bother to look at the candidate's website and examine the views of the party. It gives the knowledge that the idea that young people can be fooled in any way is not adequate. The Kalvi Tõvi, who handed over the draft on behalf of the initiators, mentioned the main reason for the initiation: the aim is to give young people a greater chance to shape their own neighbourhood. It probably makes sense that young people themselves are involved in deciding what the youth environment is like, not in the virtual world, but in the real world. Young people are the ones who work the most in the area and why not listen to them and act together. It's a little bizarre that other people have to guess exactly what interests young people. It's a simpler way to figure this out together. Today's draft is also the preferred policy option as a result of the analysis. It is good legislation, the law is preceded by analysis and it is also sufficient time to think it through. You can say that about this bill. Is Estonia unique here? Not exactly. The election will take place in the municipal council elections of 16 years of age in Austria, Malta, Germany in the elections of different Länder, Switzerland in local elections, as well as in Hungary under certain conditions, and will also be tried in the local elections of Norway. To conclude, this is a long and publicly discussed idea. It has become a bill, ideas have been considered in analysis, and it has not been done lightly. And in Estonia's history, it is not a precedent; the elections in the Estonian Congress elections were also at least 16 years. Today's young people consider this to be necessary; youth organisations are a revolutionary change. The analysis supports the choice, so let's make history! On behalf of the Reform Party, we support the amendment so that local elections can be elected from the age of 16. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U79	On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group Kalvi Tough, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U80	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I have planned to give a longer speech in the next composition, and now I will be brief. The Social Democrats are confident that our programme position to lower the elections to local governments is justified and society is ripe for this. Believe me, it gives a lot not only to young people, but it gives a lot to society as a whole. We know that our society as a whole is ageing and by 2020 the proportion of retirement age exceeds the proportion of young people by 7.7%. The need to balance the influence of age groups in the electorate is thus increasing. I have heard of the fear that lowering the age of choice will lead to a coup ball in the political landscape. However, election simulations show that young people's party preferences are similar to those of the current electorate. The popularity of extremist parties or candidates among young people is not expected to increase. Good friends! I think, I believe, and I know that young people expect this law. I think, believe and know that society needs this law. But I know for sure that the Social Democratic Party Group will support this bill in today's vote. You guys, back me up! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U81	On behalf of the Group of the Liisa-Ly Pakosta Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U82	Thank you. Today is undoubtedly an important day. So let us prove that we, as grown-ups here, can be responsible. After all, we are actually discussing what a sense of responsibility means and to whom and to what extent to trust responsibility. I would like to begin by pointing out that the Child Protection Act that has been in force for a long time provides that in absolutely all matters concerning children, children themselves must always be heard regardless of whether the child is younger or older than 16 years of age. How well has the current adults been able to actually comply with this point of the Child Protection Act and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child? If we look back in history, maybe today isn't very revolutionary. In Estonia there was over 600 years of Lübeck law, according to which women grew up at the age of 12 and men at the age of 18. So if we look at this long tradition, we still have a long way to go. All right, well, of course the vote was a little different back then, but the picture wasn't as black as we imagined the Middle Ages. As a ethnologist at the University of Tartu, I have to admit that all civilizations have their own rituals for adulthood. Let us agree that this ritual in Estonia is not about buying alcohol and this ritual in Estonia is not about abortion. Choosing is quite a good way to do it. But what does the responsibility that adult people sitting in the Riigikogu assume today mean? In fact, this also means responsibility for making more room for discussion and in-depth discussion in school curricula. We value more the teaching of doubt and hesitation! This also means more emphasis on parental education and more support for parents so that they have more time to discuss social matters with their descendants. Today's decision, I hope that it will be positive, in fact, means calling on both schools and all parents to pay significantly more attention in everyday life and in teaching so that young people can ask, want to ask and do not lose their will. Many times it has been questioned whether young people can be sufficiently responsible. I'm not going to make comparisons here with adults. But everyone who has been to schools in Estonia knows that the picture is generally very positive. For example, a student representation in the first to fourth grade of Mammaste Elementary School is one of the coolest student representations I've ever met. I repeat once again: it was a first-to-fourth-grade student representation! The maturity of young people by both sides of the next Riigikogu is very much worth discussing. With our laws, we have come to a situation where, on the one hand, we are faced with love and cramp and, on the other, with a trusting attitude toward young people. In all of this, the balance has long gone wrong and it is certainly worth reviewing the situation where a 17-year-old may be in the unemployment fund, but at the same time he is not even entrusted with the purchase of a single share without the permission of the court. Or the situation where the same 17-year-old person can choose and choose to decide, for example, what happens to the Tallinn Water stock package, but at the same time we don't trust him to mow the lawn because he's not supposed to work with moving mechanisms. The Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance trust people. In assessing the maturity of young people in our general situation, we consider it necessary to ask and discuss all these questions, together with young people, of course. I would like to thank the previous speaker for reminding me that this promise has also been in the programme of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. In addition, there is also a discussion in our programme about how electoral rights and representation in elections can really reach every person in Estonia. Thank you for your attention and I wish all young people every success.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U83	I'm closing the negotiations. No proposals were received to amend bill 703. The commission has proposed to amend the Constitution in accordance with § 163 (1) (2) and § 165 of the Constitution by two successive formations of the Riigikogu and also to hold a final vote on the draft 703. That's what we're gonna do. Honourable Riigikogu, since the draft requires a majority of the votes of the members for adoption, please let us do the verification of our presence. 70 members of the Riigikogu are present, 31 is missing. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the draft law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia to reduce the election age of the local government council elections 703. Please take a stand and vote. There were 62 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting bill 703, 4 against and no abstentions. [[Let's hear it.]] It's early. I haven't hit you with a hammer. The Act has received the support of the XII Riigikogu and is submitted for adoption to the XIII Riigikogu. Now! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U84	Our next item is the third reading of the draft National Defence Act 772 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Riisalu, please! All assumed to be a happy member of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U85	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, we are expected to adopt a national defence law. National defence is an area in Estonia that is wonderfully cross-political, there is a consensus between all political parties on these issues. Times are anxious about what's happening around us. What is happening not very far from us in Ukraine seems unreasonable in the 21st century. At the same time, the blood shed in these battles tells us clearly that a nation that wants to be free, independent, to have territorial integrity, to have its own country cannot compromise national defence. Estonia has done exceptionally well on this issue. Our defense is great. The National Defence Act was dealt with quite effectively in Parliament's practice, quite quickly. The original version of the National Defence Act was processed in almost half a year. This draft law on national defence took a first step towards bringing together all the areas that the country has to manage during the crisis. Of course, this law is not made of stone. I hope that, as a country and also as a Parliament, whoever is in the next composition, we will continue this practice and complement this law, because there are still a number of things that would also require regulation. One clear area that should be rewritten is the law on state-defence requisitions. Interesting times are coming to Estonian national defence in political terms, as quite a number of national defence experts will be nominated for the Riigikogu in the forthcoming parliamentary elections. I wish them success and hope that some of those who have been in the highest management of Estonian national defence will be elected. At the same time, I would like to call on them to be reasonable. Our national defence is currently determined by the younger generation of the government and the younger defence ministers, Urmas Reinsalu and Sven Mikser, have established a ten-year development plan for national defence in cooperation with the relatively young Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces, Riho Terras, who has recently been promoted as lieutenant general. Today's school and the old school, as far as I know as a member of the long-term National Defence Commission, disagree on some issues. I hope that the high-level experts who will coordinate national defence in the next Riigikogu will find their inner manhood in the Code of National Defence without making any cardinal changes. I think we've done a good job in defense. As Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Commission, I believe this is my last speech here. I would therefore like to thank all the parties who have given the opportunity to build Estonia and Estonia's national defence, as we currently have. There's nothing to be ashamed of. For this reason, all of you, ladies and gentlemen, have a deep bow! Long live Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U86	Lauri Laasi, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't really agree with Riisalu here. Why? I'll tell you in a minute. The draft National Defence Act comes to the final vote with almost non-existent contributions from the Riigikogu and more or less in the way that the Ministry officials wrote it together and sent it to the ambassadors. The Centre Party proposed a very fundamental amendment to the draft. This was about ending the possible martial law only when all of Estonia is once again independent and the enemy has been expelled from the country. This change would have ensured that Estonia could not repeat the year 1939. For some reason, this proposal was not suitable for the Reform Party and the Socialists. If we go back in history, it's not surprising in the case of sots, but the Reform Party, along with Kerd and Laaneots, would have expected greater determination. By rejecting this proposal, the Reform Party has shown that it is prepared to compromise on the territorial integrity of Estonia, as long as the IMF considers Estonia to be eligible as a non-warrior state. Our proposal was in line with the Constitution that Estonia's independence and independence are timeless and inalienable. The objective of the Centre Party was to provide the operational content and certainty set out in the Constitution that we will never give up on any strong aggressor and always fight to the end. As a member of the National Defence Commission for eight years, I was used to meaningful, multi-party management and inclusive management. Mati Raidma broke the drafts from the Ministry into pieces, corrected the errors and put it back together as best for the people of Estonia, the state and national defence. For him, the result was important and therefore he did not make a distinction as to whether it was a coalition or an opposition proposal. The current coalition, however, is kulping the officials of the Ministry and the substantive debate around this draft did not arise. In the light of all of the above, the Centre Party considers that it is better to maintain the current national defence regime, but it is not worth adopting a poor law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U88	Marianne Mikko, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on our draft national defence law is taking place at a time when security is fragile, not to say, the security situation is harsh. This is true in Europe, where there is Ukraine, as in the rest of the world where ISIS operates. The law, which we hope will be sealed by consensus today, is fully in line with the security situation that has developed. We call things right: we are in a situation where there is not a real war in Europe, but a real war. Right, we do not have a war in Estonia. However, this does not mean that we have no experience to learn from. This law has taken into account the 2008 war in Georgia, as well as the military activities in Eastern Ukraine in 2014 and this year, 2015. Our April 2007 experiences have been written between the lines of this law. As is the fact that we are a fully-fledged, leading NATO Member State. We have a clear understanding of the operation of Article 5 theoretically, as well as the assurance that the principle of 'one for all, all for one' will be practically triggered if necessary. The draft is based on the principles of a broad approach to national defence established by the National Defence Strategy, which has become viable three years ago. The black white states how exactly the defence of the Republic of Estonia works in a crisis situation. The key words of the National Defence Act are speed and efficiency. National defence is managed by the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic in peace and war times, according to the bill. One might ask whether we are thereby tossing the role of Parliament, we, the Riigikogu. I answer with peace of mind: yes, in certain situations speed is first and foremost important. According to the draft National Defence Act, the use of the reserve army becomes flexible, while the draft law deals with mobilisation. The creation of additional opportunities for additional training gatherings deserves recognition. The draft offers the Defence League the opportunity to make a flexible contribution to the protection of the Estonian state, as it complements the Defence Union Act. The draft National Defence Act has been the subject of social attention, and rightly so. Almost 100 amendments and opinions were accepted by 4 and 31 amendments were accepted by the National Defence Committee. At this point, I object to the previous speaker, who complained that someone was rolled over or taken into account. The Commission was in a constructive mood, and we individually considered all the amendments and opinions. I consider it important to stress the amendments made by the National Defence Committee to the text of the draft law concerning the competence of the Riigikogu in sending the Defence Forces to missions, wearing uniforms of the Defence Forces and the release of a person working in a defence official or workplace from compulsory employment. It is also important that the draft law on national defence was in a constructive form, i.e. that large words and slogans were filtered out. It is also necessary to fully agree that the draft law on national defence excluded those amendments which would require the amendment of the Constitution. For example, the proposal that the Government of the Republic could have declared martial law did not take into account. What do you say in summary? You must be proud that the Riigikogu, which immediately resigns, will adopt such a fundamental law, fully respecting the security context of today. If, a year ago, some politicians had doubts and doubts as to whether we can really make it, whether there is still enough political will, we can announce to the people of Estonia today, on 11 February 2015: we did it, together and in agreement! The Social Democrats support the adoption of the draft National Defence Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U90	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U91	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This law is certainly no less weighty than the last draft approved here, with applause, which amends the Constitution. This fills a very important legal gap in our defence. At present, national defence is, in principle, fragmented in terms of law between peacetime, wartime and international cooperation, which is actually the same thing, especially in NATO's circumstances, but even more so in the circumstances that Estonia and Europe as a whole have reached with their security situation. We're actually part of a hybrid war. We have been part of this since the events of April 2007. Today, however, we are part of it through our neighbours, and we must always understand that conventional warfare is no longer what gives us power over countries. I have had a very proud feeling about carrying out this bill here in the Riigikogu and it has been a very good feeling for the cooperation that has dominated this law. The National Defence Committee is wonderful in that, indeed, almost without a vote, the wordings will be agreed. It is also important for me to mention this because the time of the Minister of Defence in 2005-2007 was radically different. At that time, it was not just a matter of internal disputes, but of the fact that the institutions did not work together as well; the supreme leader of national defence, the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces did not work together. There was essentially political competition in which, unfortunately, political parties were involved with their manipulations, and as a result, for example, the law on the organisation of the Defence Forces was blocked, which the Constitution calls for. Its adoption at the time was impossible for political reasons and a strong counter-lobby. The situation changed in the second half of 2006 when the institutions started working together when people and attitudes changed. So the recent defence ministers have been in resort conditions compared to what was then. There were also differences of opinion in this Chamber today. I will not join those who claim that there is consensus in our defence. It is not in the basics, there is no attitude towards Russia, but there are no smaller things, as has been shown when we talk about this bill. The Centre Party is different. Fortunately, it's only about the law. There is no distinction between other parties. To the Centre Party, in response to the criticism, I must say that there is no need to write declarations. His great loyalty to the Republic of Estonia and national defence must be confirmed by practical acts and speeches. First of all, however, it is necessary to reach consensus in our political party on what this independence is and who is threatening our independence. We don't need hollow declarations. We need political parties in practice to care about national defence and national sovereignty. But once again, thank you to those who contributed in goodwill and spirit to the birth of this law! All in all, there's a good memory and an important trace of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U92	I'm closing the negotiations. The National Defence Committee has proposed to put the draft to a final vote on 772. Honourable Riigikogu, Bill 772 requires a majority of the voting rights for adoption. Please, let's do the presence check! 66 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; 35 are missing. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft National Defence Act 772 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There were 67 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting bill 772, no one opposed, no abstentions. The National Defence Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U93	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Rail Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 806. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Rail Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 806. Please take a stand and vote. There were 63 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the bill 806 and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Law amending the Railway Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U94	Next is the third reading of the Act amending the General Part of the Environmental Code, the Forest Act and the Water Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed a final vote on the draft. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 771 amending the General Part of the Environmental Code, the Forest Act and the Water Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There were 65 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting bill 771; there was no one against it; one member was impartial. The Act amending the General Part of the Environmental Code Act, the Forest Act and the Water Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U95	Our next item is the third reading of the draft building code 555 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft building code 555 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There were 61 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft law 555 and there were no respondents or abstentions. The building code has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U96	Our next item is the third reading of the draft law amending traffic law and state fees law initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. I don't want to negotiate. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Traffic Act and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 779. Please take a stand and vote. There were 63 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft, no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Traffic Act and the State Fees Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U97	Our next item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Act on Support for Enterprise and Guarantee for Loans and the Estonian Development Fund Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Kalev Kallemets, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U98	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, During the second reading, unfortunately, very few delegates were present in the Chamber, and since I do not see a lot of blue pages on your tables at the moment, I will give you an overview of what this is about. By amending the Law on Enterprise Support and Guarantee of Loans, KredEx will be able to invest EUR 60 million in fund funds by 2020. The aim of the amendment of the Estonian Development Fund Act is to invest funds for investment in the development fund in the amount of 5 to 6 million euros in various business accelerators. Thus, in summary, this is one of the most tangible and real measures invigorating the Estonian economy, I think, one of the most effective measures that we have voted upon since the adoption of the e-residency law in this Chamber. So please support the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U99	There is no further wish for negotiation. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the draft be put to the final vote. This bill also requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu for adoption. Please, let's do the presence check! There are 61 members of the Riigikogu, no 40. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Act on Support for Enterprise and Guarantee for Loans and the Estonian Development Fund Act 787. Please take a stand and vote. There were 61 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 787 and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Act on Enterprise Support and Loan Guarantee and the Estonian Development Fund Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U100	Our next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Gambling Act, the Media Services Act and the Advertising Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Alliance of Isamaa and Res Publica.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U102	Quiet, please, so the waitress can report.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U103	The draft with the same content was also tried to bring it to the Riigikogu Hall a few years ago. It is the kind that frees the advertising of gambling, in particular so that Estonian Loto can expand its activities and collect more money both in his own purse and through it into the state budget. Years ago, however, when it was discussed, it was common ground that it was not right to allow wider advertising of gambling. This is not the right signal for society. Now, at third reading, we still have the same draft with the same content, and we know where it started. It started with the birth of a new coalition. It was noted in the Coalition Agreement that in order to fulfil the new promises, it is planned to receive an additional EUR 3 million in the state budget through the realisation of this law. Our questions, whether it's ethical or moral, were answered, yes, it's ethical, it's moral. The message that has been voiced here in reading this bill has been controversial and regrettable. The hall and remote control have claimed that we do not know if there will be more players at all. It has also been said that there is nothing wrong with gambling. It has even come to the logic that if we do more advertising on the lottery, then casino addicts start thinking about playing the lottery instead of going to the casino. Are these serious arguments? I think the ad signal that you play the lottery and try to get easy money, is not good news. It's not ethical. And worst of all, this bill: advertising is given free rein on the Internet, precisely in the channel that is most accessible to young people and which they use most. I accept that there are trimmings in this bill to correct the rules. But the goal that this bill reached on our desks is unacceptable because of the more lottery-playing desire to raise extra money for the state. I call for a vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U104	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I will close the negotiations and begin the preparation of the final vote on draft 747. I will put draft 747 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 48 delegates voted in favour, 15 against and no abstentions. The draft law amending the Gambling Act, the Media Services Act and the Advertising Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The eighth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U105	We will move on to the ninth item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Commercial Code and the Law of Property Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 785 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 54 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The draft law amending the Commercial Code and the Law of Property Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The ninth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U106	Let's move on to the tenth item on the agenda. This is, of course, the third reading of the Bill 736 on Amendment of the Weapons Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I do not want to, so we can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 736 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 1 against and no abstentions. The draft law amending the arms law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law. The 10th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U107	We will move on to item 11, which is the second reading of the draft Act on Denunization of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on the establishment of the Baltic Navy Division. I ask Kalmer Laini, Member of the National Defence Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U108	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 9 February and approved by consensus the text of the second reading and the explanatory memorandum. By the deadline for tabling amendments, i.e. a No amendments were tabled by 5.15 p.m. on 4 February. The text of the first reading was correct linguistically and technically, so the text of the second reading is identical to the text of the first reading. The purpose of the draft is to denounce the Treaty establishing the Baltic Navy Division ratified by the Riigikogu on 11 November 1998. At the same time, Estonia is also contributing to NATO's first permanent mine control unit, which is why it is not possible to contribute to our resources and priorities to the Baltic Navy Division. At the same time, cooperation between the maritime forces of the Baltic States continues. At its meeting on 15 January, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus that when the first reading of the draft was completed, it would be put on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading. a by 11 February. On 9 February, on the basis of § 115 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus at its meeting on 9 February to propose to the Riigikogu that the draft be put to a final vote at second reading and adopted as a law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U109	Good colleagues, any questions? No, it's not. Good waitress, thank you! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments have been tabled. The position of the commission is that the final vote on the draft should also be taken at second reading. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Good fellows, let's keep up the pace! We have two final votes, please take this into account. I will put draft 834 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The draft Act on denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on the establishment of the Baltic Navy Division has been adopted as a law. Today's 11th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U110	Let's move on to the Grand Duchy. The 12th item is the second reading of draft Act 819 on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion by means of income and capital taxes between the Republic of Estonia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic. I would like to ask Peeter Laurson, member of the Finance Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Here too, there is probably a final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Act 819 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the prevention of double taxation by means of taxes on income and capital, and the Protocol thereto, was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs in preparation for a second reading on 29 January. No proposals were submitted by 28 January of the deadline for submitting amendments. The draft did not require any linguistic and technical clarification, and the Commission made the following consensual decisions: to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu. a by 11 February, propose the completion of the second reading and a final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U112	Good colleagues, please ask questions. Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. The position of the commission at second reading is also to hold a final vote, but first we will examine the amendments. No proposals were received to amend the draft, so we can go to the final vote. I will put draft 819 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. With a convincing majority of 47 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents or impartial parties have been adopted by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia in the form of a draft Act 819 on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and avoidance of taxes on income and capital, initiated by the Republic of Estonia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Our 12th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U113	Let's move on! The 13th item is the second reading of the draft Act 832 on the ratification of the Amending Protocol to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Swiss Association Council on Income and Capital Taxation, signed on 11 June 2002, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia and the Swiss Association Council. Peeter Laurson, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, will present a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Double Taxation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Swiss Association Council on income and capital taxes, signed on 11 June 2002, prepared for the second reading in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, was held on 19 January. No amendments were tabled by 5.15 p.m. on 6 February. At its meeting on 9 February, the Committee on Finance decided to propose to the Assembly that the draft be put to the final vote. This was the Commission's consensual decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U115	Good colleagues don't have any questions. Good waitress, thank you! I understand there wasn't much to hear. In short, I repeat that the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed a draft of 832 and thought that this was the right decision. It was asked to take the hall to second reading and to put it to the final vote. Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. No amendments to draft 832 were received and we can go to the final vote. I will put draft 832 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 47 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The 832 bill has been passed as a law. Today's 13th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U116	We will move on to agenda item 14, the second reading of draft law 795 on creditors and intermediaries initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Rannar Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U117	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft is part of a package of so-called short-term credit problem-solving measures. The aim of the draft is to harmonise the requirements for financial market operators and to increase the liability of lenders and intermediaries for compliance with the requirements relating to their activities. To this end, requirements are introduced, in particular, for the activities of non-bank creditors and credit intermediaries by granting credit to private individuals. Among other things, it provides for the obligation to apply for authorisation and essentially brings together all creditors and credit intermediaries under the supervision of the Financial Supervision Authority. No proposals were received from the Riigikogu by the deadline for submitting amendments to the committee. Following the completion of the first reading, the Committee on Finance discussed the draft on 19 and 29 January and 9 February. The Commission, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, made 22 amendments to the draft, which are explained in detail in the list of amendments. Several changes have taken into account the proposals made by the Estonian Banking Association and the Estonian Association of Leising Associations during the procedure. The amendments were made in a consensual manner. The Commission's unanimous proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U118	Thank you, good waitress. Any questions? No, it's not. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We will begin the examination of the amendments to draft 795. 22 amendments have been received, all from the lead committee. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22. We have examined the amendments. The commission's proposal was to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the 14th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U119	Let's move on, the 15th item is the second reading of the draft law on the prevention and resolution of the financial crisis initiated by the Government of the Republic, 821. Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U120	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed a draft of 821 in preparation for the second reading. a meeting of 29 January and 9 and 10 and 11 February. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance also participated in the meetings. I would like to reiterate briefly that the aim of the draft is to provide for measures that, in particular in the public interest, can most effectively prevent the financial crisis or address it at the lowest possible cost for society, avoiding or minimizing the need to use public funds to restructure a bank that is in trouble. The deadline for submitting amendments by 28 January was received by the speaker. The Commission has decided to propose 15 amendments to the draft, a large part of which is the clarification of the transposition of the Directive. There was also a desire to make the decision-making of the administrative procedure of the crisis more broad in order to mitigate potential risks. I will now give an overview of the major changes. Amendment 1 clarifies the processing of plans for national authorities between the Financial Supervision Authority and the supervisory authorities or resolution authorities of other Member States. It was somewhat erroneously stipulated in the draft that the Financial Supervision Authority should comply with the decisions taken by the authorities of other countries. The final competence and discretion in decision-making regarding the processing of plans is still the Financial Supervision Authority itself, i.e. the Financial Supervision Authority is responsible for the resolution procedure of the banks from subsidiaries established in Estonia. Amendment 4 states that there is, however, an independent decision by each bank whether or not to grant support to a bank belonging to another group. Paragraph 23 of the draft law lays down the conditions under which banks may grant financial support to each other within a group. Paragraph 1 of that section stipulated that the granting of financial support would be mandatory for the bank in a way that was too imperative. Amendment 7 states that the resolution plan to be drawn up for each bank must contain information on a minimum requirement which may vary for each bank. The resolution plan shall be drawn up by the Financial Supervision Authority. Previous paragraphs 15 and 16 stipulated that information on the minimum level of own funds and eligible liabilities should also be included in the plan. With regard to Amendment 6, I would say so much that § 84 of the Credit Institutions Act lays down the rules for granting loans to related parties, such as managers and shareholders. The present paragraph 8 provides that shareholders with a stake of more than 1% may be granted only up to an amount not exceeding 15% of the bank's own resources. The amendment simplifies the rules somewhat, i.e. in the future this restriction applies only to large shareholders, those persons holding more than 10% of the bank's shareholding. As a separate issue, we discussed the issue of the resolution authority in the Commission. The Directive states that the resolution authority should be primarily the central bank, the ministry or a separate administrative body to prevent unjustified exercise of rights in normal financial supervision activities. The concentration of exceptionally large powers in the hands of small circles can create a conflict of interest situation and lead to other risks. The Financial Supervision Authority will be granted relatively high rights to intervene in the private autonomy of the undertaking, in particular with regard to shareholders and creditors. It also limits the powers of the judicial authorities to suspend, postpone and initiate ordinary proceedings for payment and bankruptcy. However, this wide-ranging intervention outweighs the public interest. During the drafting of this draft, it was decided that the functions of the resolution authority would be performed in particular by the Financial Supervision Authority. The supervisory and resolution powers of the Financial Supervision Authority within the meaning of this Act shall be defined. The representative of the initiator of the draft act explained the circumstances under which the Financial Supervision Authority was chosen as such body. In essence, the resolution function grows out of the supervisory function, as supervisory information provides society with information about the disruption of the activities of the supervisory entity. The current functions and competence of the Financial Supervision Authority are best associated with the resolution function in Estonian administrative management. Under current law, the Financial Supervision Authority also has the right to implement early intervention measures, such as moratoriums. At the level of information collection, processing and day-to-day work, this function overlaps very much with the daily activities of the Financial Supervision Authority. Thus, the establishment of such a system in the Estonian financial sector to a supervisory authority with a functioning and relevant competence is justified. Following the discussion, proposals No 11 and No 12 were taken into account in the Commission, which are intended to provide that the Financial Supervision Authority must coordinate with Eesti Pank its decisions concerning the opening of resolution proceedings and the further implementation of the resolution measure or law referred to in § 55 of the Act during the resolution procedure. The appointment of a special manager must also be coordinated with Eesti Pank. However, visits to the Monetary Commission have been received from Eesti Pank and the Financial Supervision Authority, which draw attention to the need to clarify the role of coordinating Eesti Pank in the decision-making of resolution measures. As a result, the Commission took decisions to propose the inclusion of the draft on the agenda on Wednesday 11 February 2015 and to suspend the second reading. Set the deadline of 12 February at 10 a.m. for the submission of amendments. These decisions were consensual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U121	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? The opening of negotiations is not recommended, so we can go to the revision of the amendments to draft 821. 16 amendments have been received. Proposals Nos 1 to 11 are from the lead commission: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11. Amendment 12 has been received from Aivar Sõerd, the position of the commission: take full account. Amendments 13 to 16 are from the lead committee: 13, 14, 15 and 16. The amendments have been examined. I would like to say that the second reading has been completed, but, as the good rapporteur said, discussions are continuing in the lead committee and the proposal of the lead committee is to interrupt the second reading. Second reading aborted. I will set the deadline for the 821 amendments. a 12 February at 10 a.m. Today's 15th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U122	We will move on to item 16, which is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Health Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 818. I ask for a presentation of the Chair's Chair of the Social Affairs Committee, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the procedure in the Commission between first and second readings. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 8 December 2014. I recall that the first reading took place on 14 January. No proposals were received from Riigikogu members or political groups by the deadline for submitting amendments. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft for the preparation of the second reading on 27 January. We decided to make two amendments that had come from the Estonian Association of Elders of Cancer Patients. Märt Avandi, Chairman of the Board of the Association, was also invited to the meeting of the Commission. Amendment 1 states that the insured person is entitled to care benefits on the basis of the maintenance sheet if the child is under 12 years of age for up to 60 calendar days if the disease is caused by a malignant tumor and the child's treatment starts at the hospital. The Estonian Association of Elderly Children with Cancer has approached the Ministry of Social Affairs with the problem that the current Health Insurance Act does not take into account the differences in care benefits for children with cancer compared to most other diseases. The Union has identified two distinctive features of the cancer treatment process. First of all, cancer treatment is a very long-term process that takes place on the basis of a specific treatment plan and where parent participation is certainly essential, especially during the initial period of treatment. Under the current Health Insurance Act, you can only receive a care sheet for 14 calendar days. Secondly, they pointed out that in cancer care, the parent is not only involved as a carer but, above all, as a part of the treatment process, on whom the effectiveness of the treatment is also dependent. Parents need to make the necessary arrangements for easier treatment. The Union proposed to initiate an amendment to the legislation to ensure that parents are compensated for the entire period spent in the hospital with the child, i.e. during the active treatment period, and, in the case of domestic treatment prescribed by the doctor, also during the time spent at home with the child. The Pediatricians' Association also agrees, which supported the Union proposal, but considered that this provision should extend to other parents of children with long-term illness. In the Commission, we also discussed this proposal and found that we first started with the maintenance sheet of parents whose child has a malignant tumor and the child's treatment begins in the hospital, and then we go on with other diseases that need to be next to the child for a long time. Amendment 2 states that the amendment introduced in the previous proposal will enter into force on 1 July 2015. We have also taken into account the impact on the health insurance budget. It's not very significant. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu made procedural decisions. The committee decided to propose that the draft be put on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu for the second reading of 818 and that the second reading be closed. We also decided to propose that, if we finish the second reading of the draft today, the draft could be sent to third reading by 18 February 2015 and the final vote carried out. The rapporteur for the Commission was appointed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U124	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We will begin the examination of the amendments to the draft 818. Two amendments have been received, both from the lead committee: the first amendment, the second amendment. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the 16th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U125	Let's move on to item 17. This is the second reading of the draft Law amending the State Secret and the Secret Foreign Information Act 822 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Rein Lang, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen! This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its regular meeting on 27 January 2015. So what did you find out? The fact that draft 822 has passed the first reading has turned out to be clear. The deadline for the amendments was set at 10 a.m. on 21 January 2004 and in the course of its reading. No amendments were received by the Commission at that time. However, the rapporteur of the commission, who is, by chance, the speaker here too, has come to the conclusion that the draft could be clarified in two respects when dealing with the initiator of the draft and in a series of other people. These clarifications, as explained above, would be as follows: A person who is required by this draft to notify his private journey to a foreign country, which is on the list established by the minister concerned, not only informs his abstract employer, but specifically the person who is responsible for the processing and protection of state secrets within that institution, company or organisation. That is the content of Amendment 1. The proposal was initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and agreed by consensus that it could also go to plenary as a proposal. The second amendment concerns a possible consequence for a person who ignores recommendations to not travel abroad. What might happen if he endangers himself and thus the preservation of state secrets. This draft sanction was not foreseen, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to initiate an amendment which would allow the right of access to the state secret of such a person to be revoked or not extended in the future. Nothing more substantive was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. These two amendments have been tabled on the draft and the Commission decided by consensus to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 11 February, i.e. today, and also to propose that the second reading be closed (as well as by consensus) and, if the second reading is closed today, that the draft be sent to a third reading on 18 February. The last proposal is also consensual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U127	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We will begin the examination of the amendments to draft 822. Two amendments have been received from the lead committee: the first and the second. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading of the draft must be completed. The second reading is closed and the 17th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U128	We will move on to item 18 - the second reading of the Act on Adult Education, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 798. Let it be said here so much that the commission is the Committee on Culture. We're going through the second reading today, February 11th. As usual, the presentation by the rapporteur of the commission will be up to 20 minutes. After that, there are up to two oral questions for the rapporteur. That is the key to the rules of procedure that I wanted to emphasise before going to the procedure. I would now like to ask Mart Meri, member of the Committee on Culture, for a speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U129	Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Adult Education Act 798 second reading. The Committee on Culture discussed the preparation for the second reading at its meeting on 19 January and 9 February. Sorry, I'll take a break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U130	I'll take the manager's break three minutes. The hearing will be resumed in three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U131	The break taken by the manager is over. We're in the process of handling bill 798. I would like to thank the rapporteur, on behalf of the President, who gave this Chamber a good light so that it would be better to work. Mr. Mart Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U132	Thank you. The Committee on Culture discussed the preparation for the second reading at its meeting on 19 January and 9 February. Terje Haidak, Head of the Adult Education Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, and Kati Uusmaa, lawyer of the Legal Department, took part in the discussions. Tiina Lokk, member of the Committee on Culture, was the first to deal with the draft, but because of her absence, the Commission decided to appoint a speaker here. A proposal from the Social Democratic Party's Envoy Group was received by the deadline for submitting amendments. In addition, opinions and suggestions were received from the Estonian Employers' Confederation and the Estonian Bar Association's Labour Law Committee. Very good work was done by the Secretariat of the Committee on Culture, which developed a series of drafting and technical proposals, including those that better link this draft to other relevant laws. As a result of this work and discussions, the Committee on Culture decided to table 23 amendments. Amendments that improve the comprehensibility of the law are to be considered as amendments which have been made in the form of amendments which have been made in the form of amendments to the law, as well as in the form of amendments which have been made in the form of amendments to the rules and regulations, as well as in the form of amendments to the law. I will not dwell on these changes. At the Commission's meetings, they were quickly welcomed and no disagreements were expressed. Amendment 15 was received from the Group of Ambassadors of the Social Democratic Party. This caused us the longest dispute, as it concerns one of the key issues of this draft: whether an employee has the right to further training based on his own needs, along with the pay for study leave, or whether he does not have the right to do so. The Commission had an argument about what professional development based on learner's needs means in real life. In other words, who has the right to define the needs of the learner, whether the learner himself or the employer? The Adult Education Act is known to be based on the concept of lifelong learning. In order to develop the labour market in general and to manage the labour market in concrete terms, opportunities for self-development by all must be encouraged. The dispute therefore concerned a very fundamental question as to whether the employer and the employee understand the specific need for continuing training in the same way or in different ways, whether self-improvement is generally viewed in a favourable or deplorable way, under what conditions the employer is willing to grant the employee study leave and pay the study leave fee and when he is entitled to refuse it. European labour law is based on the principle that the weaker party, i.e. the contractor, is protected in the regulation of industrial relations. On this basis, the Social Democrats had also proposed to the Commission. However, this was not sufficiently in favour of the Commission and the Commission did not support the proposal by 4 votes to 4 and 4 against. Since this issue has become one of the main points of this draft, which has also attracted the attention of the wider public, I quote here, in the interests of the verbatim report, the explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft: 'In the case proposed in the draft, it is possible to negotiate the content and necessity of the training. For example, the employee and the employer can agree that the employee also needs professional competences that he can use after leaving the employer to find and work a new job. The concept of training required for the purpose of professional development cannot be defined unambiguously and objectively at the level of the law. ' A few words also from Amendment 16, which contains several corrections, including provisions on study leave. First of all, it is specified that the right to study leave extends to study in equivalent educational institutions abroad, which the draft provides for in the context of Estonia. Secondly, the Commission took into account the Bar Association's proposal to establish 14 days of notice of leave, which is a general rule for all types of leave. On 19 January the Commission decided to submit a draft for the second reading of 798 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 11 February with a proposal to terminate the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U133	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. We are going to the amendments to the draft 798. 23 amendments have been received. Proposals 1 to 14 are from the lead commission: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. Amendment 15 to the draft is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Karel Knight, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U134	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U135	Let's start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote the 15th amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 19 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, against 20. The proposal was not supported. Amendments 16 to 23 have been tabled by the lead committee: 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23. The amendments have been examined. The position of the commission is that the second reading must be completed. The second reading is closed and the 18th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U136	We will move on to item 19, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the Private School Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation by Paul-Eerik Rummo, Member of the Cultural Commission of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U137	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! Draft 799 has been initiated, as we remember, in order to make some changes in the financing of the activities of general education schools, i.e. comprehensive schools and upper secondary schools. The draft passed the first reading on 17 December and 6 January, which was the deadline for submitting amendments, the proposals came from a member of the Riigikogu, Jaak Allik and the Central Party faction. The committee also communicated with the forces outside the Riigikogu, for example the Tartu City Government submitted its proposal. The Commission discussed the draft for the preparation of the second reading on three occasions, namely 19 and 26 January and 9 February. As a result of these discussions, the Commission has proposed three amendments. Now I would like to go to the brief presentation of these and other amendments. The proposal proposed by the Commission, which is in Table 3, is technical. Amendment 6 must also be considered technical. The rest of the proposals also have substance. Proposal No 1 was made by my colleague, Jaak Allik, who took advantage of the fact that the basic school and upper secondary school law was again open for discussion and processing, and proposed to continue to allow the establishment of full cycle schools and upper secondary schools, which act as a single institution. This has been the case in Estonia before. In the meantime, and according to the law currently in force, there is a situation where existing full-cycle schools can peacefully continue their activities in the same form and form, but new ones can no longer be established. Jaak Allik's proposal is that it is possible to re-establish schools with basic and upper secondary schools which act as a single institution, with basic education either in all primary school classes or in only one of the classes prior to consecutive upper secondary schools. After some debate, this proposal received the Commission's assessment that it would be fully taken into account. This decision was not consensual, but the will of the majority was evident in the vote. The completion of this proposal led to the need to make another proposal in the Commission. It's in the table under No 5. This draft amends some regulations not only in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, but also in the Private School Act, as private schools are also known to have the possibility of basic schools and upper secondary schools. In short, the change in provisions of this kind, as Amendment 1 introduced, called for similar objectives to be extended to private schools. This is reflected in proposal No 5. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party proposed, which is in Table 2. One of the purposes of initiating this draft was to increase the possibilities of paying salaries to support specialists, and the Group of the Estonian Central Party proposes one of its own options. In particular, if the salaries of teachers, directors and heads of study, as well as the provision of school meals and teaching resources are guaranteed in other words, the expenses are covered, which, in the case of municipal schools, are also covered by the state budget, the support granted from the state budget, as proposed by the Central Party Group, could also be used for the remuneration of support specialists, i.e. to guarantee their service. This proposal was not fully in favour of the lead committee and the Commission has decided not to do so. In the light of the proposal, the Commission considers that a situation would have arisen where the amount allocated to teachers' salaries and other allocations under the State Budget Act would be re-used vaguely and arbitrarily, for other purposes than those provided for. As a background, one could also imagine that the amount of this provision had been calculated somewhat too much, so that it could cover the main tasks for which it was intended and the money would be left over for something else. This would create even more confusion, but, as we know, the situation with regard to the remuneration of teachers and the financing of support specialists is already rather confusing. Proposal No 4 also belongs to the Centre Party and has in mind the objective that, since the private school law is open in a small way anyway, perhaps the issue arising from the Supreme Court's judgment can also be resolved on the move, which is linked to the obligation of local authorities to finance private schools as well. However, most of the committee found that the light-armed ceiling solution proposed by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party does not eliminate this problem and is not viable. The Commission has decided to disregard this proposal. I have now presented and substantiated all the proposals and gave an overview of the decisions taken by the Commission on them. The committee proposed to the Riigikogu plenary that the draft be sent to second reading by today's date and proposes that the second reading be completed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U138	Thank you. Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U139	Thank you, manager. Good Commission waitress! My question concerns the directing of investment support to support specialists where appropriate. If the bill is adopted as a law, is it expected that the amount of investment aid will increase? After all, the amount of investment aid is really marginal, and it is not enough for small repairs. Perhaps this is an empty amendment with no financial cover.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U140	As the Commission's discussions and so-called background studies have shown, the reality is diverse. Indeed, there are situations in which the surplus of investment aid is created is not a direct objective in which it is absolutely necessary to make full use of this money. In these cases, there can indeed be some support for the financing of support specialists. However, there are situations where this is not possible. So in the long run, it certainly will not solve the whole problem. However, the solution to the whole problem lies in a decision whose responsibility remains to pay for the work of the support specialists. This is clearly left to the next Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U141	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We will go to the examination of the draft 799 amendments. Six amendments have been received. The first amendment is Mr Alli, the Commission's position: to take full account. The second amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the position of the commission: disregard. The third amendment is from the lead committee. The fourth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the position of the commission: disregard. The fifth amendment is from the lead committee. The sixth amendment is from the lead committee. We have all examined six amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the 19th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U142	We will move on to the 20th item, which is the second reading of the Biocidal Products Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Draft Act amending the State Fees Act 754. Jaanus Tamkivi, Member of the Environment Committee of the Riigikogu Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U143	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed this draft law at its meeting on Monday 26 January. We then dealt with this draft in connection with the preparation of the second reading. Leelo Männik, chief specialist at the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, was invited. We discussed the Commission's proposals for amending the draft. It must be said immediately that these were mainly technical changes. The Ministry of Social Affairs proposed to change the deadlines for implementation, as the draft has been in the process for a very long time and the transitional period would have been very short for those affected by this draft law. On the proposal of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, certain changes were made to the wording resulting from the desire for the provisions to be harmonised in the relevant laws. It must also be said that there were no substantive changes proposed. The Commission prepared eight amendments, we all voted through them, and the results of the vote were consensual. Subsequently, the Commission took procedural decisions and took the following decisions: First, to propose to take the bill to second reading today, to propose to stop second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to propose to put the third reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu on 17 February. a and propose to put the draft to the final vote. All decisions were taken by consensus. I've finished introducing bill 754. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U144	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We will go to the examination of the draft 754 amendments. Eight amendments have been received from the commission: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8. The amendments have been examined. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the 20th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U145	Let's move on to item 21. This is the second reading of the draft law amending the law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation by Tõnis Kõiv, Member of the Environment Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U146	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the law on the protection of the air environment was here in the large hall at first reading on 17 December 2014. The deadline for amendments was set at 4 p.m. on 6 January 2015. No amendments were received by that date and time. The Committee on the Environment again took up the draft at its meeting on 9 February and acknowledged that it was a thoroughly prepared and good draft, of which I repeat more than three things. First of all, Estonia is fully transposing the EU Aviation Directive by this law. Secondly, we are creating a new system for trading greenhouse gas emission limits. And thirdly, we bring our legal space to a new, fluorinated greenhouse gas regulation. As there were no amendments, the Committee on the Environment made only a technical amendment concerning numbering. Point 17 of the draft law reads as new point 12. Its decision was consensual, as was the decision-making process on sending the draft to second reading, and also on sending the draft to third reading and adoption when the large hall finishes second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U147	Thank you, waitress. There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us now go to the examination of the amendments. One amendment has been received from the lead committee. The amendments have been examined. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the 21st item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U148	Let's move on to item 22. The second reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic continues. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Vice-Chairman of the Economic Commission, Toomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U149	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, A draft initiated by the Government of the Republic on 7 November 2012 is currently under discussion in this Chamber. The first reading took place on 30 November of the same year and the first reading was closed. The second reading of the bill in Riigikogu's plenary session took place on 27 February 2013 and the second reading was suspended on the proposal of the commission. The lead committee considered that the implementation of the grants covered by the draft could take place on the basis of the European Commission's State aid authorisation and decided to proceed with the draft procedure after receiving the State aid authorisation from the European Commission. The commission decided to continue the debate on the payment of renewable energy subsidies for the power plant's own consumption between the end of the second reading and the continuation of the second reading. No amendments were received from the members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups by the deadline for submitting amendments, 13 March 2013 at 5 p.m. Between the end of the second reading and the continuation of the draft, several companies and organisations submitted opinions and proposals to the Economic Commission. All proposals and opinions on the draft can be consulted on the website. On 9 May 2013, the Committee on Economic Affairs held a debate on the payment of renewable energy subsidies for the power plant's own consumption. As a result of the debate, the Commission decided to turn to the political groups for a position. For the second time, the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the issue of the power plant's own consumption on 22 October of the same year, when the vote was also held. Following the entry into force of the new European Commission guidelines on 1 July 2014, the Ministry of Economic Affairs worked more smoothly with the European Commission, and after further clarifications and requests were submitted, the European Commission finally issued a positive decision authorising the granting of State aid for electricity subsidies from a renewable and efficient cogeneration mode in Estonia. The authorisation concerns both the support scheme in force at the time the draft was drawn up and the support scheme that has come into force since the beginning of 2015. The authorisation has explained that at the end of 2014 the scheme in force at the time the draft was drawn up was in accordance with all State aid rules and is only approved if it is replaced by a new scheme in 2015. Following the end of the second reading of draft 318, the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft on 25 February 2014 and on 25 February 2014. a meeting of 20 and 27 January and 5 February. At its meeting on 5 February, the Commission discussed the amendments to the draft and the referral of the draft to second reading. The Commission decided to propose 23 amendments to the draft, 19 of which were submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Three of these amendments are fundamental. Firstly, regulation to introduce less supply arrangements, secondly, granting support to micro-producers outside the offer, thirdly, including the regulation of cooperation mechanisms for the development of renewable energy. Now, briefly, the amendments themselves. The content of the first amendment states that the price of electricity used as a reference for the payment of the aid comes from the weighted average price of electricity purchased in the Estonian price area on the market of Nordpool Spot in the calendar month preceding the payment of the aid. This price best reflects the state of the electricity market and is therefore the best reference for the payment of subsidies. The third amendment allows for the payment of subsidies to a producer of electricity from a renewable energy source whose gross electrical capacity of the generating plant does not exceed 11 kilowatts, i.e. the gross capacity needed to meet the household demand. The fourth amendment lays down the rates of aid applicable only to "existing producers" which meet at the latest one of the conditions referred to in § 59 (23) on 1 June 2015. First, electricity is produced, secondly, as a result of the heat competition, they have a contract for the purchase and sale of district heating, thirdly, a valid building permit has been issued for the construction of the production plant, fourthly, KIK has made a positive investment decision to co-finance the construction of the production plant. According to the fifth amendment, paragraph 21 refers to a producer of wind electricity as an existing producer if the producer fulfils at least one of the four conditions referred to in paragraph 23. This amendment ensures the possibility for a wind-powered producer of electricity to receive EUR 93 per megawatt-hour of aid referred to in the Act, less the market price if the producer complies with the definition of an existing producer, i.e. at least one of the four conditions set out in § 59 (23) is met. The sixth amendment guarantees the payment of aid to the producer at a rate not higher than the amount of aid in force for electricity produced from a renewable source, i.e. EUR 53,7 per megawatt-hour, and EUR 32 per megawatt-hour for electricity produced from an efficient cogeneration mode. The purpose of the amendment is to protect consumers from the situation where the price of electricity on the market is below such a level that there may be a need to pay producers more support than that in force at the time the draft is drawn up. Amendment 7. The competition authority may, at the request of the manufacturer, coordinate a rate different from that of the aid. This new coordinated support rate shall not be higher than EUR 53,7 per megawatt-hour, unless the electricity is produced in an efficient cogeneration mode from a renewable energy source or peat. The ninth amendment states that no aid may be paid to the producer for the electricity provided for in point 34 of the State aid authorisation, which has been produced at a negative market price. In the event of payment of the aid, the distortion of the market would be aggravated and would put producers not receiving the aid in a more unequal position. The tenth amendment makes it clear that the market price for electricity on the basis of which the rate of aid is paid must be determined on the basis of the weighted average daily market price of Nordpool Spot, calculated on the basis of the volume of purchases made on the market in each hour prior to the period of support and the purchase prices. Amendment 11 distinguishes wind electricity producers from existing ones when the plant produces electricity as of 1 June 2015. There is a limit of 600 gigawatt-hours, where no additional support is granted to existing wind power producers in the same calendar year. The purpose of the amendment is to provide that the winner of the competition organised under § 593 who produces electricity from the wind receives support regardless of the completion of the 600 gigawatt-hour limit of the year. The new producer receives the aid for the quantity set out in the tender, which was declared to be the lowest in the tender. The 12th amendment concerns the setting of a minimum limit for this calendar year. The objective is to enable all existing producers and micro-producers (less than 11 kilowatts) to benefit from the aid without having to participate in the auction in accordance with § 593. In summary, all existing producers and micro-producers (up to 11 kilowatts) will receive support in excess of the threshold. Amendment 13 states that the cost of managing the certificates of origin database must be justified. Amendment 14 also makes it possible to include in the calculation of the renewable energy fee the costs associated with the electronic management of the certificate of origin and the organisation of the execution of statistical energy transfers. The 15th amendment concerns the purpose and achievement of subsidies for the generation of electricity from renewable sources and in efficient cogeneration. It thus mentions the overall target for electricity produced from renewable sources by 2020: 17,6% of indigenously consumed electricity must be produced from renewable sources. The support for cogeneration is due to the objective of producing 20% of indigenously consumed electricity in cogeneration mode by 2020. The relevant objective is set out in the National Development Plan for Estonia's Energy Economy until 2020. The same amendment describes what the Minister must follow in order to organise a less bid. Amendment 16 adds a chapter on the use of renewable energy cooperation mechanisms to the Electricity Market Act. This is an opportunity for transnational cooperation in achieving the renewable energy target for 2020. Statistical transfers take place between countries, here the statistics at producer level and the amounts paid for them do not move, the two countries agree on the sale of statistics on energy from renewable sources. According to the amendment, the revenue from the sale proceeds from renewable energy charges in the budget will accrue to the revenue line, thus reducing the co-financing rate for consumers. Amendment 17 does not have anything important to report to you here, nor did the 18th amendment. Amendment 19 concerns essentially the payment of subsidies for the production of electricity produced from biomass. If, under the agreement concluded in the framework of the statistical trade, it is possible to generate more revenue than would be necessary to support electricity produced from the 11th energy block of the Baltic power plant (B11) or Auvere power plant from a renewable source, the Government of the Republic will be able to decide to pay this support to the B11 and Auvere power plant. Amendment 21 aims to ensure that a production plant constructed in place of an old production plant is not eligible for support if the old production plant has been depreciated according to the usual accounting criteria and is supported only in terms of capacity exceeding that of the old plant. The 23rd and final amendments are on the entry into force of the law. The Act enters into force on 1 June 2015 and paragraphs 5 and 6 of § 1 of the Act enter into force on 1 January 2016. The procedural decisions and proposals of the commission were such that the Committee on Economic Affairs decided to send the draft for the second reading to the Riigikogu plenary by 11 February. While at the beginning the Commission had a proposal to conclude the second reading of the draft, it was decided differently at the extraordinary Economic Commission meeting of 10 February, namely to interrupt the second reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U150	Good waitress! You have questions. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U151	Thank you. I didn't quite understand the last description. I have also succeeded on one occasion in attending this committee as an alternate. It is clear that different parties have different interests and the subject is complex. But I understand that this bill has been being processed for many years, and we have reached some point with it. What was the reason for the extraordinary meeting yesterday and decided not to continue the second reading so that the law could not be passed by this body? Where exactly is this reason? What knowledge had the Economic Commission gained?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U152	Thank you. This is, of course, the main reason for the current sections of the government, the Reform Party and the Social Democrats, who took such a decision in fear that nobody would like this draft. Perhaps the problems were also seen in the fact that many producers are critical of this draft and the letters received from ministries also indicate that many see problems here. But to be honest, there is no bill in which no one sees problems. I say that it is more about involuntaryness and the ability of the current government coalition to make important decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U153	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U154	Thank you. It is sad that the rapporteur did not report the real reasons that the Committee on Economic Affairs actually put on paper when making its decision. But I understand the waitress wasn't at the meeting last night, maybe she doesn't know them. The reason was very simple: a more thorough legal analysis must be carried out. The main reason, however, is that the European Commission must be informed because the support scheme has been amended. That was the practical reason. But here's what I'm asking you. Two years ago, a good waitress used a bill from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in this remote area that the new scheme would benefit consumers by EUR 283 million. The analysis by the Competition Authority shows that this new scheme would have cost the consumer even more than the old scheme in view of the market prices of the previous year. Have you realized whether it was stupid to come up with these big, beautiful numbers and slogans, or was it a conscious bluff? Why were statements made that have proved to be a great lie?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U155	Thank you. I will first come to the beginning of your question. This emergency session yesterday was a surprise to me. One of us had come, but the title did not say that there would be an emergency meeting. I really didn't know this was going to be a trial. Yes, Siim was there, he saw the message. But I told you why I didn't participate. At this point, I would like to comment to the chairman of the committee that, if an extraordinary meeting is held, it would be polite to make it known in such a way as to make it known. The minutes do not state the reasons which were the problems and why such a decision was taken. Again, a paper came from the Chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs, which stated laconically: 'Do you want to cancel the second reading? " But there was no explanation. That's it. The problem raised that we must inform the European Commission does not prevent the adoption of this law. The Ministry of Finance has written that they believe that the answer should be informed and awaited. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has said that we simply have to inform and we have enough time to wait for the answer, because the law will only enter into force in June. There are different concepts here. I don't see a problem here that interferes with the adoption of the law. Even earlier, two years ago, we could have passed the law in this hall, knocked off. We should not have waited for the State aid permit, but we agreed that this was the correct way, because at the time it was clear that the application for a State aid permit would go faster. You made criticism that at the beginning we were talking about EUR 280 million until 2020. We don't know that right now. Perhaps we will say in 2020 that the consumer won EUR 300 or 400 million. We're talking on a one or two-year basis right now. I say the opposite: today is the perfect opportunity to adopt this law, because now the stock market price is so low. If you remember the critical letters that came here at the time, you know that there was only one justification: the existing producers will lose tens and hundreds of millions of euros because the price of electricity will only rise. It was not written directly, but it was understood that those who claim otherwise that this price might fall are foolish because there is no such option. Thank God the price of electricity has been so low for a year or two! Consumers have won, everyone has won. With regard to the claim that consumers would have paid for now, I have to say that I received such information in the Committee on Economic Affairs that, as of last year, consumers would still have won, either EUR 300000 or, in any case, a few hundred thousand euros, at a low exchange price. After all, the purpose of this draft is to limit the price of electricity to overcompensation if it increases. For this to happen when the price goes down, we have introduced Arto in the sixth amendment, which should be very well aware, because it was his initiative, that if the stock exchange price is essentially less than EUR 40, then no more than EUR 53.7 will be paid. This is a problem that has been raised in recent days and which has become the subject of new criticism. I understand the producers, they have to stand up for their own interests. However, we here must stand up for the interests of consumers. But I really don't understand whose interests the coalition stands for right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U156	I have a request for both questioners and respondents to stay within the framework of Bill 318. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U157	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U158	I'm more or less in the frame. This is where the coalition is accused very diligently. As a person interested in history, I would rewind the clock even further. On 14 February 2007, this Renewable Energy Support Act was passed in the Riigikogu. I would like to remind everyone, especially the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. I don't know if you were in the Union at that time, but in any case you both, both the paternals and the respublikaans, were as one man in favour of renewable energy subsidies, in addition to the soccer and middle party support. The Reform Party was probably the only one who opposed them and did not support this idea. That's the law that got me into trouble. That we are now resolving this and that we have to violate someone's legitimate expectations, it is not worth putting the coalition on the collar. Look back, think about it, you haven't cooked up the soup that the rule of law now has to deal with in a reasonable way.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U159	The question is, do you see your guilt here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U160	Thank you. I don't see my guilt here at all, I wasn't in the Riigikogu at the time. I dare say that at the time, I think that Fatherland and Res Publica were in a separate Riigikogu, but we were not all then members of the Riigikogu. Very diverse associations supported this law at the last moment. I would point out that we are essentially faced with the same decision, we will continue in the same direction. We still do not dare to make decisions that might help to improve the situation and reduce the possibility of over-compensation. We have this opportunity, but we're not gonna do it. Again, this draft will be put in a drawer before the elections, although everything is actually ready, in the Commission all the amendments have been voted by consensus. Suddenly, though, the weekend comes between, the back rooms do not know what, and then other decisions come to this table. The coalition has suddenly decided they don't like it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U161	Thank you. Once again, I ask you to stick to what was discussed in the Commission and not in other rooms. Okay. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U162	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! If we frame the Commission's debate, Mr Randpere tried to distance himself here from knowing nothing about what happened in 2007. I'll ask the waitress a question, though. To my knowledge, Reiljan, Savisaar and Ansip were at first in power in 2007. The Reform Party led this government; the Reform Party also submitted a draft. The government union then consisted of these three parties. Is it right for a coalition politician to make his previous actions look like he was somewhere behind a tree or in a mudionu's pit?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U163	Thank you. I really wouldn't go back to 2007. Today we have 2015 and a new composition, new members of the Riigikogu. I stand for us to make the right decisions today. I say that throwing this bill into the trash, or leaving it in the next composition, which must then start all over again, is not statesmanly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U164	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U165	Thank you. As the Economic Commission's decision to do so in the law now does not result in the expected and planned change, my question to you is as follows. In this situation, does our current support scheme have the European Union's permission, or do we not have it? This authorisation was given, as we know, on account of the fact that we are putting in place a new support scheme.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U166	Thank you. As far as we have received answers from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, we have received a conditional authorisation for state aid. If we adopt this new scheme, the old scheme will also become an amnesty and will be covered by a state aid permit. If we do not introduce this in the course of 2015, the European Commission can start infringement proceedings. We don't know if they're gonna start this today. It's the same thing as the Treasury Department, who says we have to inform first. I say, on the basis of other data, that we can adopt the law and then inform you that nothing will happen. After all, Estonia has experience of complying with the so-called commands of the European Union. Remember when we had ten sinks in all the dining places, but there was one everywhere else in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U167	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U168	I would like to add, to make it clear, that in 2007 I really was not even in politics, but then Urmas Reinsalu voted in favour of this draft. So in order to climb out of the molehole, Urmas could rather pull himself together and admit that he supported this draft renewable energy subsidies that have cooked up all this soup here. But I'm asking you that question. Do you admit that sometimes, in the rule of law, problems arise because, if something is promised and someone has a legitimate expectation, the reversal of this promise could mean a claim for damages for the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U169	Thank you. I totally agree. Legitimate expectations were also one of the main topics of discussion two years ago. But two things were forgotten. European Union subsidies and our consumers' wallet are not intended to compensate for 'over-compensation'. The aim of the renewable energy policy is to ensure that renewable energy producers have reasonable productivity in order to produce sufficient quantities of renewable energy in Estonia. This scheme also required authorisation of State aid. So far, Estonia has paid these allowances, I think that I am not lying illegally when I say this. We did not really have the permission to do so, and there was a risk that the European Commission would at one point recover the subsidies paid to them by producers. Even now, there is this danger. It has not been said here at all that there is now a very big problem that several investments in the renewable energy sector have been behind the same law for two years. We here, how to say, we're gonna chicken out and we're gonna discuss it when someone writes again, maybe this letter is even ordered, that there are problems and so on. This law has left behind a number of investments, which do not receive loans from the bank. You can't start with them because you don't know what we're taking here and if we're taking anything at all. We're still getting back to the fact that there were consensual decisions until 10 February. It could be said that the Reform Party at the last moment did not participate in the votes on 5 February, or rather, did not participate, the rest did. For the most part, all of us were friendly and united in understanding what was right and what was wrong. I am sorry that we are in this Chamber today with the Commission's decision to interrupt the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U170	Kalev Kallemets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U171	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, I'm not gonna press charges. I'm not gonna remember history. It is just right that these decisions were made in 2007 on 14 February and today it is 11 February, or very, very much before the last time, in the Riigikogu's sense. You rightly stated that there were many letters on the subject. Aren't you worried that we're not doing anything with one of those points that we're gonna regret for a while? Indeed, companies have been waiting for this law, but perhaps the next composition can decide on it in a more peaceful environment and take real responsibility. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U172	Thank you. That's the subject I hear all the time, but the other way around, I don't get it. This bill has been on our table for several years. Now we have debated it, we have voted through its points in this Chamber of the Riigikogu and have received a State aid permit. As a result of this authorisation, some technical amendments and some substantive proposals have also been included in the draft. The problematic amendments were voted out in committee; we did not put them in. I dare say that one of the problematic points remained, that is the proposal of Arto Asa. I really do not know why he did this, so that there is reason to say that the Reform Party stands up for consumers. In any case, this is a very sympathetic proposal, and the Committee on Economic Affairs supported it. Somehow the Reform Party's own support didn't come up behind it. The same sixth amendment, at least as I understand it, has now become one of the brakes of this draft and the reason why the Reform Party and the Social Democrats cannot support this draft. There may indeed be a fear of violating the principle of legitimate expectations. On the consumer side, I believe that this is a legitimate amendment. This is the only amendment that has come at the last moment and on which we can really say that it has not been discussed very thoroughly. The Ministry of Finance has also issued an opinion on this. He thinks that first we should be informed and then we should decide. The Ministry of Economic Affairs considers that we can decide and adopt this law now and then inform them. It's the kind of thing who likes what kind of option. My understanding is that if the sixth amendment is a problem, then the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs on 10 February would have had to discuss this point in exceptional circumstances rather than interrupting the draft procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U173	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U174	Thank you. Honourable waitress! As you have noted, Mr Randpere was deeply concerned about the application of the principle of legitimate expectations. Do you, a good waitress, remember if the coalition in this Chamber was equally concerned about the application of the principle of legitimate expectations when the supplementary maternity pension that had come into force this year was canceled? Do you remember that was the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U175	Thank you. It can be said that this is linked to the Commission's decision. That is a concern that the coalition does not support this bill. He finds that others have written and said that they have a problem. Similarly, there are concerns with every bill. They were denied a maternity pension, there was a planning law when a large number of interest groups were run over. We can give many examples. The laws with which we have made the business environment more bureaucratic and made the situation of small businesses worse, they have not agreed, but we are going over them on a road roll. But now there's a problem. I say there's always a problem. We have to decide, that's why we're here. I don't see a problem in this bill. I acknowledge that the sixth amendment, which really hurts the legitimate expectations of existing producers, is a concern. But I don't dare tell them to win when they go to court. It's just a matter of feeling. However, I repeat that we have adopted a great many laws here, with which we have worsened the business environment of a very large number of businesses, many factories may have to be closed down or workers must be made redundant. This is our job here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U176	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U177	Thank you. First of all, Thomas, I'm gonna take care of your complaint why yesterday's emergency session wasn't better informed. In fact, whoever wanted to know, it found out, and it showed up. But you claimed that it was the task of the members of the Riigikogu to stand up for the rights of consumers. I think that this is certainly also a very necessary and good action, but it is clear that we must look at society as a whole. Valdo Randpere reminded me of 2007 and I wouldn't go that far. I recall the time when your party's Minister of Economic Affairs was Juhan Parts. At that time, the whole process began. Whose fault do you think it was that the renewable energy scheme didn't have a state aid permit back then?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U178	I think it was a government mistake. But let's be honest, they actually started working on it to get that permission. To this end, the scheme had to be changed. When we talk about legitimate expectations, there is one aspect to this. This legitimate expectation is also linked to the concerns of companies that this scheme does not have a State aid authorisation. That means that at some point they might have to pay back all the money. I may have been a little wrong about it in that sense if you understood it the way you got it. We must stand up for everyone: businesses, consumers and everyone. We need to make balanced decisions, and that is what we want to do here. With this bill, I have the impression that I am looking at all the letters that have come to me that no one is protecting the consumer here. If we don't, no one will protect him. I want balance everywhere. This is now a complex draft, which is why, once again, I would like to remind you that it relates to a State aid authorisation that is necessary for everyone. This helps to avoid overcompensation. At present, the electricity exchange price is low. It is nice if entrepreneurs do not lose financially. I am very happy that producers will continue to receive the same subsidies as before and that electricity will be cheap for consumers. This bill sets limits to possible over-compensation in case the stock exchange price rises. That is the whole purpose of this draft: to obtain State aid authorisation for this scheme, so that everything is formal and legal. It's very simple, but somehow it's not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U179	Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U180	Thanks! I understand that there is a group of historical enthusiasts together, we are talking about February 2007 and 1918 and then February 2015 as well. But maybe you're educating us. What was the situation with regard to this principle of legal expectation, for example, in February 2014 and for how long do we already have this State aid permit? So, what have we done in the meantime to stick around here last week? But the law must, of course, be passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U181	Thank you. Good question. The State aid permit must have arrived around the end of the summer. I realized that some time was required for the changes resulting from this State aid authorisation. But there were also some substantive changes that really raised questions in the Commission. We didn't support them. There's no real reason. If the current government coalition wanted to process this, then, I dare say, it would have been possible, because the Commission did not delay anything. We asked repeatedly how far they were and when they would come to the Commission with this draft. We were ready. We made a task force as soon as this bill got to this house to deal with it as soon as possible. In this sense, it is sad that we are now in a situation where the draft has been debated in the Commission and is actually ready to be adopted as a law, but we are not.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U182	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U183	Thank you. First of all, I'll tell Jaan Apple Tree as a reminder. We have a democratic state, and the coalition of government is still responsible. All this anti-consumer decision on renewable energy charges was taken by the government coalition, which included the Reform Party and the Centre Party. The same government coalition that currently frightens the Estonian people. That's it. In my opinion, too, this bill is ripe for legal admission in exactly the form that it has come to this hall. I don't see much of a risk here after Arto Asa's proposal for improvement. This law could have been passed in 2012, but the Reform Party was against it at all times. But I'll ask the waitress again. I listened carefully to what you were saying, but I did not understand why the Committee on Economic Affairs gave up the adoption of this law in the last second, even though all the bureaucratic requirements have been met and, in essence, the draft is beneficial for consumers in the longer term.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U184	Thank you. Since I myself was not present at this committee session, because I did not know that this session would be held in a sincere manner, saying that I did not know, I do not know what was going on there. There is only one line in the protocol: there is a proposal to suspend the procedure. But in the light of the previous and also Arto Asa's reply, when he explained some of these reasons, I understand that the letter from the Ministry of Finance is one of the reasons. The sixth amendment requires the European Commission to be informed. The Ministry of Finance considers that it should be notified first. The Department of Economic Affairs thinks we don't have to notify first, adopt the law, and then notify. It's really who thinks it is now. The other thing is, it's really messed up. I don't understand this problem here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U185	Kalev Kallemets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U186	Dear waitress, We're trying to be very precise. I also believe that the sixth proposal is very correct, which will help to balance this draft and protect the interests of consumers. But in retrospect, it has to be said that the draft received did not do so. This amendment came at a rather last minute. So it has not been a good opportunity to understand precisely its impact and to give the European Commission sufficient opportunity to assess whether it is compatible with the State aid authorisation. Is it justified to take legal risks now, or should we wait a few months for the new formation to deal with this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U187	Thank you. The Ministry of Economic Affairs found that, although they did not support the sixth proposal, there was no risk. We're just informing and that's it. The European Commission has also made it clear orally during the discussion that they are in favour of such a ceiling. In that sense, they didn't see the problem. Yes, if you try to be more correct than everyone else and find the reasons why this law should not be passed, then you can say that the letter from the Ministry of Finance gives us the'reason' for informing and waiting. We've been waiting two years for a state aid permit, we can always expect something somewhere. Someone might write that, hey, wait for it, think about it, and he's got this problem. I say, there is no bill with which no one would have any concerns and on which there would be no other opinion than what those who adopt this law think. As a representative of the Commission, I say once again that the draft procedure was interrupted, but as a lead judge, I do not understand this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U188	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Arto Asa speech chair of the Riigikogu, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U189	Ladies and gentlemen, Some things need to be clarified and discussed. Firstly, the impression has been given that the Riigikogu has been discussing this draft enormously for two or three years. That's not true. This whole sequence of events really began in 2007, when hastily and in whatever circumstances the rates of renewable energy subsidies were adopted, which, so it began to seem a little bit later, are extremely lush and there is a risk of over-compensation. Estonia has ambitious renewable energy targets, but with these subsidies we have moved towards these targets even faster than anyone would have ever imagined. As a result, in 2012 Juhan Parts concluded an agreement with certain producers on how to change the scheme. This initiative must certainly be praised in itself, but let us say that there is no mandate or legal basis for the Riigikogu with this agreement. But that's it. From this agreement, the bill that was in this house two years ago was born in 2013. As in a certain point, the draft was voted through and sent to the European Commission for authorisation of State aid. That was two years ago. For two years, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the European Commission dealt with, discussed, analysed the legality of this State aid authorisation, whether or not the new and old schemes are in line with it. I don't know how this job can be done for two years, but it was done. The answer came from there at the end of October last year, not at the end of summer. Then the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications took another three months to present us with these amendments. It was at the very last minute. So we've had a few or three weeks to discuss these things here in essence. We have not, in fact, been able to discuss them for three years, but for three weeks. However, when many thought that the European Commission would have a yes or no response and then we would do a third reading, that was not the case. There were five fundamental changes to the draft submitted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Quite a lot of changes, with these amendments not being sent to market participants, other government bodies or anyone for coordination. These proposals came to us here to present a fine official of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and that's it. We didn't even see the minister. As chairman of the committee, I had to start doing the work that should actually be the initiator's work. I sent these proposals and drafts to the Competition Authority, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the State Chancellery. We received a lot of feedback, such as dozens of reference errors. In some places where the draft was intended to support wind power, because of a reference error in some sections, cogeneration plants would have started receiving this support, or vice versa. Such mistakes were inside, and it was a two-year bill. The Secretary of State wrote to us that, with such fundamental changes, the draft should actually be sent to the government first so that the government would shape its position and only then could it come to the Riigikogu. So when we talk about good practice in lawmaking, unfortunately, there is not too much room for that here. It is true that we worked very hard in the Commission to perhaps draw the line. Last year we asked how far this job was, because time is ticking. At the end of last year, we asked how far we were, because time is ticking. Then we didn't get the bill. We got it at the last minute, and basically we were made a rubber stamp. It is the legal part of the matter that there are very many shortcomings in this draft. The Legal and Analytical Department of our own house also wrote that the amendments to the sections are still justified in some way in the draft, but the economic content, the substantive need for the amendments are not justified. We can expect that, in whatever form, this law will ever be passed, in any case, someone will challenge it in court. If the legislator has not shown that he has made reasoned choices if the initiator has not written a thorough legal and economic analysis, then in any case this law will be challenged and, in any case, we will be able to kill in court. That's the legal part. The economic side is still going to be there. When this agreement was concluded in 2012, the market price for electricity was EUR 40, to which this grant rate of EUR 53 was added, in total EUR 93. At the time, everyone who initiated the price of electricity, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, cut out that the price of electricity would certainly rise in the future, there is no other option. As Toomas Tõniste said, it was as if the fall in the price of electricity had been ruled out, it was considered an idiot who thought that way. Excuse my language! The reality is that electricity prices have now fallen in the open market, which is EUR 33 per megawatt-hour. This means that without a stop, the new scheme would be more expensive for the consumer. Let's look at last year's bill, it turns out that the new scheme would be even more expensive for the consumer. If we are currently paying producers EUR 53 per megawatt-hour, the new scheme will already have an increase of EUR 60 to 14%. It is economic absurd in the sense that the whole purpose of the draft, the reason why the changes were initiated, was to ensure our renewable energy targets for society in a less burdensome way. The aim of the whole thing was to reduce overcompensation, to reduce the amount of subsidies. I do not know whether, for stupidity, naivety or any other reason, the possibility that the price of electricity might fall and renewable energy charges should start to rise at a time like this was not taken into account. It really doesn't make sense. The interests of consumers are completely unprotected in this version of the draft, which was in the European Commission and came from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications of the Economic Commission. Against the background of anyone thinking about consumers too, the proposal to set a certain ceiling for the current level of subsidies, the same amount of EUR 53 that no one has ever received more. This would guarantee a certain legitimate expectation and would also protect consumers' interests to some extent. But I admit that this proposal came from this very committee only at an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, where it was supported, but of course it has led different parties, such as law firms and others, to write us various requests. In addition, the Ministry of Finance, which is the competence centre of Estonia in state aid matters, wrote to us literally that, if the state aid conditions are also restricted, the European Commission should be informed of this in a simplified manner. It's a simplified procedure. If it took two months earlier, we will now be assured that a simplified procedure will take one month. Now I ask where we are in a hurry today when we know that all our decisions will be challenged if we deliberately start breaking state aid rules without informing us. Let us add to this the economic side that, in fact, the current scheme is now more favourable to the consumer or, at least, just as good. What is the practical reason that we have to beat the drum and say that we will commit a crime if we do not send this bill to third reading? We've got to fix the law. We have also proposed to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to write a new whole text, to do proper impact analysis and legal analysis and coordination circles within the government and with market participants and to inform the European Commission, then in two or three months we would be able to adopt the law with a calm heart, not to do again the legal and economic stupidity that history has shown, unfortunately, here in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U190	Thank you. Thomas Tõniste must have been before. Mr. Tõniste, I would like you to join the Riigikogu Chair! We're in the middle of a second reading, as far as I know, and everyone here can take the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U191	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Since I was here for a long time, I'm going to be very brief. We know that the composition of the Riigikogu, if necessary, passed the laws of the troubling group at night sessions in an extremely rapid manner, without any economic analysis, because it was urgent. Nobody cared about the opposition, criticism or the legal side. In that sense, I'm glad. The only sad thing is it's only one or two weeks before the last session of its composition, it's gonna make it to the coalition. [[Interjection.]] Exactly! Better late than never. This draft, indeed, I dare say, was dealt with in an operational and constructive manner by the Committee on Economic Affairs until the end of last week, and we have found a good solution. We fixed the ditch that was stuck in it. The bill became such that the law can be passed here. Once again, if this proposal from the Committee on Economic Affairs had become a stumbling block, I would have understood if the Committee on Economic Affairs had discussed this point at an extraordinary meeting. It can now be seen that the government coalition is not really ready to adopt this law or that they do not have the will to do so. There, too, are all the reasons that we have heard for each draft if there is a wish to justify why it should not be adopted. That is why I say once again that I support, and I believe that the IRL Group will also support, and, as I understand, many members of the Riigikogu sitting on the left would also support the adoption of this law. I do not think that this is a one-day decision; the impact of this draft will last until 2020 and beyond. It is very sad when we manipulate one day on the basis that you see, now the price is 33 euros and the consumer loses. If the next day's price is 46 euros, we'll be quiet. If the price is 37 euros, we say you see, now he'll lose again. In fact, we need to look at the basis of the year and in the long term. Once, when this bill was presented here, we were told about the consumer's estimated victory of EUR 230 million or EUR 280 million. Once again, fortunately it didn't work out that way. Instead, the price of energy was below, would not have lost producers or consumers and would have been no problem. It has always been threatened that this decision will be challenged. Come on, this way we can't pass any laws! I do not recall that the Tallinn Council, when I led the Economic Commission there, would have discussed any detailed plans that would not have been on the table a letter from a lawyer who promised to challenge this plan and accused us of breaking the Constitution. I don't remember any of these times, but no decisions were challenged. There are often no arguments for this. I'd even care what I'd go to court with. And even if they do, it's normal regulation. Of course, if someone finds that his rights are being violated, he'll go to court, that's what's normal. We are a normal democracy. But it can't be a reason for not adopting the law that someone says that if this law is passed, he might go to court, but maybe he won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U192	Thank you. Now for the speech. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U193	Thank you. I would like to emphasise that, thanks to the vote on the Arto Asa amendment, this draft is now in such a state that it will certainly protect the interests of consumers. You don't want to get confused in that sense. But more importantly, what Toomas Tõniste stressed in his earlier speech is that entrepreneurs are in a precarious situation. They do not know whether they can move forward with investments, whether they should do them or not. This uncertainty will be prolonged because the second reading of this draft will now be suspended once again. All in all, it is very unfortunate. Recently, the Social Democrats proudly informed us that they did four years of government work in nine months. Four years' work has been done in nine months at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. At the head of Arto Asaga, the Committee on Economic Affairs did the work of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. But the result, unfortunately, is still zero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U194	What do you say? There's no more calls. I shall close the negotiations and begin the examination of the draft 318 amendments. 23 amendments have been received and all of them are from the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. Usually the second reading is closed, at present the lead committee has a proposal to interrupt the second reading of draft 318. I will set the deadline for the submission of 318 amendments for the composition of the XII Riigikogu on 26 February at 16:00. Second reading interrupted and item 22 closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U195	Let's move on to item 23. The second reading of the draft Safety Act 758 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like to ask Kalev Kallemetsa, member of the Economic Commission for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U196	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission received nine amendments to the draft Act on Safety of Equipment in due time and they had been tabled by the originator. They were discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs on 5 February and were unanimously approved. Most of them are worded and technical. However, I would like to draw attention to Amendment 8, which was tabled by the initiator of the Commission's proposal by the referee. This shall include penalties for non-compliance with the requirements for the safe handling of the device and penalties for non-compliance with the requirements for the putting into service or use of the device or the requirements for its operation, where this has caused a risk or damage to the life, health, matter or environment of the person. The fine rate for legal persons is now up to EUR 32000 instead of EUR 3200. Thus, if the requirements for the safe handling of the device under that law have been infringed, the penalty rate will be ten times in the future. I think this is a substantive change that I wanted to introduce to you. It was unanimously supported by the Commission. The Commission unanimously proposed the completion of the second reading. When the second reading is closed, we will have a proposal to put the draft to the final vote next Wednesday, the 18th skp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U197	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. We will begin the examination of the draft 758 amendments. Nine amendments have been received from the lead committee. The amendments have been examined. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the 23rd item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U198	Let's move on to item 24. The second reading of the draft law implementing the Construction Code and the Planning Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like to ask Deniss Borodichi, member of the Economic Commission for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U199	Good chairman of the sitting! Good Riigikogu! The draft law implementing the Building Code and the Planning Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 13 January of last year. The first reading in Riigikogu's plenary session took place on 25 February last year and the first reading was closed. The main purpose of this draft law is to provide for the implementation of the Building Code and the Planning Act. Separate legislation on implementation is necessary, in particular for reasons of clarity and comprehension. The entry into force of the Building Code and the Planning Act is also linked to the entry into force of the Implementation Act. Such a link is necessary for changes in the field to take effect at the same time. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees by the deadline for submitting amendments, by 25 March of the previous year. Proposals were also asked outside the Riigikogu. The long time between the first reading and the second reading of the bill was due to the processing of the draft construction code and the draft planning act. The Committee on Economic Affairs was based on the principle that a construction code and a planning law were to be adopted before the above-mentioned law was adopted. The Planning Act was adopted by the Riigikogu at its meeting. On 28 January 2008 and the draft construction code had been sent to the Riigikogu for the third reading on 11 February with the proposal to put the draft to the final vote. This was done today, and this law has also been passed successfully. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the amendments to the draft and the referral of the draft to second reading. a meeting on 5 and 9 February. All amendments submitted for the second reading of the draft are proposals from the commission, drawn up on the basis of the wording received from the representative of the initiator, which were supported by the Commission on the basis of the reasons set out in the explanations of the amendments. A large part of the changes relate to the long time elapsed between the initiation of the draft and the subsequent procedure, during which changes occurred in the legislation which the implementing law amends (e.g. a completely new State fee law, which entered into force on 1 January), a large part of the proposals are of a harmonised or technical nature. In terms of content, they are mainly related to amendments to the Water Act concerning the regulation of building permits. Now I am talking about procedural decisions. The commission adopted the decision to send the draft law on the implementation of the construction code and planning law initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for the continuation of second reading. a By 11 February, i.e. today, the proposal to conclude the second reading. When the second reading is completed, we will be proposing a third reading on 18 February and putting the draft to the final vote of 572. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U200	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. However, we will examine the amendments that have been tabled on the draft 73. All the amendments have been proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs and are proposed to be fully taken into account. Let's take a look at them all. Amendment Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72 and 73. Everything is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and the proposal of the commission is to take them fully into account. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 572. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U201	The next item is the second reading of the draft Public Transport Act 812 initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs. I would like to present the chair of the Chair of the Economic Commission, Arto Asa.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U202	Ladies and gentlemen, As you probably remember, the new draft law on public transport was initiated by the Economic Commission itself, which was on 2 December last year. The first reading took place on 11 December. Six amendments were received from the Estonian Central Party Group by the deadline for submitting amendments. Several proposals for amending the draft text were contained in the opinion submitted to the Executive Committee of the Government of the Republic, which also supported the draft initiated by the Economic Commission. Some of the proposals were received from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, their proposals were also submitted by the Ministry of Education and Research, and certain proposals were formulated with specialists from the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Chancellor of Justice, the Estonian Taxi Leaders' Association, the Association of NGO Auto Companies and Taxify OÜ also came up with their referrals and suggestions. Some of the proposals were also made by the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. The text of the draft text was edited between two readings. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed sending the draft to second reading. a meeting of 29 January and 9 February. The authors of the draft were invited to the meeting on 29 January: Ain Tatter, Head of the Roads and Rail Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Adviser Rein Lätt, and Sander Salmu, Head of Transport and Traffic Services. Two other amendments were examined at the meeting on 9 February. Sander Salmu, Head of Transport and Traffic Services at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, who presented the content of the amendments and responded to the additional questions, was invited to the meeting of the Commission. The total number of amendments was very high, most of them being technical or conceptual. There's 54 of them, and I'm not gonna introduce them one by one. I will also pass on the procedural decisions and proposals of the commission. The Commission decided to send a draft of 812 to the plenary session for a second reading with a proposal to conclude the second reading. When the second reading is completed, we will have a proposal to send the draft to the third reading by 18 February with a proposal to put the draft to the final vote. All Commission decisions were taken in a consensual manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U203	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Arto Aas! Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. 54 amendments to the draft have been tabled, and we will review them. Amendments 1 to 5 are from the Economic Commission, the decision of the commission is fully taken into account; the sixth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Central Party; the decision of the commission is fully taken into account; the seventh is from the Economic Commission; the decision of the commission is fully taken into account; the eighth is from the Group of the Estonian Central Party; the proposal of the leading committee is not taken into account; the ninth is from the Economic Commission; the 10 is from the Economic Commission; the decision is fully taken into account; the 11 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the proposal of the leading committee is not taken into account; the 12 is from the Economic Commission; the decision of the leading committee is to take full account; the 13th amendment is from the Economic Commission; the decision of the leading committee is fully taken into account; the 14th amendment is from the Economic Commission; the decision of the leading committee is fully taken into account; the 15th amendment is from the Group of the Centre Party; the proposal of the Steering Commission is not taken into account; the 16 is from the Economic Commission; the 16th amendment is from the Economic Commission, the decision to take full account; the 17th amendment is from the Economic Commission. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 812. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U204	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Prison and probation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, please address the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Neeme Suur.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U205	Madam Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Prison and probation Act 804 was prepared for a second reading in the Committee on Legal Affairs on Tuesday, 27 January. Members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and representatives of the Ministry of Justice took part in the debate. The Commission was informed that no amendments to the draft had been tabled. The Commission therefore took its decisions unanimously. We propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 11 February, today, the second reading to be closed and the draft to be sent to third reading when the second reading is closed, on 18 February, and then put to the final vote. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U206	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Neeme the Great! Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 804. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U207	The 27th item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Name Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Kalle Jents, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U208	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed for the first time in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 19 January and for the second time on 9 February. On 19 January, a procedural decision was taken to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 28 January, when it was on the agenda. The first reading was completed. It was decided to send the draft to second reading when the first one was completed, by 11 February, i.e. today. On 9 February, it was decided that, once the second reading of the draft was completed, the draft would be sent to the third reading. No amendments to the draft have been received.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U209	Any questions? No questions for the waitress. Thank you, Kalle Jents! Is there a desire to negotiate? There is no wish for negotiation. There were no amendments to the draft; we cannot review them. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 831. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U210	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on the Implementation of the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic. Again, Kalle Jents, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, welcomes the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U211	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was at first reading on 21 January and the first reading was closed. No amendments to the draft were received. On 27 January, the Committee on Legal Affairs proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 11 February, that the second reading be closed and that, when the second reading is closed, the draft be sent to third reading by 18 February and that the draft be put to the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U212	There are no questions. Thank you, Kalle Jents! Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. No amendments have been tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 776. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U213	Today's 29th item is the second reading of the Act amending the Act on Assistant Police and Traffic Act 724 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Kalle Laaneti, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U214	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. This draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 22 September 2014, the first reading took place on 12 November and the deadline for submitting amendments was 26 November. Two amendments were tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared a second reading of the draft at a meeting attended by representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as well as by Mikhail Korb, member of the Central Party Group. At its meeting on 27 January, the Commission decided to propose three amendments to the draft. I will pass all the amendments quickly. The first was the proposal of the Centre Party Group, which envisaged tightening the educational requirement for an assistant police officer so that the assistant police officer should at least have secondary education. The Committee on Legal Affairs rejected the amendment tabled by the Central Party Group. Voting results: 1 in favour, 4 against, 0 abstentions. The second amendment was also from the Centre Party. Its purpose was to give an assistant police officer, under the direction of a police officer, the right to sober up a drunk person. The purpose of this proposal was also to enable the assistant police officer to apply the ban on stay on his own. The first half of this amendment was taken into account by the Commission, the second half was not. Amendment No 3 was from the Committee on Legal Affairs, which, taking into account the proposal of the Central Party Group, supplemented Article 16 (1) of the Act on Assistant Police by § 42 of the Law Enforcement Act and gave the Assistant Police Officer the right to take action, i.e. to sober a drunk person, at the direction of a police officer. Amendment 4 concerns the right of an assistant police officer to keep a special instrument issued to an auxiliary police officer or, exceptionally, a weapon permanently at the residence of the assistant police officer, with the permission of the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board or his authorised person. Amendment 5 concerned to a large extent the amendment of the Traffic Act. According to this proposal, the Police and Border Guard Board, as well as the Municipality and City Administration, will be able to apply the special measure provided for in § 53 of the Law Enforcement Act to mobile vehicles if the Police and Border Guard Board has moved the car to a safe haven or police authority, if the driver has been removed from the driving position or if there is no possibility of transferring the vehicle to the owner or holder on site and there is still a presumption under subsection 2 of the same section. The main problem was that very many car owners did not go after their car for various reasons and then parking fees were turned against the State, or the PBGB. The amendment supplements the law in such a way as to enable the transferred vehicle to be sold or destroyed in accordance with the procedure laid down in § 53 of the Law Enforcement Act. This right is granted to the PBA and the Municipality or City Government, as both have the right to move the vehicle to a safe-keeping facility or police authority in accordance with the rules and procedures laid down in § 92 of the Traffic Act, pursuant to § 1962 of the Traffic Act. What was decided? The proposals were to send the draft to the plenary by 11 February, to close the second reading and to send it to third reading when the second reading is closed and to put the draft to the final vote on 18 February 2015 (all decisions were consensual). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U215	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Five amendments to the draft have been tabled, and we will review them. Amendment 1 is from the Centre Party Group, the lead committee has not taken into account, the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 2 is from the Centre Party Group; the lead committee has partially taken account of it. Amendment 3 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Amendment 4 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Amendment 5 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 724. The amendments have been examined and the second reading closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U216	Agenda item 30 is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on Enforcement Procedure and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Enforcement Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Kalle Laaneti, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U217	The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft twice. Firstly, the debate took place on Tuesday 13 January 2015, when the draft debate remained incomplete, the Commission did not take decisions and decided to continue the procedure. The next debate took place on 20 January when there was no substantive debate and only procedural decisions were taken. These were as follows: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 11 February 2015 (by 4, with 0 abstentions), that the second reading be closed (by 4, with 0 abstentions), that the draft be sent to third reading when the second one is closed, that it be sent to 18 February (by 4, with 0 abstentions) and that the draft be put to the final vote (by 4, with 0 abstentions). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U218	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. There were no amendments to the draft, nor will we review them. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 750. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U219	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Prosecutor's Office and the Law on the Courts initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present a speech to Mr Valdo Randpere, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U220	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee at its meeting on 27 January. I am not going to take your time for very long because there were no substantive amendments to this draft. However, since the draft has been pending for a long time, a few technical amendments have been made. Instead of talking about 1 February, which is now in the past, we will talk about the draft in a few places from 1 April in the future. That is the whole amendment that has been made to the draft as compared to the first reading. However, after we had examined these matters, we in the Commission decided to send this draft on the plenary agenda by 11 February, i.e. today, we propose that the second reading be stopped and that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is completed, by 18 February. We have a proposal to put the draft to the final vote on 18 February. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U221	Thank you very much. Any questions? There are no questions. Any requests? There's no call. One amendment was tabled, and we will examine it. The amendment has been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 802. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U222	Today's 32nd item is the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Code of Enforcement Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 803. I would like to present a speech to Mr Valdo Randpere, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U223	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft received much more attention from the Committee on Legal Affairs and called for more work, as well as more amendments. But I'm not going to stop at everything in very detail because these materials are available. I am just saying that we discussed this draft first on 29 January and then we discussed it again on 9 February. The reason we did it this way was because on 29 January we actually focused on two points of debate for quite a long time. Firstly, the relatively revolutionary decision is that we have decided to create a register of maintenance debtors. On 29 January, we talked about perhaps creating a new register. Later, the Ministry of Justice examined the case and it became clear that the register of enforcement proceedings can also be adjusted so that enquiries can be made to find out whether a particular person has a livelihood and what its balance is. We decided to make this register public in the sense that anyone who identifies themselves with an ID card would be able to make inquiries there. The ID card is also necessary to enable the person who is asked to know who has been interested in him. But in principle, a register is created from which other potential creditors, such as banks, can control the existence of maintenance debts when assessing a person's credit assessment. Another important or substantive, let us even say that the revolutionary change that has been made between the first reading and the second reading is as follows. Now I have to thank a colleague who may not be in the hall right now, but I hope he's watching us in his room on TV. Mr Lang had come as an alternate member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and drew attention to something that, unfortunately, no one else had thought about. At first, we were going to talk about paying a living in a restricted way as a child's livelihood. But according to the logic of the family law, adult inability children are also paid for their livelihood, and this is paid to parents when they are unable to work. So, in this sense, the draft framework expanded. We did not start looking for conflict with the family law here, but now it is possible not only for children but also for adult children and parents who are unable to work, as is foreseen in the family law. All the sanctions that we see here, and all the national pressure we add for the recovery of maintenance debts, are now also valid for these categories. These were the most important and interesting points. After we had discussed them at our two meetings, we made the following procedural decisions. We decided to put this draft on the plenary agenda by 11 February, i.e. today (consensus decision). We proposed ending the second reading (consensus decision). The proposal is to send the draft to third reading when the second one is closed by 18 February 2015 (consensus decision) and put it to a final vote on that day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U224	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Valdo Randpere! Any requests? There's no call. Seven amendments to the draft have been tabled by the commission and all of them have been fully taken into account. Let's go through them one at a time. All of these are from the Committee on Legal Affairs, and they have been fully taken into account by the commission. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 803. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U225	Today's item No 33 is the second reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act and the Rescue Services Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 810. I would like a speech from Jüri Morozov, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U226	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The preparation of the second reading of draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act and the Rescue Services Act and related amendments to other laws took place at the Commission on 27 January. The first reading of this draft initiated by the Government of the Republic was on 21 January. The deadline for tabling amendments was set at 26 January and one amendment was tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. On 27 January, Mr Tauno Suurkivi, Deputy Director General of the Rescue Board, Mr Svetlana Master, Legal Adviser to the Human Resources Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Marju Aibast, Legal Adviser to the Department of Law Enforcement and Criminal Policy, and Mr Eero Svarval, Legal Adviser to the Department of Internal Security Policy participated in the work of the Commission. The Commission was sent a letter proposing amendments to the draft by the Workers' Trade Unions of State and Municipal Authorities. Mr Kalle Liivamägi, Chairman of Rotal, also attended the committee meeting. Since procedural decisions were also taken at this meeting of the Commission, one of which provided for the continuation of the debate in the Commission on 9 February, another meeting was held, which included an amendment. In total, the Commission proposed 15 amendments to this draft. Quickly and briefly, I will introduce the most important of them. Some of the amendments are technical; they concern changes in words or titles. However, perhaps it should be noted that Amendment 8 concerning the collection of information was raised as a problem. Paragraph 2 (14) of the draft law is supplemented by § 72 (21) of the Rescue Services Act: "In order to be employed as a rescue worker, the Rescue Agency has the right to ask the children of the rescue worker, the parents, the spouse, the partner in a relationship with him or her, or the family law, for his or her surname, personal identification number, in the absence of a personal identification code, for the date and place of birth and for the contact details of the surviving persons. ' Pursuant to § 72 (21) of the Rescue Services Act, the personal data listed in the provision are collected with a view to guaranteeing social security for rescue workers, for example in the event of the death of a rescue worker. According to the Data Protection Act, personal data may only be collected for the purpose of achieving defined legitimate purposes. The second amendment, which was discussed at length and seriously, was Amendment 10, which ultimately provides for the calculation of the working time of rescue workers, in particular night work. In the original text of the draft law, the wording that night work is included in the basic salary was deleted. So this will continue to take the form of separate accounts. I will say what decisions the Commission took at its meeting on 27 January. It was decided this way: we have proposals to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, i.e. by 11 February, to conclude the second reading, to send the draft to third reading when the second one is closed, by 18 February, and to put the draft to the final vote. These decisions were consensual. One of the decisions I had already presented, concerning the continuation of the draft debate on 9 February. That's all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U227	Thank you. There's a question. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U228	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, The fears of rescue officers that the extra costs for night work will disappear have now been removed by these changes. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U229	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U230	Thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. There are 15 amendments to the draft proposal from the lead committee and all of them have been taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 810. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U231	Our next item, No 34, is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act, the Consumer Protection Act and the Study Grants and Student Loan Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Jüri Morozov, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U232	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Draft 786 had been discussed by the Commission for the first time on 1 December last year, the second time we discussed it on 20 January and the third time on 27 January. a. As a result of this work, five amendments have been tabled to the draft, which I will briefly present. Amendment 1 is purely technical clarification. The title of the draft law is supplemented by the title of the law, which is amended by § 3. The substantive amendment is No 2, which relates to how consumer recovery costs are reimbursed. Here are the prices and ranges for which rates are to be applied. The purpose of the draft is to ensure that the recovery costs charged to the consumer are not unreasonable and do not constitute a potential source of additional revenue for the creditor. To this end, the draft provides for a fixed ceiling for the reimbursement of recovery costs. However, these ceilings, in particular the EUR 5 cap applicable during the duration of the contract, may prove to be too restrictive in a situation where the debt should also be reported to the joint and several debtor, such as the co-borrower or guarantor, as well as the guarantor. It is important to inform a single debtor or guarantor in order to also be aware of a consumer's default which may affect his rights and obligations in the future. For example, in the case of a guarantee, the principal debtor and the guarantor are joint and several debtors, and the creditor has the possibility to recover all debts either from the principal debtor or from the guarantor. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that, because of the maximum recovery costs imposed by the draft, the creditor does not fail to inform the consumer of the joint and several debtor or guarantor of the contract, simply because the maximum amount provided for by law does not include the costs of informing both the consumer and the joint and several debtor or guarantor. Paragraph 1132 (1) of the Law of Obligations Act specifies, therefore, that compensation for recovery costs will increase by EUR 5 per individual joint and several debtor or guarantor, i.e. in the same amount as the consumer may be required to reimburse the recovery costs during the contract. Paragraph 2 states separately that the reimbursement of recovery costs referred to in points 1 to 3 may be claimed on the basis of a contract with the consumer and, in addition, for each joint and several debtor or guarantor. There have been plenty of explanations on that, I believe. Amendment No 3 aims to amend section 1 (6) of the draft and to formulate it as follows: '§ 403 is supplemented by paragraph 21 as follows:'((21) The provisions of this section also apply to an agreement amending an earlier consumer credit agreement involving a deferred payment period or payment of additional fees. '' Amendment 4 requires that § 3 of the draft be supplemented by the following wording: '§ 3. Amendment of Study Grants and Student Loan Act. Paragraph 21 (3) of the Study Allowances and Student Loan Act is amended and worded as follows:'((3) On the amount paid by the State to the credit institution, the borrower, or his guarantor or pledgeer, if agreed in a new payment schedule, shall pay the State the interest shown in subsection 16 (5) of this Act on the outstanding balance of the loan paid by the State to the credit institution. '' The fifth amendment concerns the date of entry into force of the law, which is 1 October 2015. Procedural decisions are such that we have proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 11 February, we also have proposals to close the second reading and send the draft to the third reading when the second one is closed, by 18 February, and put the draft to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U233	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Jüri Morozov! Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Five amendments to the draft have been tabled by the lead committee, all of which have been fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 786. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U234	We're going to the next item. The first reading of the draft Act 833 on Accession to the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Criminal Law Regulation on Corruption initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The Bureau of the Riigikogu has received a request for the presentation of the Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padar instead of the previously notified Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair, Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padari!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U235	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has forwarded to the Riigikogu the draft Act on Accession to the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Criminal Law Regulation on Corruption. The purpose of the draft is to fully comply with the commitment made by the Republic of Estonia to join the Additional Protocol and to comply with the recommendation of the anti-corruption organisation GRECO. The Additional Protocol deals with the criminalisation of bribery by arbitrators and public judges. Taking bribes by both the arbitrators and the judges of the people, as well as bribeling them, is punishable under Estonian law. Accession to the Additional Protocol has meaning, in particular, in terms of international cooperation. In doing so, we will show in the international arena that we too have the deplorable nature of these activities and must be criminalised. The Additional Protocol complements the Convention on the Criminal Regulation of Corruption, of which the Republic of Estonia has been a member since 2001. The Additional Protocol to the Convention has been ratified or acceded to it by 36 States, and has been signed by 10 States. As we all know, the Estonian anti-corruption community is among the GRECO members. The Member States of GRECO shall periodically assess the implementation of cooperation on the prevention and punishment of corruption. As a result of the evaluation, GRECO will make recommendations to Member States, the implementation of which will have to be reported periodically. In previous years, GRECO has also advised Estonia to criminalise the active and passive bribery of arbitrators. In this context, GRECO also recommended the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Criminal Law Regulation on Corruption. In order to accede to the Additional Protocol, there is no need to amend national legislation as the criminalisation obligations contained therein have already been fulfilled. The active and passive bribery of both domestic and foreign arbitrators and the active and passive bribery of the judges of the people have been criminalised. Accession to the Additional Protocol to the Convention must be decided by law, as the Additional Protocol complements and thereby amends the Convention ratified by the Riigikogu. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U236	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padar! I would like to speak with Jüri Morozov, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U237	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft, the draft Act of Accession to the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Criminal Regulation on Corruption, number 833, was on the agenda of the Committee on Legal Affairs on Monday 26 January. Mr Andres Anvelt, Minister for Justice, and Mr Kristen Kanarik, Adviser to the Minister, presented the draft. I also thank the Minister for Agriculture, who has read to you here what the substance of this draft is. There was no major debate in the Commission on the draft. These matters are regulated in Estonia and there are no problems with joining this convention. The Commission therefore took the following procedural decisions: We had a proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda by today, 11 February (five members of the Commission voted in favour, there were no votes against or abstentions). Secondly, we have a proposal to conclude the first reading (5 in favour, no respondents, no abstentions). Thirdly, we propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 13 February (there were also 5 members of the Commission, no votes against or no abstentions). Fourthly, it was decided to send the draft to second reading when the first one was closed by 18 February (5 votes in favour, no votes against or abstentions). Fifthly, we propose that the draft be put to the final vote (5 votes in favour, no votes against or abstentions). Jüri Morozov was appointed rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U238	Thank you very much. Any questions? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 833. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft by 13 February at 13:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U239	The 36th item is the first reading of the draft Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the European Agency for the Operational Management of Large-scale IT Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. For a presentation, please, Minister of the Interior of the Chair Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U240	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On 24 June 2009, the European Commission submitted a draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing an Agency for the operational management of large-scale IT systems in the area of justice, freedom and security, to be referred to as the Agency. Problems in developing large-scale IT systems in the European Union were the driving force behind the establishment of the Agency. The Commission, the Member States and the European Parliament were convinced that effective and cost-effective IT development would require the creation of a specific competence centre. On 30 November 2009, the Justice and Home Affairs Council of the European Union launched a process to decide on the seat of the Agency, and interested Member States had to submit a request by 31 December 2009 at the latest. Two countries submitted their request: Estonia and France. As a result of the negotiations between the two countries, Estonia and France submitted a joint offer and on 12 September 2011, the General Affairs Council of the European Union adopted a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European Agency for the operational management of large-scale IT systems in the area of freedom, security and justice, located in Estonia and France. According to the joint offer, Tallinn has its headquarters, strategic planning, development and management, and Strasbourg has a data centre. Estonia's application was based on the principle that we want a European Union agency in Tallinn, which corresponds to the image of our country, and the location of this agency, eu-LISA with the European abbreviation, will help to strengthen this image in Tallinn. That is why we want to be a good home for the Agency. In its offer, Estonia promised to build office spaces for the Agency for up to a hundred people and to give them free of charge to the Agency and, under the same conditions, to provide temporary office space for the Agency until its permanent establishment, as well as to establish a European school in Tallinn and support the Agency with its support team in setting up the agency and in settling in. Estonia has fulfilled its promises regarding temporary office spaces, the European School and the support team. The issues relating to the permanent building are currently being resolved by means of a cooperation agreement between the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Riigi Kinnisvara AS. We have now presented to the Agency a number of possible headquarters locations, and in the near future the Agency will hopefully make its choice. For the construction of permanent holdings, the country's budget strategy for the years 2014 to 2017 provides for EUR 8.4 million. The main task for the establishment of the Agency was the operational management and development of the Schengen Information System SIS II, VIS and EURODAC systems, which are essential for the internal security of the European Union. In addition, the Agency has been entrusted with the task of monitoring IT research and innovation activities. The Agency's activities have been very successful and have already provided opportunities to reflect on the expansion of the Agency's activities. Estonia believes that it is in the interests of the European Union to develop a competence centre for IT systems capable of bringing together the public and private sectors and providing advice in policy making. This requires further development of the agency, which we consider to be the most appropriate body for this purpose. Specialising in IT at EU level would make it possible to significantly save costs across the European Union and to provide better and more stable ICT services and advice to the whole of the European Union. Certainly, a successful competence centre encourages the European Union institutions to develop and deploy cross-border digital services, which is in the interests of Estonia and of the European Union as a whole, of course. The location of the Agency's headquarters here in Tallinn will also contribute to exporting Estonian IT thinking to the institutions of the European Union. The first staff of the Agency started their work in July and August 2012 and the selected Director-General started work at the end of 2012. Currently more than 45 people work at Tallinn's headquarters, but there is definitely growth potential here. The basis for the Agency's action in Estonia, however, is the headquarters agreement currently on the table of Parliament. Such an agreement with the host country is provided for in the Basic Regulation for the establishment of the Agency and such agreements exist in essence in all agencies of the European Union. Negotiations on the text of the Headquarters Agreement started already in December 2011, when the European Commission presented its draft agreement to Estonia. Estonia participated in the negotiations by a working group set up by the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Finance and State Real Estate AS. The purpose of the agreement is to regulate the status of the Agency, the immunity and privileges granted to the Agency and its staff and to lay down the principles of cooperation between the Agency and the Estonian authorities. The Agency and its staff shall be given priority and immunity for the independent performance of their tasks. Unlike ordinary diplomatic privileges and immunities, the interest of the parties to the agreement is not to respect the principle of reciprocity, but to act independently, effectively and without fear of intervention. I would like to point out here that immunity is only valid if the staff of the Agency perform their duties. The major discussions during the negotiations were on Article 12 (3) of the Agreement concerning the Agency's staff. In many countries, according to similar agreements, the employees of the Agency will be exempt from VAT for the first years after taking up employment, which the Estonian Government did not agree to. At the same time, we had to think about how to make working in the office more attractive, especially in terms of competition in the IT field. As a compromise, we found it reasonable to pay one-off compensation to the Executive Director of the Agency and to the permanent staff of the Agency, who are not permanent residents of Estonia, in order to facilitate their establishment in Estonia. The Government of the Republic approved the agreement on your tables on 11 December 2014 and the agreement was signed in Tallinn on 19 December 2014. That's what I've been reporting. Of course, I hope that Parliament will support this ratification process so that the seat of the European Union's IT Agency, eu-LISA, is confirmed in Tallinn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U241	Thank you. You've also been asked a question. Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U242	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Maybe you know a little bit about the history of this great profession. What's her name so grand and festive?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U243	Thank you. That name has arisen because of his obligations. Two systems, VIS and EURODAC, are pan-European. Similarly, the rights related to the freedom of persons are clearly eu-LISA's main task, including the Schengen Information System and the Visa Information System. In other words, it includes how the European Union is coming and what the rules of movement in the European Union are. The free movement of persons is, of course, one of the fundamental principles of the European Union. So a great deal of this was connected to the existing systems, but I very much hope that behind such a grand name was the European Commission's desire to look to the future. We have repeatedly signalled to the European Commission that eu-LISA has the potential to grow and take over other IT systems across the European Union so far, which could be coordinated in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U244	Any more questions? It's all clear, there's no more questions. Thank you very much, Minister Hanno Pevkur. For a co-report, Mr Andre Sepa, Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U245	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, there are few in the Chamber! You have before you a draft law of 839 with a short content: ratify the attached Headquarters Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the European Agency for the Operational Management of Large-scale IT Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice, signed on 19 December 2014. It should be mentioned that this sounding and pathological name comes from the treaties of the European Union, which have sent us all the time we have been in the European Union. As the Minister of the Interior explained, this name is also due to the requirements of the Schengen area. The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed this issue at its meeting on 26 January. Mr Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, and Mr Piret Lillevälja, Deputy Director of European Union Affairs at the State Chancellery took part in the meeting of the Commission. The Minister of the Interior presented in detail the content of the Association Agreement and its objectives and answered questions from the members of the Commission. These mainly concerned the obligations of the Estonian state, the specifications of the contract are an external agreement and the Commission was interested in the differences compared to other similar agreements , as well as in the compensation provided to the employees of the agency. The Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously took procedural decisions. Firstly, we decided to send a draft of 839 on the plenary agenda for first reading by Wednesday, 11 February. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading of the draft. Secondly, we have a proposal to the Riigikogu Board to set the deadline for submitting amendments on Friday 13 February at 4 p.m. When the first reading of the draft is completed, we have a proposal to send the draft to second reading by Wednesday 18 February. By decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Andre Sepp, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, was appointed rapporteur for the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U246	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 839. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 4 p.m. on 13 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U247	Today's last item, No 37, is the first reading of the draft law on ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol initiated by the Government of the Republic, 838. Ms Mati Raidma, Minister for the Environment of the Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U248	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! International issues are still on the agenda. As a final point, I have the honour to present to you the draft law on the ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol prepared at the Ministry of the Environment, which aims to ratify the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol. Estonia ratified the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in 2002. In December 2012, a conference was held in Doha, where amendments to the Kyoto Protocol were adopted. The objective of the Kyoto Protocol and the Doha Amendment is to combat global warming. The Doha Amendment introduced the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol for the years 2013 to 2020. It sets legally binding greenhouse gas emission reduction targets for Kyoto States, including Estonia. For the second period of the Kyoto Protocol, 38 parties made a legally binding commitment. The European Union and its Member States have set a target of a 20% reduction in the average greenhouse gas emissions in the years 2013 to 2020. The European Union, its Member States and Iceland have agreed to jointly fulfil their obligations. The EU and its Member States' emission reduction commitments are based on the EU climate and energy package adopted in 2009 up to 2020. As the emission reduction commitments of the European Union and its Member States are based on the climate and energy package already in force in the European Union, the ratification of the Doha Amendment does not entail an additional emission reduction obligation in Estonia and thus does not involve any additional obligations for companies or the state. In order for the Doha Amendment to enter into force, three-quarters of the 192 Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, or 144, will have to approve the amendment. When this change enters into force exactly, it is not possible to say that 23 countries had approved it by the end of 2014. The European Union and its Member States shall deposit the instruments of agreement at the same time after the ratification procedures and this must happen in good time before the Paris climate conference, which will take place in December 2015. Honourable Riigikogu, I ask you to support the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U249	Thank you very much for your presentation. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions, it's clear. I would like to present the chair to Mr Erki Noole, vice-chairman of the Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U250	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment discussed the draft law on ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol on 26 January 838. The Environment Committee was presented by Jörgen Talkop, Head of Climate and Radiation Department of the Ministry of the Environment, and advisor Anne Mändmets. As the Minister said earlier, the aim of the Kyoto Protocol and the Doha Amendment is to combat global warming. The ratification of the Doha Amendment does not entail an additional obligation for Estonia to reduce emissions, as the EU's and its Member States' emission reduction commitments are based on the climate and energy package already adopted in the European Union in 2009. The minister gave a thorough overview of the bill, and I will not go over it again. I will mention some of the questions that were asked in the Commission by representatives of the ministry. The Minister mentioned here too that the Kyoto Protocol has 192 participants and 144 of them have to approve this protocol. In the Commission, there was a question of what will happen to the one-quarter who does not agree to ratify the protocol. Unfortunately or fortunately, this one-quarter must accept this agreement. There was no very big debate on this bill. I repeat, above all, that there will be no additional responsibilities for Estonia. Finally, I come to procedural decisions. The Commission proposed to send a draft of 838 to the plenary session of the Riigikogu by 11 February (this was a consensual decision), to finish the first reading of the draft (consensual decision) and to set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft by 13 February (also a consensual decision). When the first reading of the draft is closed, we have a proposal to send the draft for second reading to the Riigikogu's plenary session by 18 February (consensus decision) and to put the draft to the final vote (consensus decision). These were the decisions of the Committee on the Environment and a brief overview of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U251	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U252	Thank you. Dear waitress, thank you for a meaningful and sympathetic presentation. My question may be organisational. Can you explain how this happened so suddenly that this bill is exactly what we have to deal with in the last week? What made this choice of time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U253	Thank you. It was not discussed in the Commission why it is so urgent, but the Member States should ratify this amendment in their parliaments before the end of this year. This bill is probably going to be processed this spring before this conference takes place in Paris. I guess that's where it came from. Of course, if we look at the functioning of the Riigikogu, we will see that the new formation will certainly also be able to process this draft nicely. However, since these documents were already completed by the Ministry and this decision does not impose an additional burden on the Estonian state, it is not very difficult to process this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-11_U254	Any other specific questions? No further questions. Thank you, Erki Arrow! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 838. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 12 noon on 13 February. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed and the agenda has been exhausted. I wish everyone a nice evening. Closure of the sitting at 6.23 p.m.
