ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 53 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Public Administration Arto Aas and Minister of Finance Sven Sester participate in Question Time. Last day, seven members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask the question. Therefore, today I am giving two additional questions to both the questioners and other members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U2	Let's get started. The first questioner is Mart Helme and the question is for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! This is about protecting our borders. We all know that in very many countries the migration crisis has forced legislators and governments to take decisions to strengthen border surveillance and to further control border crossings. In the case of Estonia, it has been said so far that we are adopting the situation on a voluntary basis, but it cannot be ruled out that at some point we may also be out of control. I therefore have the question of how much resources Estonia now has, both human and financial resources, and not just for a few days, but for a longer period, in order to restore temporary border control.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U4	Thank you. If you mean border controls at the internal borders of the European Union, in Estonian terms between Estonia and Latvia, and between Estonia and Finland, before we even have to discuss the need to restore it, we should still consider very seriously whether this is necessary in the current situation. The free movement of people is a very important freedom. You may well remember the time when a special permit was needed to go from Estonia to Finland. I still remember the time when two weeks had to wait for a visa at the embassy on Liivalaia Street to go to Finland. Now just buy a boat ticket and go back and forth, the same way in Latvia and so up to Portugal. These freedoms have given the people of Estonia a great deal, they have also given the people of Finland and the people of Latvia, they have given much throughout Europe. So to say that we would like to restrict this freedom, let's say we have to measure it nine times before we say it. However, if the security situation in a particular country so requires, of course there must be a willingness to temporarily re-establish border controls. Estonia also has this capacity. So far, during our Schengen membership, we have only re-established border controls twice: one time when there was a meeting of NATO Foreign Ministers, and the other time when President Barack Obama visited Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U5	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister! You reminded me of the distant Soviet era. I remember driving from Moscow Airport to Germany in 1990 and hid German marks in my underwear to shop there. So I remember. However, the content of the question was not that. The content of the question was what is Estonia's ability to restore border control for a longer period of time, not for a few days. We do not assume directly that tomorrow the masses of immigrants will arrive at our borders from somewhere in Central Europe, where they have come from North Africa or the Middle East, but the country's task is to be prepared for such situations. I therefore ask once again what are our financial and human resources, so that we can carry it out, not for a day or two, as in the case of a visit by NATO ministers or the President of the United States, but for an estimated period of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U7	Thank you. No, I understood your question. I just wanted to stress in my reply that this question is very hypothetical. And my argument is that we do not really want Europe, between the countries of the European Union, to have borders again and that people should use a visa to move from one country to another. And keep it from moving from one country to another to smuggle more German marks. Those times could be over forever. But since you wanted a specific answer to a specific question, we are taking this hypothetical situation, where it would really be necessary to restore the border between Estonia and Latvia and between Estonia and Finland. It would cost nearly EUR 100 million, and it would take six months for the circa to complete it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U8	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister! I have noticed that our current government thinks relatively little or rarely with its head. Everything usually happens as Brussels says. And when Angela Merkel says, for example, that this border control must be introduced from 1 December, I would like to ask you if we have enough border guards for that. Have you thought about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U10	Thank you. Your idea of how the decision-making process is taking place in Brussels is clearly incorrect. The meetings of the Councils attended by the Heads of Government of all the countries of the European Union shall be jointly decided. And on quite a number of occasions, both recently and in the last 11 years, when Estonia has been a member of the European Union, Estonia has played a crucial role in shaping these final decisions. We have just as much time to make decisions as any other Member State can. And when a decision is taken in Brussels, it must be understood that it is our joint decision, the decision of the 28 Member States, and not far away from the directors who are writing us something. Brussels is not Moscow and the European Union is a very democratic union of states. That's one. A decision coming from Brussels or being taken jointly in Brussels to completely eliminate Schengen and restore borders between all Schengen Member States, I do not see it coming. Not only Estonia, but also very many other European countries consider the free movement of people, which of course also involves the free movement of goods, the possibility of entrepreneurship and tourism and the opportunity to study in other countries to be very important. We remember there were 12 or 15 years ago and there were those who said there was a border and Eastern Europe had to be on the other side of the border. Those times will be over forever throughout Europe today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U11	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U12	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Prime Minister! We want a specific answer to a specific question each time, but almost never, unfortunately, will we. You said here that we have a hypothetical problem. We don't have a hypothetical problem, look at the Hungarian border, look at the Croatian, Austrian and German borders. I'm asking you something else, but I'd also like to hear from you whether you really think Schengen is working right now. But from this debate whether or not we want to re-establish border controls. If we are talking here from the perspective of different parties, then yes, Conservative People's Party would certainly like the Estonian border to be under control and we, as an Estonian state, should be ready to stop them if the hordes of illegals move through Central Europe across our Finland or Sweden. How much can Estonia currently put people on the border to man the southern border?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U13	Thank you. However, I will stick to the fact that the question you have raised is hypothetical, because it is not possible to draw an unambiguous parallel between, for example, the external border of Hungary and the border between Estonia and Latvia. When we look at the map of Europe, we understand why. Estonia is in northeastern Europe, the flows of refugees come from the south, and before we can talk about someone coming to Estonia, they have to go through a number of countries. We also know very well that Estonia has not yet remained on these crossroads throughout this period. So to speculate on how many officers of the Police and Border Guard Board are currently in reserve, who will be used to restore borders, is inappropriate because we are not going to re-establish borders for either Finland or Latvia. We have one clear border, which we are very closely guarded by, and that is the external border of Schengen. This is the border between Estonia and Russia. On the border between Estonia and Russia, the circa employs 700 people, and next year we will invest more than 20 million euros in order for these 700 people to have the most modern possible working environment and that this limit as a whole really should.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U14	Two additional questions have been asked, and I will finish addressing this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U15	The next question is from Priit Toobal to Minister of State Administration Arto Asa. Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. In the coming years, the Government of the Republic is planning quite large redundancies of state-paid workers in proportion to the decline in the working age population. And there has been talk of quotas given to ministries and state companies and authorities, which have left the impression of quite mechanical distribution. Perhaps you will use your first two minutes to talk about how these quotas came about and what is behind these quotas. What is the content of these quotas?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U17	Thank you, good questioner! I'd love to. As most people probably know, the public sector generally tends to expand. And if the state's top management does not intervene decisively, this natural growth will be encoded in the public sector. While we also asked the ministries and their administration for forecasts of the number of employees this spring, oh surprise, most planned the growth of the workforce. At the same time, we know that the Estonian population will rather decline and grow older, and the burden on taxpayers will be increasing every year. These two trends contradict each other. It was therefore clear that a decision must be made that the state, too, must reduce the number of employees and the number of employees of the state which we can control more precisely, i.e. the central government. It is wise to do so now that the Estonian economy is in a relatively good position, if unemployment is not high and these people are certainly well-used in the private sector. It is such a philosophical and principled approach. What have we been doing this summer? The figures from these management areas have been analysed, based on the reforms and changes made over the last five years, analysed the growth of the workforce over the last five years and, accordingly, the differentiated proposal for administrative areas. In those areas where more changes and structural reforms have been made (e.g. the Tax and Customs Board), the cut foreseen is now smaller, and in those areas where there has been rather lush growth, a slightly larger cut is foreseen for future periods.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U18	Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U19	Thank you very much for your previous answer. While more has been said about these redundancies among officials in the public and in the media, I know that teachers and doctors, for example, are also afraid. Is and how much does this redundancy plan affect teachers and doctors in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U20	Thank you. Our decision, which was debated at length in the study, and the discussion was very heated, because let us be honest, all ministers are standing up for their field, each area feels that it is special, certainly did not fall lightly or in any way superficially. The content of this decision was that indicative numbers were agreed, the order of magnitudes of how many people would have to pull together in some area. But this decision, which is precisely concentrated, when and how, is left up to all the sectoral leaders themselves. The Minister of State Administration and the Ministry of Finance have not yet written this year that we are now bringing this person together in this place. This is actually up to the heads of the institution, because let's face it, they have the most information for that. Information has come from the Ministry of Social Affairs that they are certainly not going to lay off doctors; they do not want to concentrate nurses either; they are actually talking about support services throughout. We have a lot of cafes on the state payroll, leme scoop movers, wardrobe holders, IT employees, accountants, all those who offer support services. Yes, these services are absolutely necessary to provide the basic service, but they can be done more effectively. This percentage of cut is certainly currently within such limits that, above all, support services can be focused, and in very many areas, in most areas, even in all areas, it is a realistic plan. In most organisations, also in the health sector, the proportion of support services providers is around 20%. These are actually thousands of people, so there is definitely room to do your job more effectively. And we want these changes to be substantive, not just one-off mechanical cuts.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U21	Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U22	Thank you. The Prime Minister sitting next to you has said that all those who are paid by the state and are doing their job with their hearts need not be afraid that they will have a wave of lay-off or a notice of lay-off. At the same time, the government plans to bring together quite several hundred people who are paid by the state. So does the public sector really work so much for people who do not work with their hearts and slobs?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U23	Yes, the Prime Minister had such a beautiful fictional expression. I believe that most people do their job with their hearts, but it is natural that those who may not be ready for change must leave. And actually, let's be honest, in most organizations, we have a staff change of about 10% a year. There is a difference between organisations and sectors, but 51⁄20% of the workforce will definitely change over the year. And now that you think that our goal is to pull together 1.5% of the workforce, it actually means that in some months we could just leave the recruitment of new people and reorganize the work. The central government has a total of 56000 employees, and next year's plan for 750 fewer people is ambitious but feasible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U24	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Yes, we are talking here about the concentration of the public sector, but it does not go past our third sector either. Yesterday, I spoke to Eha Reitelmann, the representative of the County Women's Association, for a very long time. They have created a very effective system of women's shelters and a very effective counselling centre. And now, when they looked at the draft budget for next year, they saw that there would no longer be financial support for their activities. What can you say?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U26	Thank you. I think it would be more appropriate to put this question to the minister concerned. This is a question of budgetary expenditure rather than a question of staff cuts. Our plans for cuts still concern the central government. This includes officials and state earners, not the third sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U27	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U28	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Mr. Minister! I liked your logic that, as the number of people of working age, working capacity or working capacity has decreased, officials could also be drawn down very right. However, doesn't this also concern senior officials? The number of ministers in Estonia has increased recently. There are two ministers in some ministries, but I have not seen it significantly improve the ministry's work. Take, for example, the Ministry of Social Affairs, which has two ministers, but it has not increased the wealth of pensioners and reduced the queues for doctors. Is it not appropriate, for example, to bring together some ministerial positions, and has the government discussed this? All the more so, if there are two ministers, there are two cars, two drivers, two secretaries. So there's plenty of costs here and there's plenty you can minimize.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U29	Thank you. I guess all ministries have to look inside, and it would be quite surprising if some ministry would propose that we concentrate the ministerial seat. This cannot be ruled out, this freedom exists in the ministries. However, I think that if a particular minister can focus on his own field and still offer better solutions there, this ministerial position has justified itself. After all, we are talking about a state budget of EUR 8.9 billion, and one minister's salary is very small. Not all costs have to be double. I don't use a driver every day, and Mr. Sester and I share a secretary and other support services. This cost is not so high and would rather look at the results of the work. They'll probably be out in a couple of years. But, of course, if there's a different government, different times, then there's a different composition of the government. After all, there are also proposals that the Riigikogu should be smaller so that there could be 81 members here, for example. It would be a much bigger cut if the government could ever do it. So these thoughts are welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U30	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U31	The next question is to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas and is presented by Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! On 25 August, the Research and Development Council approved a report prepared by one of your council members on the network and activities of Estonian research institutions, higher education institutions and universities of applied sciences. This report also gave a number of very specific recommendations. Could you please tell us which of these 21 recommendations are those that we should address very quickly or which the government intends to address quickly in order to preserve the sustainability of Estonian science and higher education?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U33	Thank you. This is a very correct question on a very right and important subject. Just yesterday, your penguin told me that the government wasn't doing much, it was ticking. I am pleased that you are much better informed and found one topic where we really want to discuss, with the involvement of the public, how one sector can be made better in a sustainable way. And we admit that these proposals, which have been made in this report, are not a Gunnar Oki individual report. It is based on the opinion of more than 30 people, all of whom have been interviewed. In an attempt now to briefly state which recommendations to implement from this point of view, I would actually begin with the fact that, in the interests of factual accuracy, it must be said that this report has not yet been approved by the Scientific and Development Council. We took note of this and decided to submit it to the public consultation. We want research institutions, companies, organisations, also the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu and many others to contribute to all these recommendations in line-to-line and letter-to-letter terms, to look for places where we do not have a joint section, and then to decide jointly which recommendations to implement. But throughout the world, these recommendations relate to how to increase the international competitiveness of Estonian higher education and science and how to ensure that the higher education diploma awarded in Estonia is as highly valued as possible in the world. So I'm going to sum it up with two sentences.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U34	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! One of the major recommendations that attracted more attention is the consolidation of research institutions, higher education institutions and also universities of applied sciences into three centres. Please tell me whether this proposal is behind the fact that, as we know, financing our research and higher education will reduce the share of the Structural Funds by about 20%, or whether it is still a driving force for competitiveness. And how do you see that such consolidation into the three centres could be good for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U36	Thank you. The most important thing, in my opinion, is that the quality of these institutions is at the level that we can really talk about being in international competition, including being in top international competition in certain disciplines. Indeed, this report provides that different research institutions could, through closer cooperation, networking or accession, whatever they should call it, whatever it looks like in practice ultimately to consolidate in order for this capacity to be greater. I think it is a little early today to say once and for all how many of these centres should be or whether a particular research organisation should be outside these centres. This is actually one of the issues that we want to discuss with the public. After all, it would be inappropriate if we started a public debate and, at the same time, the government or the Prime Minister would already have fossilised convictions on one issue or another. I myself have spoken to a number of experts in the field, and the trend towards consolidation is also considered right. There are certain details, however, in which it must be acknowledged that there are very clear differences of opinion in society, and I do not find it any bad at all that we have such differences of opinion. On the contrary, it would be very strange if all but the head of such a large vision document were nodded. This would show that there are no alternative opinions in society at all. So I hope there will be a very serious debate. I hope that people will think along very substantially and will also think about whether and where this consolidation will benefit us. As a trend, I'll find it definitely necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U37	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U38	President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! My question gets a little more detailed than the question of the benchmate. The possible association of the Estonian Language Institute with the University of Tartu has attracted the attention of the public, and this report generally advises us to look for examples from Denmark. It is known, however, that the Danish language institute was once merged with the university and then divorced again. How do you feel about the possible association of EKI with the University of Tartu? Has the government already developed a position on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U39	Thank you. As has been said, this report, which was drawn up for the Scientific and Development Council, is now a phase of public debate. And it would be very inappropriate if, in the run-up to, or during, public debate, the government were to shape rigid positions. I understand perfectly the discussion that has emerged in society around the Institute of the Estonian Language. In my opinion, all these arguments that have arisen must be seriously considered. We should not rule out some very small research institutions being able to operate completely independently. At the same time, we should not only bury in the bud, for emotional reasons, those possible positive arguments that would be in the process of consolidation. The most important thing for me is that the main functions of the Institute of the Estonian Language are those related to the continued beauty of the language that we all use together and love warmly, and that it is used correctly so that the language is definitely fulfilled. There can be no doubt about that. The first sentences of the Estonian Constitution speak of Estonian language and culture as the fundamentals of our self-determination. Of course, there must also be scientific capasite in Estonia in order to deal with the Estonian language. But what exactly is the organisational form in which the Director's office has these are issues over which professionals in the field and the general public can debate. And when this debate has reached the point where choices need to be made, the government is ready.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U40	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U41	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Prime Minister! I wanted to get to that language we all loved so much. There has been much talk in Oki's report, and you yourself have been talking about achieving competitiveness. And in order to achieve this, it has been stressed that doctoral studies and, in fact, a large part of higher education should be transferred to English. You yourself also referred to the Preamble of our Constitution and to the fact that the real idea of the Estonian state is to restore Estonian culture and education, including higher education, also to ensure doctoral studies in Estonian. Otherwise, the question arises as to what is our idea or interest if a Swedish or German professor gives an Estonian person an education in English so that he or she would then go to work in Finland. Well, then we could end this bull for our own money, let the Finns educate. If there is now a situation where achieving international competitiveness is contrary to the fundamental principles of our constitution, do you agree with me that we should, above all, make sure that doctoral studies in Estonian are in a privileged position in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U42	Thank you. The fact that we hold the Estonian language, that we develop the Estonian language, and that we work together to ensure that the Estonian language is preserved does not preclude the fact that we know other languages. In Estonia, if English is already taught in kindergarten, I think it is very positive. This, in my opinion, is no threat to the Estonian language as our mother tongue. The world is much wider than it is a little more than 45,000 square kilometres, where the language is spoken in Estonian. Of course, we want our future generation to be ready to do great things around the world. Today, in a press publication, you can read how men much younger than me have been able to see the world bigger because they have studied in top schools in the world, managed to create a company that has conquered the world's top in global business. I believe that we want such people to come to Estonia more and more and more. And if it is necessary to pass part of the studio in English, I will personally see the Estonian language as not a threat to our native language. In any case, knowledge of English is positive and necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U43	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U44	The next question is for Finance Minister Sven Sester. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U45	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Minister! We have achieved the understanding, both in your own presentation at the Commission and through the public, that during the summer, the confidence of entrepreneurs in the economy and the confidence of consumers have diminished in Estonia. At the same time, this trend of decline is at odds with the trend of our neighbours, where confidence is either the same or even rising slightly. Can you explain what this reduction is about? And do you agree that this reduction is at least partly caused by tax increases in Estonia in the spring or early summer?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U46	Thank you, good questioner! I can explain, and I want to explain. Today, we are looking at the index that has been asked of businesses and consumers. This is a subjective assessment, which is certainly important to analysts, as it gives an indication of how the interviewees feel about their vision for the future. The clear trend in 2015 has indeed been questioned, and it has been noted that their economic confidence has diminished. I'll tell you the happy news right now. In particular, we have the latest data of July, August and now the last data of September, and they show an increase in this index for three months in a row, i.e. trust has clearly recovered. This is definitely the positive side. But now, when it comes to the content that, at some point in time, people feel that their confidence or confidence is being reduced, it can mostly be associated more with a weaker external environment in 2015. Today, in 2015, our partners' economic growth will be 0.8% as a weighted average. If we look at 2014, it was 1.3%, and in 2016, or next year, it is expected to be 1.6%. And here several countries play an important role. One side is Russia, which is deeply down today, with an economic growth of 4.5%. And there is also geopolitical uncertainty that clearly affects consumers emotionally. The other side is the Finnish economy, as well as our very clear partner, who has a direct link with Estonian consumers. And this is also the case for Latvia and Lithuania, for example, why their confidence has been higher: Finland has not had as much impact on them as it has on Estonia in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U47	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U48	Thank you very much. I still couldn't get an answer to the other side of my question. Do you at least admit that our spring tax debate played a role in this loss of confidence?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U49	Thank you. I don't think so. If we look at another indicator, which is consumption, our tax receipts from consumption, then you note that the whole of this year's 'total' may have been said a lot, but a very important part of this year's economic growth is coming from domestic consumption, which shows that consumer security still remains high. Look, this is an important component of our consumer confidence. And if you start thinking about whether a loss of confidence could also be an indication of the state budget, I say that a loss of confidence does not yet exist, but if consumption decisions are to change, then we should already sense the danger in it. So now, in 2015, we see clearly that domestic consumption is at its peak. We see that wages are rising. What we see is that businesses are employing more and more people, and the wages of these people are rising and rising, by the way, at the expense of productivity. So we see that fiscal policy decisions have tended to favour wage increases, lower labour taxes and reduce unemployment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U50	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U51	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Finance! Perhaps you will also have something to say to local authorities specifically, many of whom will certainly follow today's briefing, which could increase their confidence in 2016.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U52	Thank you. For local governments, there is certainly one important indication, their "input" by the state, financial support, that they receive a share of the income of each employee. In this example, the level of income tax they receive is 11.6%. And it is certainly important that, when we look at the levels before the crisis, we now see a situation where the state pays or, say, the local government receives EUR 145 million more from the state budget in absolute terms than from the best position before the crisis. So if we look at absolute numbers, we can say today that the financial capacity of local authorities has clearly grown and is growing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U53	Maire Aunaste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U54	President-in-Office of the Council. I do not know who among the three people who are giving answers today should actually answer this question, but I think that the people of Estonia are very interested. Can their confidence suffer because hundreds and hundreds of refugees come here? So a different way of expressing the question would be whether an Estonian person should be afraid that something would be taken away from him because of refugees arriving here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U55	Thank you. When asked about the identity of economic confidence, it is not specified in the case of a person who senses a loss of confidence or an increase in confidence that this is due to the fact that a particular sector of the economy has gone down, whether it is due to the fact that a particular job close to his home is closed. That's what a person's overall subjective assessment is looking forward. It must be difficult to say for one person or another, which makes him feel less confident or more confident. As I said, in the last three months, confidence has increased. There are certainly different internal characteristics and inner senses for different people, too, why they think when the interviewer asks them, why their confidence has increased or diminished. So I would like to leave here an opportunity for those who are interviewed to say according to their inner conviction, which is why they will then shape their vision of the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U56	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U57	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U58	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! As we know, regional elections were held in Catalonia, where political forces or their coalition in favour of Catalonia's independence won. The situation is quite a political thing to chew on both Spanish national and European Union Member States. My question is what is the position of the Estonian government and the head of government today on the issue of the independence of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U59	Thank you, good questioner! It is good practice that the Heads of Government do not evaluate the results of elections in other countries or internal policies in general. I therefore hope that you will understand if I, too, avoid these assessments today. However, I can say that I trust Spain as a rule of law, and I am convinced that Spain can also solve these issues internally according to the rule of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U60	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U61	Thank you. However, in foreign policy or, let's say, global politics is an important principle, namely the principle of the right to self-determination of peoples. And this question will certainly come to the table of the Estonian Government once again. Is today's government and head of government prepared to follow this noble principle of self-determination of peoples on the question of the independence of Catalonia, or rather is it planned to follow the path of pragmatic politics? As we know, this principle of the right to self-determination of peoples is partly due to the existence of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U62	Thank you. As I said, it is not good practice to comment on the internal policies of other countries. An even slippery way would be to start speculating about what Estonia's position would be if one or the other event were to take place. Therefore, I ask you to understand if I avoid these speculations.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U63	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U64	Thank you. I'm gonna keep asking you the same question. The point is that the current Catalonia movement is amazingly similar to what took place in Estonia a quarter of a century ago, when the big countries warned us at least privately, through high-level men, not to rock Gorbachev's boat. I fully understand that we, too, cannot make any diplomatic move that could, even indirectly, harm our NATO ally Spain, and that is correct. However, in Catalonia there is now such a delicate moment, where some praise the European Union, some think that it may turn their backs on them. 25 years ago, the big countries that did not allow us to rock the Gorbachev boat said that we still want to develop economic relations, cultural relations with you and keep all the doors open. In parallel to this, would you think that the Estonian Government could also have a benevolent plan, at least in the sense of promoting cultural and economic affairs with Catalonia and keeping the doors open to the fact that the European Union still exists?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U65	Thank you. I think that this parallel has not been very successful because Estonia was occupied at the time, while Spain is a democratic rule of law. Therefore, in my opinion, it would be a very slippery way to draw these equal signs here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U66	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U67	Thank you. Prime Minister! The independence of Catalonia may be a precedent , of course, this is now the subject of speculation, followed by a series of other similar independences: the independence of Scotland, why not the independence of the Basque Country in Spain, the division of Belgium, maybe something else. Here's my question. I understand that official rhetoric must certainly be very restrained, but shouldn't the government, however, seriously think about developing certain standard policies and positions already in case Catalonia's independence becomes true, so that in other cases we can put on a matrix?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U68	Thank you, good questioner! For the second time today, you are forcing the Prime Minister, and you, of course, as a Member of Parliament, are entitled to go on a slippery path and shape positions in case one or the other event occurs. But I hope you will understand when I say that it is a very slippery way to involve such speculations and to pre-empt opinions on certain specific issues, and it is worth avoiding. This actually concerns both your questions today, both what you have asked about border controls and what you have now asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U69	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U70	The next question is for Finance Minister Sven Sester. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U71	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. The state budget for next year is set at EUR 29,7 million for the storage of public local roads. The explanatory memorandum indicates that last year the amount was only EUR 24.7 million. Last year, however, municipalities actually received EUR 28 million in local road storage, of which EUR 3.3 million was project-based support. I ask you, Mr Minister, if next year we can hope that there will be something additional to this $29.7 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U72	Thank you for a good question. I start with the fact that the state has always provided targeted additional support for local roads where possible. And why do I say "additional allowances"? The law also states that the cost of local roads is generally covered by the local road budget and the money allocated from the state budget for additional savings must be seen as an additional contribution to the municipality's basic income. That's the first half of it. If we look back in history, we will see that the support given by the state was the largest just before the crisis in the order of 40.5 million. When the crisis came, subsidies fell almost four times. It was already 11 million in 2009, i.e. 11,4 and 11,4. This is almost a quadruple fall in support. Now this support for local authorities has increased quietly but firmly. And just like you said, we're planning $29.7 million next year. This is, by its nature, historically the largest support for local authorities after 2008, sharing it equally on the level of investment in 2007 before the peak. And in addition to the direct payments that go to local authorities, there are, of course, large trunks to which the state also directs additional money. So looking at the state's contribution, it can be said that it has increased from year to year and this trend will continue in 2016.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U73	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U74	Thank you, Minister. A total of 59 million euros was requested by the Municipal Associations during the process of preparing the state budget for local roads. It should be borne in mind that in 2008, as you have already said, there were 40.5 million intended for local authorities. Of all roads combined, the local roads account for 41%. I ask you, Minister, do you think it is possible to keep local roads in order with this money? And where is the solution here, i.e. where can I get more resources here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U75	Thank you for a good question. Of course, all the grants awarded can only meet the state's capabilities and capabilities. If you ask the ministers in this hall if they are interested in building the Tallinn-Tartu highway as a state highway in four lanes in one year, why not? After all, it would give work to our builders and bring us a faster connection between the two specific cities. Of course, that would be an interest. We must rely on our capabilities and capabilities. And it is quite right that the desire of the Cooperation Council was much greater, almost twice as much, as you have even said, 58.9 million. I say here that this is a matter of priorities. We want to increase pensions in one financial year, the salaries of teachers, to channel money to local roads, in addition to the investment wishes of the local authorities themselves. And there are a number of other places where the money is transferred to the state budget. It is clear that we can only operate on the scale of the financial resources that we have today. Here we must certainly look at where the country is headed. And I think that here is an important indication, which you yourself note, that the country has been channeling more and more money into local roads year after year. I think it's a very important indication.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U76	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U77	Thank you, Minister. As we know, next year the money from local government roads will no longer be linked to excise duties on fuel. However, the state budget will receive 55 million more fuel excise duties next year. I ask why some of this should not go further on the roads of local governments. Is that money supposed to move off the road somewhere else? This money from the fuel excise is intended for road repair.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U78	Thank you. Don't be unfair! Look also at the investments that will be made if we are talking not only about local roads, but about all road investments, or we are really bringing in all national roads. And what do we see? We see that investments will increase by an additional 30 million in 2016 compared to 2015. It's a reality. We can see that 315 million roads will be diverted in 2016. At the same time, it was 285 in 2015. We see a clear trend towards more money being channelled into the roads. So this is reality. It's real money that goes there.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U79	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We have a circuit of 18,000 kilometers of state roads and 23,000 kilometers of local government roads. The 1999 Road Act says that we are progressively reducing the distinction between financing public roads and financing local roads. Today, that proportion is very out of place. Do you see that the gap will start to narrow sometime? Currently, 10% of the country's circa is coming from local governments. Could this situation ever change in favour of local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U81	Thank you for this good question. Once again, I stress the basic principle with which I began. In fact, the law says that local authorities should actually keep local roads in order. That's the first level. And the state must maintain all routes and sideways associated with state routes. In fact, separate decisions have been made all the time, and these are political decisions to channel additional financial support to local authorities. After all, it is not possible for local governments to follow the pace we would like from them. Local authorities do not have enough resources to keep their roads in order, improve them and ensure that new roads are built. If you also look at the proportions, the contribution of the state and local authorities has been more or less of such that in 2006 the State's contribution (primarily in the form of additional funding) was 18% and 20% in 2010. That's the proportion they've been. We certainly need to monitor, as I said, the tendency that the country has been channeling more and more money into it. And when you say that even more support from the state is needed, there is always the question of whether we are going to take something away or whether we are going to create some new sources of cover. Even now, i.e. when we look at last year, not only on national roads, but on local roads in the same way, we see this rise. And I think it's very important that the tide comes now. As I said in reply to one of the earlier questions, we are currently essentially only going below the 2008 summit if we really reached the support of a country of 40 million just before the crisis. We're talking 30 million now. So we have been thriving every year to increase this support, thanks to the current government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U82	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U83	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Mr. Minister! In Estonia, speed cameras have become a natural part of the roads, just like kilometres of water or road markings. And with a proper asphalt, there's a speed camera when it's put in the right place, a money-making mechanism because, as the State Department's recent experiment shows, half the passengers are speeding. Of course, I need drivers with heavy feet. Would it not be wise to direct the money earned by a speed camera directly to this securing structure, i.e. the maintenance of roads? In particular, I am thinking of directing fines collected by speed cameras specifically to the maintenance of roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U84	Thank you. We have not discussed this directly. I understand you haven't done a deeper analysis, either, and you've come up with it. But I think all ideas are always worth discussing. It is certainly always a question that the more we link costs and revenues in different positions, the more we index the entire state budget. So that's always the question of how much we really want to shut down from the state budget, if you could say so, i.e. shut down there at the level of our own costs. After all, today we are already in a situation where, in essence, a very large part of the budget is pre-defined by previous decisions when dealing with the state budget. That's always the point of the question. Your concrete example was about speed cameras and the fines that result from them, whether they should be guided by road-keeping. Perhaps we should think the other way around: the money from speeding fines should be directed to other sectors, which may be related to health, for example. Such a question could also arise. But this question of indexation is certainly important. Several economic experts have also pointed out that, if the 'indexed closure' plays a very large role in the state budget, it poses certain risks to further policies, if desired.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U85	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U86	Külliiki Kübarsepp will be able to ask a question to the Minister of State Administration Arto Asa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U87	Thank you. Good minister! The Free Party is of the opinion that there must be cost savings in the public sector. The point of concern is that this money is saved only for the purpose of scraping money. Perhaps our goal would be to see the system as a whole. The Cooperation Assembly has also urged changes to the administration system. What is the government's vision of continuing the system of performance wages in the public sector? And does this mathematical exercise also lead to more substantial savings for the general government?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U88	Thank you. As stated in the first part of Question Time, it is indeed the Government's desire that these cuts bring about substantive changes. To ensure that jobs that have been left empty are not simply laid off, but that public authorities, ministries, review their organisation of work, review what can be done better. There may not be any tasks to be carried out at all. These cuts, including the reduction of staff, are one of the tools for carrying out substantive reforms. Indeed, as you said, I agree with you. Specific proposals are expected for where and how work should be carried out. And it has also been the attitude of the government that we want substantive changes in the current model of government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U89	Question Time is over. Thank you, ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U90	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. It is time to hand over both the drafts and the enquiries to the President. Despite the call, there is no wish. Incoming check, please! 82 comms are here, 19 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U91	First, the first reading of the draft Act amending the Aviation Act and the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic is on the agenda. Minister for Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse is a government waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U92	Mr President, thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted to you...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U93	One moment, Mr. Minister! People's ambassadors are about to calm down. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted to you a draft law amending the Aviation Act. The purpose of the amendment is to make the provisions of the Aviation Act work better. Now for those changes in detail. First, the procedure for exempting visitors from security screening invited by the President of the Republic will be extended. As we know, this possibility is provided in the current law for visitors to the Riigikogu and members of the government, but not for visitors to the President of the Republic. This amendment aims to clarify the procedure and to create this possibility for the President's guests as well. Secondly, the formalisation of the exemption from security screening will be amended. Under current law, security screening is exempted by order of the Prime Minister, although the right level for decision-making is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This means that in the future, the President of the Republic of Estonia will release the guest from security screening when a member of the Government of the Republic, Secretary of State or Director of the Office of the President has submitted a request to this effect. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has expertise covering diplomatic practices and protocol requirements in order to apply internal and external protocols for the reception of high guests. Third, it states that bodyguards who send persons exempt from security screening to travel are also exempt from security screening. The fourth significant change maintains the obligation to ensure both Estonian and English radio communications in Estonian airspace. On 1 November s. a the provision adopted in the spring of the Aviation Act enters into force and only English radio communications should be guaranteed in aviation. As a result of the change, the English language is used in the Estonian airspace above flight level 95, which is about three kilometres high, and in the nearby and approach areas in the Tallinn flight information area. Note that the adjacent and approach area is an exception to the provision of radio communications in both languages, regardless of the height of the flight. The approach area of Tallinn airport extends above flight level 95, but nevertheless both languages can be used in radio communications there. The changes ensure the preservation of the Estonian language in Estonian aviation and do not assume that pilots who only have a licence to maintain radio communication in Estonian will exchange this licence for a radio communication licence in English. By establishing the use of English above flight level 95, Estonia will ensure compliance with its international obligations, in particular under the Treaty establishing a functional airspace block in Northern Europe, to cooperate cross-border on air traffic control. The draft will enter into force as a general rule. I ask you to support the decision of the Committee on Economic Affairs and to conclude the first reading of the draft as amended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U95	Any questions for the Minister? Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U96	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. The Estonian language must, of course, be protected and everyone must also comply with the language law, but look, pilots not only fly at 10 kilometres. They can also fly at 100 meters when they land and take off, and when a large passenger plane has someone in front of it, they're gonna ask, "Do you speak English? " If you speak only Estonian, I think it creates a dangerous situation. If you're such a tough guy that you fly a plane, you're sitting behind that rudder, you could learn English. With all due respect to the Estonian language and our language law, I think English could still be the language in which pilots communicate. It creates a robust set of rules and prevents very dangerous situations. Sometimes you have to communicate at a low altitude and react very quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U97	Honourable questioner! When reference is made to language, there was a suspicion that this requirement might be in conflict with the Constitution in the course of the debates that had already taken place in the spring. Secondly, if you noticed, it is possible to communicate in two languages in the region of Tallinn Airport and below a certain height. It is true that communicating in two languages at these levels clearly creates a safer situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U98	Thank you, Minister. There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. The rapporteur for the Economic Commission is Jaanus Marrand. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the draft 83 twice. First of all, it was discussed at an extraordinary committee meeting on 24 September, when it was decided to put the draft on the agenda for this week. On the second occasion, the draft was discussed on 28 September. Gerli Rebane, Head of the Aeronautics Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, attended the meeting as an invited guest. The Commission's debate revolved around a question. It was that the draft law amending the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act was in the proceedings of the Riigikogu this spring and why, when English was introduced as the language of communication with air traffic controllers, it was not possible to foresee the use of the Estonian language either. At the same time, the Commission came to the conclusion that communication in Estonian could be allowed, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also prepared the draft as a result of public discussions, precisely because communication in Estonian could still be allowed at a low level of flight. That's why this bill has come before you. The Commission also agreed that a draft law could come before you in a modified form. The reason for this amendment is that when two laws are amended, both laws should be mentioned in the title. Now that is the case: instead of the original title 'Law amending the Aviation Act', we have on the table the 'Law amending the Aviation Act and the Aviation Act and the Law amending the State Fees Act'. It'll probably make the title a little more complicated, but more technical. Finally, the Commission decided to propose the completion of the first reading (decided by consensus) and to set the deadline for amendments at 12 noon on 6 October 2015. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U100	Questions for the waitress. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U101	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu! I'll come back to the same thing with stupid persistence. It is only natural that if the Chinese hold a diner in the centre of Tallinn, speak Estonian with a Chinese accent. However, when it comes to aviation, an investigation into the language of a pilot flying a small aircraft in the hands of a large Boeing creates a dangerous situation. I understand that the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia is at stake, which is a sacred matter. But for God's sake, if a planeload of passengers crashes and gets heroically killed, could anyone be comforted by knowing that they acted in accordance with the Constitution? Was the Commission confident that it would not be dangerous if pilots could communicate in two languages?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U102	Flights are known to be guided by an air traffic control centre from which planes are directed to different levels. All air traffic controllers must speak English. Without it, it is not possible to work as an air traffic controller.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U103	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U104	Dear waitress, good colleague Jaanus Marrand! Why does the Committee on Rural Affairs deal with air transport and language issues? Is this how it's gonna happen in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U105	The Committee on Rural Affairs does not deal with it; it is dealt with by the Committee on Economic Affairs. I am here as a member of the Economic Commission. Perhaps the questioner was confused that the so-called Minister for Aviation was responsible for rural affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U106	It's all clear now. No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed that the first reading of the draft 83 be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 12 noon on 6 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U107	The next item is the first reading of the Bill 63 on Amendment to the Medical Device Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur on behalf of the initiators of the draft is Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister for Health and Labour. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U108	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I introduce to you the 63th draft law initiated by the Government of the Republic, which is called the 'Law amending the Medical Device Act'. This is a rather small bill, nothing very big in the world will change when it is adopted. But it should still be accepted. In particular, the draft Act specifies the requirements for the affixing of the CE marking and the notification to the competent authority of the requirements to be complied with when the device is placed on the market in the case of medical devices of a higher risk class. The need for clarification is due to the fact that there has so far been ambiguity between EU and Estonian law in relation to the requirements for the affixing of the CE marking. Where equipment of higher risk classes is placed on the market, some of the notification requirements of the competent authority are redundant. I will talk about two changes separately. Firstly, the amendments concerning the installation of the CE marking. The CE marking shall be a compulsory marking which shall be affixed to a product to indicate compliance with the requirements laid down in the legislation. The draft provides that the label must be displayed in a visible, legible and indelible form on the instructions for use of the device. In addition, the label shall also be affixed to the device or affixed to its sterile packaging and, where possible, to the retail packaging of the device. The current regime does not provide for such requirements, therefore there is a risk of misunderstanding of the law. It is not precisely stated where the label must be on the device itself, on the device's own packaging or on the sales package. The second amendment concerns the notification of a higher class of medical devices to the Health Board, which is a supervisory authority. In accordance with the current procedures, any person in Estonia who places on the market or puts into service a medical device of a higher risk class or an active implantable medical device shall inform or distribute it for the first time professionally, within 10 days of placing the device on the market, putting into service, first distribution or starting professional use. The draft deletes from the law the requirement that the supervisory authority, or the Health Board, be informed of the placing on the market and putting into service of these medical devices. This is because medical devices of a higher risk class can be placed on the Union market or put into service after the conformity assessment of a notified body has been carried out. Thus, in the case of these devices, the process involves a third party controlling the conformity of a medical device, whose activities are in turn subject to strict control. Since the safety of these devices is already ensured in this way, it is unreasonable to notify them to the Health Board and the Directive does not provide for this obligation. So safety will remain guaranteed and the work force of the Health Board will decrease.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U109	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U110	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Mr. Minister! Let's say that some of the importers are submitting an application to the registrar of the Health Board to register some new medical device. It will do so before it starts marketing the device, it will do so even before it starts examining the market, because potential buyers will ask if the device is registered in Estonia. And if he suddenly finds out that 20 of the same devices already exist, he's gonna decide that he's not gonna bring that device to Earth. But the device stays in the register. There is quite a lot of so-called junk information about equipment that has never been brought to Estonia and is never expected to be brought to Estonia. Isn't there some kind of regulation that the register should be reviewed from time to time and deleted from the register if a registered device has not started to be used?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U111	As our registers are electronic, the presence of many entries does not unduly increase the administrative burden for the Estonian state. It has not been heard that the Health Board is groaning very much under the fact that there are data in the register that may not be relevant. And the registration will allow the same importers to later exercise this right. But I'm sure I'll ask. If there's such a problem in reality, I'll get into it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U112	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U113	Thank you for your answer, Minister. However, I will make it clear once again, in the form of a question, that this is not about administrative burdens. The electronic register is very easy to manage, but it creates misinformation. Our registers are also visible elsewhere and someone will see that there are such a number of devices registered in Estonia. Actually, no one uses much around here. That's the question. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U114	Okay, now I get the point of the question. But it has not reached me with acute concern. Maybe it's because of my incompetence. Anyway, I'm gonna ask you a question, and when I get smarter, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U115	Thank you. There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. The Commission's rapporteur is Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U116	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this draft on 21 September. Tiina Drell, Minister of Health and Labour and Adviser to the Pharmaceutical Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, were invited. The Minister presented to the Commission draft Act 63 amending the Medical Device Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, which aims to bring the Medical Device Act into line with European Union law. To this end, the requirements relating to the marking of the medical device and the notification requirements of the supervisory authority shall be specified. The members of the Commission listened to the Minister's explanations and asked further questions on the requirements for the notification of medical devices and on the requirements for the CE marking. Tiina Drell, adviser to the Ministry of Social Affairs, answered the questions. The members of the Commission asked for the definition of medical devices to be clarified. Tiina Drell explained that the medical device is also a medical device that does not absorb or cause physiological changes in the body. The medical device is all other medical devices that are neither a medicinal product nor a dietary supplement, such as syringes and X-ray devices. In addition, it asked which requirements apply to the CE marking and where those requirements are set out. It was explained to us that the CE marking is governed by Article 20 of the Product Conformity Act and Chapter IV of Regulation No 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The CE marking must definitely be affixed to the medical device. The purpose of the amendment is to clarify the additional requirements for affixing the CE marking to a medical device, which are too general in relation to the Directive in force. The Commission took four consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session by 30 September, to propose that the first reading be closed, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 14 October 2015 and to appoint me rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U117	There are no questions for the rapporteur from the Commission. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. I'll close the negotiations. The Commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of draft 63. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 14 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U118	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and their precursors initiated by the Government of the Republic. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, will give a presentation on behalf of the initiators. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U119	Thank you. I'll introduce you to Bill 64, draft law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors. The content of the draft is very simple, bringing the law into line with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. According to the draft, companies holding a permanent establishment in Estonia must register with the competent authority in Estonia, which is the Medicines Agency, even before they can own and use scheduled substances in Category 2 subcategory 2A. Until now, registration was required prior to the placing on the market of Category 2 precursors. So now the registration requirement has been brought forward, it must be registered already before the substances are owned and used. The amendment entered into force in the countries of the European Union on 1 July 2015. The implementation of an additional control measure is expected to reduce the movement of precursors to the illicit market and their use for the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances. At present, only one substance is included in Category 2A, which is acetic anhydride, an anhydride of acetic acid, which is used as a feedstock for the illicit manufacture of heroin. The draft is also intended to introduce a second minor amendment. Its aim is to enable the national expert institution, which is the Estonian Forensic Institute in Estonia, to provide narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and their precursors to institutions for research and development. The amendment will allow R &amp; D institutions to carry out more research on narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. Currently, the National Expertise Institution has the right to grant these substances for study purposes only in areas of study related to internal security, surveillance institutions and national defence applied universities of the Academy of Internal Defence. As a result of this change, public universities, such as Tallinn University of Technology and the University of Tartu, will be seen as the main partners of the institution of expertise. The interest of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Internal Affairs is, for example, that Tallinn University of Technology develops a drug tester. Of course, they need to test narcotics and psychotropic substances in their laboratories. At present, they do not have this option; this right is reserved for surveillance institutions and the internal defence university of applied sciences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U120	Questions for the initiator of the draft. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U121	Thank you. As a result of the campaign to legalize cannabis, there was also a demonstration on this subject here at Toompea Castle Square. I want to ask you, is there a plan to carry out a deep scientific study of the harmful effects and effects of cannabis on the human body at all? I mean, man's psyche, reproductive ability, and all vital organs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U122	This draft does not address this issue. However, the impact of cannabis has been studied very thoroughly both in Estonia and in other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U123	No further questions. The Commission's rapporteur is Monika Haukanõm, Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U124	Mr President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Social Committee discussed draft law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors 64 at its meeting on 21 September. All members of the Commission took part in the meeting. The draft was presented by Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, and supported by Anna-Liisa Pääsukene, Adviser to the Ministry's Public Health Department, and Ivi Normet, Deputy Chancellor of Health. As you have already heard from the presentation of the Minister, the draft aims to make two changes. One amendment relates to the need to apply European Union law rules to those contained in Estonian legislation, the other relates to the possibility for R &amp; D institutions to use narcotics and psychotropic substances in future development. The members of the Commission asked the Minister some explanatory questions and received answers to them. For example, a question was asked about the time of registration: when registration will still take place in the Agency if the starting materials of Category 2 (A) are to be used, which is currently, as we have heard, a single one. We learned that this must be done proactively if the company is willing to start handling the substance. The second question concerned schools which in the future will have the right to use, free of charge, narcotics or psychotropic substances as evidence or subject to confiscation for research and development purposes. We learned that in addition to the National Defence Academy, the Tallinn Technical University and the University of Tartu will have this right in the future. The Commission took four decisions, all of which were adopted by consensus. First decision: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 30 September. Secondly, propose that the first reading be completed. Thirdly, it is proposed that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 14 October 2015. And last decision: to appoint Monika Haukanõm, vice-president of the Social Affairs Committee as rapporteur. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U125	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U126	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madame waitress! How much psychotropic substances are given to these schools for testing? Are these defined in kilos, are they grams, milliliters or liters? Is there as much as the application says? If you draw parallels with the Soviet era and the first years of re-independence in Estonia, as a chemistry teacher at the vocational school, I can assure you that we were forced to bring 20 litres of pure alcohol every quarter. I had to wonder, I wonder what I'm gonna do with it. But in the end, it all came in handy. Now I'm asking you what amounts we're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U127	Thank you for your question. I am indebted to this answer, but, ultimately, it is a number of factors: how many substances are needed to carry out certain development or research, and, of course, how many such substances have been confiscated on the market. I do believe, however, that we are not talking about kilos and liters here, but about smaller units.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U128	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U129	Thank you. Dear colleague, did the committee discuss how many of these licences have been granted in Estonia by the Agency? I'm not talking about pharmacies, I'm talking about companies that can distribute narcotics and psychotropic substances?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U130	Thank you for your question. According to the Agency, four companies are currently authorised to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U131	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U132	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I read that it is intended to exclude the word 'company' from the list of persons to whom these substances are issued. Does it increase the circle to which they are issued, or does it shrink?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U133	The purpose of this provision is not to increase or reduce the number of relevant players. The purpose of this provision is to bring the inspection in question forward. This means that a company that wishes to take such a substance into service must inform the Agency proactively, not when it starts marketing it, but when it wants to acquire it. It does not change or increase the number of users of these substances, but simply brings forward the reporting time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U134	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 64 is complete. I shall set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. of 14 October this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U135	We begin the first reading of the Act on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the Bill on the Amendment of Other Laws 73. The initiators' waitress is Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U136	This bill is a little bit more extensive. It also aims to amend some other laws, in addition to the Health Services Organisation Act. In general, a number of changes in the health sector address the long-standing issues that different stakeholders, such as family doctors and medical students, have long wanted. The solutions have been summarised in one package and presented to Parliament as a draft. We are extending the rights of family doctors and this step needs to be seen in conjunction with the general strategy of the Ministry of Social Affairs to strengthen primary health care. I am thinking of the development of a system of health centres, which is EUR 85 million from the European Union's budget for the current financial period. This is not directly mentioned in this bill, but some of the changes are linked to it. Let me introduce you to the changes. The draft is intended to grant a nurse, a family nurse, who works with a family doctor on the basis of a family doctor's appointment, the right to prescribe a prescription. To this end, the Health Insurance Act and the Pharmaceutical Act must be amended. The aim is also to extend the range of services provided by general medical care providers and nursing or other hospital care providers to the physical therapy service that is necessary in particular in the context of health centres. The draft also regulates the right of general medical care providers and nursing and other hospitals to make use of their immovable property; as a new concept, the additional competence of a specialist doctor is introduced to the level of the law, by amending the law of the University of Tartu. The provisions of the Health Services Organisation Act governing the participation of medical residents in the provision of health care services and specifying the participation of health-care students in the provision of such services are also to be amended. Now, just a little bit closer. The right of a family nurse to prescribe recipes is a subject that has been up for a long time. The aim of this amendment is to save the working hours of the family doctor, reduce his workload and thereby reduce the waiting lists. This concerns in particular the issue of re-prescriptions to chronic patients, where the visit to a doctor or consultation with him is not necessary in substance. A person receives a prescription for the same medicine every few months and sometimes for several years. Extending the rights of family nurses will improve the quality of independent family nurses' reception in general medical care, as family nurses will be able to complete the provision of counselling and services there. They no longer have to ask their doctor to prescribe a prescription and patients receive re-prescription medicines more quickly. In practice, at the moment, if you call the family nurse, sometimes she says we're gonna write a prescription, but the doctor has to confirm it, and she won't be back until lunch tomorrow. This problem can be solved with represcriptions. I would like to stress that family nurse's right to prescriptions is limited and covers only agreed medicines related to the treatment of specific diseases or conditions. Only these remain within the jurisdiction of the family nurse. And the family nurse is obliged to consult the family doctor to assess whether or not the current treatment needs to be continued. Nurses receive pharmacology knowledge at a level that enables them to acquire the basic knowledge of writing a prescription after completing one of the additional training courses. As a result, they can be granted limited prescription rights. I would like to stress once again: a family nurse can only issue re-prescriptions, and this is an opportunity on the family doctor's team, not an obligation. The following change: From the third year of residency, the resident has the right to prescribe a prescription in the same way as the doctor who has obtained the relevant specialist medical care. In view of the lack of staff in the healthcare system, medical residents are allowed to prescribe medicinal products related to a specific specialized medical care, with benefits, under the supervision and responsibility of a specialist doctor, from the third year of residency. The next change is to improve access to physical therapy. The physiotherapy service will be one of the general medical care services in the future, which will help to ensure much better access to this essential component of rehabilitation. At present, family doctors are not authorised to indicate this. The proposed change will allow the physical therapist to act on the family doctor's team, and this is a step directly linked to the health centre programme. We want other specialties to be represented alongside the family doctor, so that people are given more assistance at the first level and that some times they do not go to the hospital. One change is that health care providers' rights are extended with the possibility of granting immovable property to someone else. Basically, existing practice is legalised, where the hospital rents space to, for example, a family doctor, a pharmacy, a newspaper kiosk or a cafe. The next amendment concerns the additional competence of the specialist medical care profession. Additional expertise in specialised medical care is acquired by specializations under the special programme of residency and gives the right to assist people in the context of both the already-acquired profession and the additional competences of specialised medical care. Information on additional competences is important for the institution providing healthcare as well as for patients, the Health Board and the Health Insurance Fund. A specialist with some additional competence will be able to provide more effective assistance with his specific knowledge. The health care provider, however, has the possibility to direct the patient to a doctor who has additional competence in a particular field of study. At the moment, these additional competences are essentially acquired, but they are not reflected in the national registers, so neither the patient nor the potential employer, or hospital, may know them. One change is that medical residents are entitled to participate in the provision of specialist medical care for the purpose of acquiring a specialty. In this way, doctors and residents can participate more directly in the treatment and gain better experience. This certainly means making better use of our health care staff. But, of course, in such cases, medical residents work under the supervision of a supervisor. The supervisor monitors the activities of the resident, teaches him, supports him and decides on the extent to which the resident can provide medical care in a particular specialty. It can be said that, in principle, the law extends the right of the supervisor's basic doctor to decide what assistance a resident of a doctor may already offer from a certain point of view. The latest major change concerns the participation of medical students in medical care. For the purpose of obtaining a qualification, health services may be provided, in addition to the current students who have chosen physical therapy, who have completed a second course of compulsory subjects in the curriculum, under the guidance and responsibility of a physiotherapist, of course, and under the supervision and responsibility of a clinical psychologist, students who have completed a third course of compulsory subjects in the curriculum, then under the supervision and responsibility of an occupationalrapeud, and clinical psychologists under the supervision and responsibility of a clinical psychologist. These changes are based on proposals from professional associations, Tallinn Health Care College and the University of Tartu Medical Faculty. In addition, the draft also provides for technical amendments which I will not introduce to you here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U137	Any questions for the waitress? Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Did I understand you correctly that all these changes have now been discussed in sufficient detail both in the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Tartu and in the applied schools of health care? And did they also provide a lot of substantive improvements and good comments that you can use?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U139	I'd say the Ministry's been in a more reactive role here. Several changes, which all parties have long wanted to make in the law, have rather been expected from the Ministry of Impact Analysis and Collection into a package. But indeed, these changes have been thoroughly negotiated with all the target groups and, generally speaking, there is a common understanding that they are reasonable, entirely there.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U140	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I read this bill and ask if I have misunderstood that it is like a rescue bill in a situation where doctors have gone abroad and, figuratively speaking, the doctor's duties must now be given to the felcher. I'm talking about residents right now. And does the nurse have to deal with the family doctor's ID now? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U142	Now the nurse can still deliver her ID, which, I think, makes sense in itself. But that is certainly not the way to interpret this bill. It is rather a question of general health policy trends. We have provided both in nursing education and, more broadly, in health care development visions, that the nurse's profession should be more prestigious throughout society and within the healthcare system. Nurses should have more competence as an independent health professional. We've come from a health care system where the nurse was a doctor's envoy. In today's medical system, at least Western medicine, a sister has a specific competence and both the ability and competence to work as an independent medical professional. Our laws have so far restricted the rights to work independently. Now we're actually giving the nurses the competence they've acquired in nursing majors. As far as medical residents and other health-care students are concerned, I generally consider it very reasonable that people who have received most of the required education are also entrusted with real work. Only in this way will there be real practical experience. If we keep our residents away from watching others work, it doesn't make sense. But, as has been said, in all these cases, the basic physician, the 'full-accredited health professional', is responsible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U143	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I will continue with the same issue of whether this is, in essence, the law of keeping these few doctors. Is the principle, which has already been accepted in the ambulance, that the doctor does not need to be driven around, now extended and aimed at letting the nurses do their work as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U145	Looking at the Estonian figure, the number of doctors in the whole population, Estonia is quite good and we have reached the so-called 'target' level. The challenge of the future, however, is to become more nurses in the healthcare system and, in particular, as independent medical practitioners. As regards, for example, the distinction between the competences of a doctor and a nurse, I think that in general people should do the work for which they are competent. It is a waste of human resources when overqualified people are used to do jobs that do not require this qualification. It is not really necessary for a family doctor to prescribe a re-prescription; the qualifications of a family nurse are sufficient to do so. It is about saving the doctor's time, which is aimed at enabling the doctor to do more of the work on the substance, for which he has been trained separately, so that the doctor can help patients who are not qualified to treat the disease.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U146	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U147	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. If we already allow a fourth-year student to do dental work or any other work in the medical field, then maybe six or seven years of study are not necessary. Why don't we cut down on the medical programs?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U148	Thank you, Valeri Korb, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. If you have such a proposal and you formally make it to us, we will certainly discuss it with the parties. However, until now, such changes have not been supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U149	Thank you to the Minister. No further questions. Commission waitress Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U150	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee examined the draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act and other laws on the Monday of last week, 21 September. This was introduced to us and answered questions from the members of the Commission by Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, Ivi Normet, Deputy Secretary-General of the Health Area of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Mare Toompuu and Maarja Kerner, specialists in the Health System Development Department. I will not repeat the substance of this draft because the Minister gave a very thorough overview of it. The members of the Commission considered the proposed changes to be appropriate and the consensus reached four decisions. The Commission proposes that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 30 September and that the first reading be closed. The deadline for amendments could be set at 10 working days, i.e. amendments can be tabled until 5.15 p.m. on 14 October. As a fourth decision, I was appointed rapporteur for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U151	Questions for the Commission's rapporteur. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U152	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! The explanatory memorandum on the second page of the draft states that the aim is to shorten the order of treatment. Please specify to what extent and how the order of treatment is intended to be reduced!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U153	Thank you for your question. It's very difficult to answer right now. There are currently 1129 nurses in Estonia and only 19 of them have completed clinical and pharmacology training in order to obtain the right to prescribe prescription medicines. We very much hope that many family nurses will exercise this right, thus reducing the burden on family doctors and shortening the order of treatment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U154	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U155	Thank you. I don't mean to pick on you, but I'd like to come back to my question. My proposal is to shorten the training of doctors. For example, even dental training seems too long. Don't you support me?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U156	Thank you for your question. I do, however, trust experts in my field, and I think that the studies that are currently available to doctors are appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U157	Thank you, Liina Kersna! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 73 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 14 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U158	The next item on our agenda is draft 74. This is a draft law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases initiated by the Government of the Republic and amending other laws. The government waitress is Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U159	Today I stand before you for the last time and present the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases and other laws. There are important changes to the plan in four areas: immunization, treatment beyond will, health surveillance of workers in relation to communicable diseases, and organisation of reference laboratories in the field of communicable diseases. Let's start the immunization. The draft will specify its procedures. It is foreseen that immunization may also be carried out by a midwife other than a doctor and a nurse. The change is due to the fact that in practice midwives are already doing so. Examples include neonatal vaccination against hepatitis B virus and tuberculosis. In the future, we will see an increasing role of midwives in immunization counselling for pregnant women and parents. The responsibilities of the general practitioner for immunization will also be specified. In fact, the aim is to ensure that a family doctor vaccinates his list of patients in general medical care. According to the current law, the family doctor is obliged to organise the immunisation of children only on the basis of the relevant plan. As a new provision, the family doctor will also be required to ensure that other immunisations are available to listed persons or, if necessary, to refer them to another healthcare provider for immunisation. The aim of the amendment is to ensure that every person can, if possible, carry out the vaccination they want with their family doctor. Immunisations that are not financed by the State are still paid by the patient himself. The draft also regulates the organisation of immunisation in the event of an epidemic. The Minister responsible for the sector shall be empowered to establish appropriate immunisation guidelines for the management of the epidemic. At present, there is one rule of law in force that has not been complied with for years because it has not been considered appropriate to comply with it. The amendment takes into account 2009-2010. Experience with vaccination during a flu pandemic in 2005. Then there was a need for a flexible decision on the immunisation arrangements, and this is how it could be done at the time with the assistance of the Minister responsible for the field. Next: The draft extends the provisions on the application of treatment beyond will to patients with a particularly dangerous infectious disease. Under the current regime, unregulated activities are needed when a person suffering from a particularly dangerous infectious disease has disappeared from medical sight. Of course, an infectious person who is not interested in treating himself is a danger to their health and perhaps their life in contact with other people. If he or she does not appear to be treated and health professionals do not know where he or she is staying, then it is, of course, very difficult to guarantee the health of this sick person himself, but what is more important in this context, of other people. Of course, in order to apply treatment to such people regardless of their will, it is necessary to find out where they are first. And that can't be done by the medics. The draft provides for cooperation between the police and the health care provider in order to identify the whereabouts of people who circumvent treatment. In practice, only patients with tuberculosis have been treated in Estonia without will. This is, of course, a measure that is being implemented in extreme cases, because the violation of fundamental rights is very strong in this situation. During the year, 10-15 patients with tuberculosis will be directed towards involuntary treatment in the middle. And there have been isolated cases where there has been a need to locate such a patient with the help of the police. An agreement has been reached with the police that this could be the case in the future. The following subject: The draft amends the principles on how workers' health is controlled against communicable diseases. According to the draft, regular health surveillance of workers will no longer be required in the future and the employer will be entitled to send the worker to further health surveillance on the basis of risk assessment and on an ad hoc basis. While health surveillance remains required in specified professions or workplaces before taking up work, the requirement for regular health surveillance is abolished as it is not an evidence-based requirement. This means that this has been a rather pointless provision. People have had to have a check every two years to see if they have any infectious diseases. It is possible that a person was declared well, but the next day he gets sick, but he can still go to work. Such a health check is of no use. It also reduces the number of areas of activity where health checks on communicable diseases are required. This health check does not need to be followed in the future by rescue workers, people serving people travelling in swimming pools and swimming pools in accommodation facilities, manufacturers, packers and sellers, police and prison workers who are in direct contact with arrested or detained. Health surveillance shall remain valid only in areas where there is the greatest risk of transmission of communicable diseases and where other laws do not result in health surveillance. For example, educators. The availability of health surveillance is also facilitated, as the draft provides that health surveillance may also be carried out by an occupational health doctor in addition to a family doctor. In view of the important role of occupational health care practitioners in the health surveillance of workers, it is appropriate to give them the right to check persons for communicable diseases as well. I'm done here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U160	Any questions for the initiator of the bill? Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U161	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You said very specifically where regular health checks on infectious diseases will disappear, but please explain whether those working in kindergarten with children or in a restaurant or in another catering place will also be able to do so if the employer tells them to go, they will go, but there will be no regular checks.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U162	Yes, regular control is a concept that can give the impression that it is a continuous control. But this is still happening over a long period of time and, as I said, the Ministry of Social Affairs has no evidence that it would help prevent the spread of infectious diseases and would have a positive effect on health at large. Regular medical examinations would remain in force, for example, for educators and people handling food. In many cases, checks on communicable diseases are necessary before starting work, for example, a chronic infectious disease. These cases can be found out first. As far as people already on the job are concerned, the employer sends a health check of staff with regard to infectious diseases according to their own risk assessment, for example, if there is an epidemic in the country, then workers can send a health check or on an ad hoc basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U163	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You once said that if a person suffering from a dangerous infectious disease, such as tuberculosis, has disappeared, it would be possible to use the police to locate him. How, though, can these people be sent to treatment? They usually refuse and say I'm not sick and I'm not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U165	I quote from pages 5 and 6 of the explanatory memorandum to the draft, so far, only infectious tuberculosis patients who have refused treatment or violated the treatment regime have been treated without will. Between 2004 and 2013, a total of 171 patients with tuberculosis attended treatment beyond their will. This treatment takes place at the Vämejala clinic of the Viljandi Hospital, which deals with a large number of complex persons who do not want to be there voluntarily, but thanks to the organisation of the institution, they remain there beautifully. So these provisions already exist in the law and it works.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U166	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U167	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! You said that you are abolishing the pointless requirement by this law that the employer must have his employees' health checked against infectious diseases. Tell me who the author was who brought this meaningless law that is currently in force into this hall! And don't you think after a while somebody's gonna ask the same thing about your bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U168	If, after a while, someone asks for something like that about this bill, tell them that the author is Jevgeni Ossinovski. Who brought the previous law here to the Riigikogu, unfortunately, I cannot say, but the officials of the Commission can certainly determine the history of this draft procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U169	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You spoke of such a fundamental change in the health check that enough is left to the head of the institution. But you also pointed out that immunisations are subject to certain differences in the event of an epidemic. Could you mark it more?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U171	Thank you, Vilja Savisaar-Toomas! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. That concludes the first reading of Bill 74. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. a 14 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U172	At the moment, if there is a risk of an epidemic or a pandemic, the country must initiate vaccination if vaccination is possible. This does not even require law, nor does common sense say that the state must take the necessary measures. For many diseases, vaccination will help. Of course, the state must organise all of this, plan a certain plan and allocate additional amounts from the state budget in order to carry out the vaccination on a massive scale. So far, the law has said this in principle, but the relevant power of attorney, which has been necessary to confirm either by decree of the Minister or by order of the Government, I do not remember exactly. This has not been considered meaningful. It has now come to the conclusion that one could 'legalize' this practice that we had in 2009 and 2010 when there was a flu pandemic. The Ministry of Social Affairs worked out the immunization procedure with others, it was confirmed and it was done. Now we certainly have the problem that, as a sensitive subject, people from other countries who have received international protection will arrive in Estonia in the coming years. They also have a vaccination plan to be agreed and must have been vaccinated against all communicable diseases. A generally flexible arrangement that these arrangements are approved by the Minister of Social Affairs or the Ministry of Social Affairs seems reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U173	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U174	Sir, I'd like to thank you very much. If we read a hundred-year-old novels or watch plays written a hundred years ago, when we read or see that the main character in the first act coughs, we already know that in the last act he is likely to die of tuberculosis. Mankind has almost overcome this contagious disease, but now, a hundred years later, a new wave has come that we have not been able to control and which is quite seriously thinning mankind's ranks. It's HIV. Does it not seem to you that all our legislation in this area is lagging behind? Maybe we should still take HIV as seriously as they used to take tuberculosis.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U175	Firstly, there are problems with tuberculosis in Estonia today. Data on multi-resistant tuberculosis in Estonia are not very positive either. There is also a link that most patients with tuberculosis, especially those with the most complicated symptoms, are either junkies or alcoholics. And drug addicts, as we know, are pretty much HIV-positive. So it's kind of a big set of problems, isn't it? As far as AIDS is concerned, the situation in Estonia is very sad. In international comparison, we must be ashamed to see what is happening to us. When we had this big bang at the beginning of the last decade, the initial reaction of the country was completely inadequate. In recent years, the situation has improved considerably, the treatment has become more systematic, our treatment facilities have become more professional and we have managed to make quite a lot of progress through prevention. For example, around 2000 we had a large number of HIV infected 15 to 18-year-olds, and in recent years infection in this age group has been close to zero. This is clearly a positive result of prevention. At the same time, the fact is that HIV-positive and AIDS patients in Estonia are exceptionally high as a proportion of the population and there are still many new infections. A positive message is that next year's state budget, which has been handed over to you, has agreed that the cost of HIV and AIDS medicines will be estimated from next year. This means that these medicines can, in principle, be given to anyone who needs them. It has been the case so far that, because the treatment is expensive, not all those who want it have received it, the budget has simply not made it possible. We hope that the availability of medicines will improve in the coming years. We are working with the Institute for Health Development in cooperation with prevention programmes and are also figuring out how to solve the problem of drug addiction and the HIV problem that often comes with it and improve the organisation of AIDS treatment on the part of the health system. But this is an eternally difficult subject and very close to my heart because my constituency is Ida-Viru County. We should talk about all this sometime.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U176	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U177	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! We have talked a lot about swine fever in this hall, but in the modern world, not only pigs but also people, including people from countries where there are other infectious diseases. When this bill comes out, do you also take into account analyses of today's world, where not only pigs move but also many people? In other parts of the world, there are other infectious diseases, including the plague that we do not have.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U178	I referred earlier to an additional issue that we will have to deal with in the coming years. This is immunization of beneficiaries of international protection. That's the plan. The Ministry is working with the relevant authorities through different options, but in fact, this plan already exists. When it comes to other diseases, people have always moved around the world, it is not so new now. And in general, a very large number of killer diseases are such that people around the world have been immunized in quite the same way. So in this context, I do not see any particular danger to the health of Estonian people. However, if our people travel abroad and do not vaccinate themselves against any disease, this could be a source of danger. But in general, we have a wider problem as to whether we can keep the level of vaccination high in Estonia. In recent years, we have experienced a worrying decrease in the coverage of immunization in several diseases, especially among children. Some people drink chlorine into their children, and others think that they do not need to vaccinate their children. This trend is worrying. We are still doing well at the moment, but we must make sure that the level of vaccination does not fall in society at large.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U179	Thank you, Minister. The Social Affairs Committee waitress is Vilja Savisaar-Toomas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U180	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases and amending other laws by number 74 at its meeting on 21 September. The bill was presented to the Commission by Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister for Health and Labour, and Martin Kadai, Adviser to the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, was also invited. I am not going to repeat everything the Minister has already said. He also made a similar presentation at a meeting of the Commission. Some small nuances to this bill are still changing, but they do not concern the essence of the law. I will then try to pass on some of the questions raised by the Members of the Commission during the debate. The members of the Commission heard the author's explanations and expressed their views on the draft. In general, opinions were positive. There was an interest in the health check of refugees coming to Estonia. The Minister of Health and Labour explained to the members of the Commission that refugees are subject to a primary health check at the airport or at border crossing points and that further health check is already carried out at the accommodation centre or local government. As we know, it has already been agreed with some healthcare providers where it will take place in concrete terms. The health check of refugees who come into the European Union is still taking place in all countries, so some of the refugees who arrive here have already passed the health check in the country where they arrived. The Riigikogu also has amendments to the law on granting international protection to aliens, making the health check of refugees compulsory. It also asked whether the required health check for communicable diseases, as amended by the draft, would remain valid for catering workers. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that the requirement would continue to apply to staff of schools, catering, health, social and childcare institutions, beauty and other personal services providers, as well as to all those who practice in these areas. It asked how much pressure the police would be burdened by a change that would provide for cooperation between the police and health care providers so that a person who refrained from treatment could be sent to treatment beyond the control of the will. It was clarified that this amendment would not entail a significant additional workload for the police. During the debate on the draft proposal, the Commission raised the issue of HIV prevention. It was expressed that, as a preventive measure, consideration should be given to making HIV tests mandatory, including for refugees. A representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs noted that the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases regulates only treatment beyond will, which can be applied to particularly dangerous communicable diseases, which are also listed in the Act: cholera, plague and tuberculosis. As you have heard, however, there is no HIV positivity on this list. My personal opinion is that prevention of the spread of HIV could be much more extensive for us. The field could be much more regulated and mandatory HIV tests could be applied more widely. But at this point, yes, it will face a possible constitutional breach. On this point, I also asked the Chancellor of Justice the last time he gave us a presentation, and I received a written reply that, in the preliminary assessment, this could indeed be an obstacle to fundamental rights, but that this subject requires a broader approach. The Chancellor of Justice also advised me to turn to the Bioethics Council, which I will certainly do. In general, I believe that there is a need for laws in this area to protect people infected with HIV from discrimination, but at the same time to punish deliberate and conscious infection. For the benefit of everyone, the Minister has already left the Chamber, that the Committee on Social Affairs is planning to hold a public hearing of the Social Affairs Committee on the subject of AIDS prevention on 27 October. All of you are welcome and invited. To Kersti Sarapuu, however, I will say in addition to the Minister's reply on how compulsory treatment is guaranteed, so much that according to the law, the court decides the duration of this treatment. If a person is prescribed treatment, he or she will be sent to receive it with the help of the police and the court. Now the decisions that have been made. The first decision concerned the inclusion of the plenary session on the agenda. The proposal was to discuss it today, 30 September 2015, and to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 14 October, at 5.15 p.m. On behalf of the Social Committee, it was decided to appoint Mr Vilja Savisaar-Toomas as rapporteur. All these decisions were taken by consensus by the Committee on Social Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U181	Questions for the waitress. Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U182	Dear waitress, I remember 25 years ago when I had a reason to go to the United States many times. There, a young woman, 20 years old but weighing less than 20 kilos, died in front of television cameras and in front of the press. He was one of 350 victims who got the HIV virus from his dentist who deliberately distributed it. Society was powerless back then. We are 25 years later in a situation where the number of people with tuberculosis in Estonia is three digits and the number of people infected with HIV is five. Why is it that we are so slow to react when taking more serious precautions, even though this is still an incurable disease in the late 20th century and the 21st century?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U183	The simple answer would be that we did not address this issue so thoroughly in the Commission. But my personal opinion is, as I was trying to express, that the spread of HIV should be taken much more seriously. Perhaps to expand the compulsory HIV test? At present, only pregnant women are subject to mandatory testing, but of course it is possible for everyone to do so. It's also allowed for prisoners, but they have to agree. I also think we should declare an HIV epidemic. If we look at an average of 25 new HIV-infected people per 100,000 inhabitants, then we are the first in the European Union. The European average is 6 people infected per 100,000 people, so we have 25. It is estimated that 15,000 people have already been infected with HIV in Estonia, and so it can be said that it is an epidemic. We should say it boldly, and then, with the Minister's regulation, it would be possible to lay down rules, which the Minister also spoke of, indicating that he has special powers to do so. Why we have this state of affairs is very difficult to answer. In my opinion, it is also the view that only people with a certain social background will be infected with HIV. At the same time, we have known for a long time that HIV is no longer spread only among MSMs and injecting drug users, but is spread more widely to society through the sexual partners of injecting drug users. In my opinion, this is a serious problem and I very much hope that the support group established in the Riigikogu will move forward and that a committee of problems will be set up to examine this issue more quickly and thoroughly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U184	The next item is the first reading of 70 draft laws on the recognition of foreign professional qualifications initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Education and Science, is the rapporteur for the initiative. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U185	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! You have before you a draft amending the Foreign Professional Qualifications Recognition Act and several other laws. The amendments are based on innovations in the Professional Qualifications Directive, which will be transposed by January 2016. The principles of the Professional Qualifications Directive are applied when a person has acquired an education or professional experience in another European Union country and wishes to enter Estonia for a regulated profession. A profession shall be deemed to be regulated if the state has established qualification requirements for its employment, whether formal education, further training or work experience. For example, a doctor, a teacher and a lawyer are regulated professions in Estonia. The recognition of professional qualifications must ensure the free movement of workers in the European Union and the functioning of the internal market. Member States tend to protect their markets by regulating professions, and professional associations that act as closed tsunamis in several countries are particularly interested. The general principle of recognition is that if a person is a recognised specialist in his or her own country and has the right to pursue a particular profession, another Member State must also recognise his or her professional qualifications and allow him or her access to the labour market. If there are too many differences between a person's qualifications and those required in Estonia, a person may be required to undergo certain compensatory measures before being admitted to the labour market. However, the employer shall take the final decision on recruitment after recognition. The draft will make the recognition of professional qualifications more flexible. As a result, it will be easier for a citizen of the European Union to prove his or her qualification in Estonia in the future. The three main elements of the amendments can be highlighted. Firstly, the introduction of a European Professional Card. The professional card is in fact an electronic certificate indicating that the person's qualifications are recognised for the relevant profession. As the professional card is processed throughout the European Union in the Single Internal Market Information System, it makes it quicker and easier for people to recognise. Secondly, the implementation of the alert mechanism. By doing so, Member States will inform each other of professional infringements and false evidence of formal qualifications. This will help in the future to rule out cases where, for example, doctors who are banned from acting as doctors in another Member State come to work. Thirdly, the obligation of transparency. The Directive obliges Member States to review and, if possible, reduce the number of regulated professions. The European Commission will further assess whether the regulation of a particular profession is justified. There are currently more than 800 regulated professions in the European Union. However, as little as possible needs to be regulated nationally as this will make it more difficult and costly for people entering the labour market. In addition, it will entail administrative burdens and bureaucracy for both employers and public authorities, but it will probably also damage the economy. When Estonia joined the European Union, together with Finland, Sweden and Denmark, Estonia was among the few regulatory countries, so far the number of regulated professions has doubled. The number of regulated professions has risen to 120 and is, unfortunately, constantly increasing under the new laws. Overregulation is certainly not good for the Estonian labour market. In any case, we take the transparency obligation laid down in the directive very seriously. Finally, the increase in the number of regulated professions in Estonia is also illustrated by the fact that half of this draft is made up of changes in the laws of other areas, which regulate some professions. These laws are actually a lot more. The number of professions covered by the draft is not yet reduced, but these laws designate a competent authority for recognition. The aim is not to forget that the regulation of a profession also entails obligations for the recognition of professional qualifications. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U186	Now the questions. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned that there are professional associations in the European Union that act as closed tsunamis. Is there any way to assess further developments: will these closed tsunamis become all open tsunamis, and will Estonia be included in this list in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U188	Estonia is on its way to the list of over-regulating countries. As has been mentioned, when we entered the European Union, we had twice as little regulation as we do now, and we were quite Nordic, but the laws are creating more and more regulations. In my previous position, I was quite exposed to this as a brake of economic growth when we discussed and took into account the recommendations given to European countries in the area of economic policy, but even more so when we were dealing with crisis countries. And, of course, it is one of the central issues in dealing with crisis countries today. Greece is one of the worst examples of labour market restrictions and closure, which is ultimately a huge burden on the economy there.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U189	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U190	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Many paragraphs state that 'the competent authority may refuse', 'the competent authority issues', etc. Let me get this straight. This competent institution is the Ministry of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U191	No! I'm sure the Ministry of Education and Research is a very, very competent institution, but he's not the only one. It's written down in the law what kind of institution it is. The principle is that there are different ministries-agencies. The aim is that this right is not knowingly passed on to professional associations, or, to say the least, the tsunamis, who would certainly instinctively or consciously hinder competition. They're trying to break that pressure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U192	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur for the Committee on Culture is Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U193	Mr President! Honourable Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Foreign Professional Qualifications Act and related other laws, or 70 SE, was discussed in the Committee on Culture on 14 September. The draft was presented by Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Education and Science, and Tiia Raudma, Adviser to the Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Education and Research. Minister Ligi gave an overview of the most important changes to this bill, and all these changes were presented to Minister Ligi and Tiia Raudma also to the Committee on Culture. In the Commission's debate, Tiia Raudma stressed one particular point: the amendments do not concern professional law or the setting of professional qualifications, but only the recognition of professional qualifications. And this recognition concerns the citizens of the European Union and those positions and professions for which legal qualifications are required. There was more talk about the European Professional Card, which is now being introduced and on which Minister Ligi made it very clear that it is an electronic certificate. With regard to the professional card, the question arose as to the professions in which these cards would be introduced. The answer was that it would be agreed between the countries of the European Union. We were also talking about a warning mechanism that is in place and should be very important for each Member State, but also for individuals themselves. Seven professions or professions were also mentioned, and this regulation will certainly be followed first. By staying in the general direction, it was pointed out that recognition is intended to focus more on individuals' skills and not only on formal papers. And, of course, there was also the trend that Minister Ligi emphasised here that, in fact, there is going to be an effort to reduce the number of nationally regulated professions. The questions raised by the Members of the Commission also touched on two very interesting points. First of all, how this directive relates to national professional examinations and apprenticeships. Tiia Raudma replied that in this case it was a national system and that it did not conflict with the directive. There was also a separate discussion about the recognition of the invitation of people from third countries to Estonia or another country of the European Union. This revealed a very important and interesting point that the state's own regulations remain in force, with the exception of the seven invitations, including the doctor, midwife and teacher. For them, the European Union Directive has agreed on the teaching standards for these professions, and every country in the European Union must follow them. One question was a bit intriguing, and namely whether, when transposing this directive into the Estonian legal area, we can say that our school teachers can go freely to Finland or Sweden or anywhere. The answer was that if his invitation meets all the requirements here, it will also apply in another country. There is certainly no problem or obstacle. The Commission took four consensual decisions. First of all, put a draft of 70 on the plenary agenda by 30 September. Secondly, propose that the first reading be completed. Thirdly, set a deadline of 10 working days, i.e. 14 October, at 5.15 p.m. for amendments. The rapporteur was appointed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U194	There are no questions for the Commission rapporteur. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The first reading of bill 70 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 14 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U195	The next item is the draft law 79, the first reading of the draft law amending the Structural Support Act for the period 2014 to 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The initiator's waitress is Arto Aas, Minister of State Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U196	Honourable Riigikogu! On behalf of the government, I am happy to introduce a bill that will contribute to regional development and bring us additional money. Now, to be exact. The draft law amending the Structural Support Act from 2014 to 2020 aims to clarify in the law the rules applicable to the European Neighbourhood Instrument, the cross-border cooperation programme, following the Commission implementing regulation laying down the rules and procedures for the implementation of cross-border cooperation programmes financed under the European Neighbourhood Instrument. The neighbourhood policy concerns cross-border cooperation at the external borders of the European Union, including cooperation with other countries of the European Union and with neighbouring countries of the European Union, or partner countries. Cross-border cooperation shall aim to promote the integrated and sustainable development of border regions bordering each other. Cross-border cooperation programmes are considered as an instrument of regional policy. In essence, this is the implementation of European Union law, which allows for the implementation of neighbourhood policy programmes in Estonia. This is quite a technical draft, which sets out which institutions and persons are responsible for the implementation of cross-border cooperation programmes in Estonia. These include the managing authority, the audit authority, the joint technical secretariat, the Joint Monitoring Committee, the group of auditors and the inspection contact point. The draft, which can sign the financing agreement on behalf of the Republic of Estonia, also sets out the powers of the Minister's Regulation to establish procedures for determining the eligibility of expenditure and making financial corrections and to establish a database relating to the processing of applications. The bodies implementing the programme differ significantly from the bodies managing projects financed by the Structural Funds. In the case of neighbourhood policy programmes, there are, for example, no implementing bodies or bodies. The managing authority shall perform tasks similar to those of the implementing bodies for those programmes. However, the handling of applications and financing decisions shall be carried out by the Joint Monitoring Committee, which shall be composed of representatives of the countries participating in the programme. In the new funding period, the managing authority of the programme will be located in Estonia. The functions of the managing authority will be performed by the Ministry of Finance. The more precise functions of these authorities and bodies are described in the draft explanatory memorandum. Estonia is planning to participate in the Estonian-Russian cross-border cooperation programme during the 2014-20 period, which aims to support the development of border regions and promote cooperation to improve socio-economic cohesion and competitiveness. The beneficiaries of the Neighbourhood Policy Programme will be agreed on an Estonian-Russian cross-border cooperation programme submitted to the European Commission for approval. According to the transnational agreement, the Ministry of Finance is responsible for the preparation and implementation of this programme in Estonia, which, after the programme has been approved by the European Commission, will assume the functions of joint management body. The Managing Authority, the Ministry of Finance, shall be responsible for the implementation of the entire programme and shall report to the Joint Monitoring Committee on the performance of its tasks. In preparing the programme, the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation agreed on five large-scale projects. In addition to EU funding, these projects are financed from national budgets. These projects are the reconstruction of the promenades and fortresses of Narva-Ivangorod, the project for the development of the Lake Peipus area, which means the development of a network of small ports in Estonia and the installation of waste water treatment equipment in Pihkva region. The road section of Saatse-Krupa and the border points of Koidula and Luhamaa are also reconstructed. The exact financing of the projects will depend on the final budget of the programme. The implementation of the projects will start at the earliest in 2017. According to the European Neighbourhood Instrument's cross-border cooperation programming document, the European Union's contribution to the Estonian-Russia programme is 16.8 million euros; the Ministry of Finance plans to increase the amount of Estonian funding to 8.4 million euros in proportion to the Russian Federation. The total budget of the European Union, Estonia and Russia for this programme is EUR 40 million. Additional national funding allows the programme to support projects and activities relevant to the state and regions which cannot be financed from other programmes implemented in Estonia. Cross-border cooperation projects support the areas of government of different ministries. This includes, in addition to the five major projects mentioned, the provision of public services in local governments and social areas, the development of tourism services and infrastructure, the preservation of cultural and historical heritage, environmental protection, the use of energy efficient and environmentally friendly systems, etc. The aim of the programme is to act on the basis of specific agreed priorities. As previously suggested, this is to improve the environmental protection of Lake Peipus, the investment climate of border regions, in particular in the areas of entrepreneurship, transport and logistics, the development of tourism, the preservation of cultural and historical heritage, such as the preservation of Setus and ancient traditions, as well as the development of people-to-people contacts and cooperation between local authorities. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U197	Questions. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U198	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. It's not bad if, let's say, five programs are Ministry-level. But in earlier times local governments, the Leningrad region, the Pskov region and the local governments of Estonia had made large projects. Is there room for them out there, let's say, in the financial currents?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U199	Thank you. Yes, although the leading institution is the Ministry of Finance, there is, of course, cross-border cooperation on the ground. It is also the idea of this programme that areas on one side of the border cooperate, agree programmes, do jointly agreed things. The feedback has generally been very positive when visiting Southeast Estonia or Peipsi. During the end of the period, the tripartite programme (Estonia, Latvia and Russia) and the positive feedback were positive. Of course, big money is also at stake in regional policy. In this sense, all of this will certainly help to promote this kind of regional practical interaction between people and municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U200	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U201	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. What is the consequence of the fact that in many organisations that have written projects for structural funds and implemented this money together with the EAS project manager, who has co-ordinated absolutely all expenditure, the fact that they have to pay back a certain part of the money is happening over and over again? Will this law be protected against this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U202	Thank you. I am not sure whether this issue concerns this programme. But, as we know, everything that relates to European Union money, this whole process is quite voluminous and bureaucratic, there are many nuances and indeed it is probably not easy to make project applications. I have been communicating with the EAS on other regional policy and programmes, and I can say that their attitude and attitude are more and more that they want to be advisors, not just those who check on black white to see if any conditions are met. They want to involve potential parties at an early stage and advise them in this process so that the problems you have mentioned will not come up later once some expenditure has been made and agreed, but later on during the inspection, it will be clear that the money will have to be repaid. I believe that we have a little more experience and that these things can be done in reasonable cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U203	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U204	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Surely the initiation of this bill is very welcome and the sooner this law can be adopted, the better. Another welcome thing is that the secretariat will be located in Tartu, which is definitely closer to all real points of contact. But I may have a bit of a picky or a more specific question. Here is an interesting sentence: 'In order to develop a draft and clarify legal choices, there has been no development plan. " In short, no development plan has been drawn up. I understand that this is some kind of bureaucratic expression, but frankly, it confuses and may raise questions. Secondly, when exactly could people who want to apply for money from this measure start getting ready, or must they be ready for projects to get hit in the first place?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U205	Thank you. As regards the first part of the question, the planning for development, it is generally agreed at government level that important new draft laws should be preceded by an intention to develop, where the Ministry, in a shorter form, explains why a draft needs to be drawn up at all. The noble aim of this is to cut red tape and legislation so that officials, politicians and ministers can think better about why one law or another is needed. Of course, it might cause double bureaucracy if it is known that some kind of law is needed anyway. Now we know that there is a European Union programme, that there is money, and we want to use it. Fortunately, the intention to develop has been abandoned here, but it would only be pointless to carry out tasks because of a bird. I don't think it works every time. In any case, however, the government wants to conclude the excessive legislation. It's been like this, it seems to me, at least, a rather broad feeling of political consensus, that we'd rather do less and think better, but we don't just write laws. The second question was when to start applying for money. As I said, larger projects have been agreed in a trialogue between the Russian Federation, Estonia and the European Union. There are also open rounds in other sections. The European Commission is currently reviewing these programmes. I believe that perhaps by next year the application lines can be opened and that real action can begin in 2017.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U206	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U207	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, I did not see whether in your introduction you said who could apply for money from this programme. Who are the main beneficiaries? This is certainly a very good programme, because during the previous period the Estonian-Latvian-Russian programme worked very well, and with it very much was done.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U208	Thank you. Beneficiaries can be local governments, NGOs, companies. This will depend on the paragraph of the programme and on the specific sub-target. I believe that this does not differ significantly from what was in the past period. I agree that this is certainly a positive programme, that nothing is being taken away from anyone, that it is being given more.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U209	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U210	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm going to be more specific about this. How much are we dependent on the development of measures in the European Union and how much have we ourselves been able to create conditions for these measures to be implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U211	The cooperation for this programme is tripartite. There are certain general principles at European Union level, and then we are, i.e. the authorities have agreed with the Russian Federation, which are priority areas and projects. These choices, exactly what is done then, are environmental protection, small ports such as Peipsi, some stretches of road, Narva and Ivangorod's fortifications, have been purely an agreement between us and the Russian Federation. But, of course, if we tried to agree on something very strange, the European Commission would probably say stop-stop-stop, it is not exactly within this programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U212	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U213	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. What is the reason why this programme has now become bilateral instead of the previous tripartite programme, and instead of the previous programme, do we and the Latvians have other programmes in place?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U214	Thank you. This has been, to my knowledge, a decision of the European Commission. Perhaps Siim Kisler, who comes here as a representative of the remote commission, knows a more precise answer. He's been working on these programs before at the Ministry of the Interior. But on the other side of the question, I say that with Latvia we also have our own separate programme, Valga-Valka for example, and there are other border projects involving small ports etc. There are different programs this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U215	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U216	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You said that all agreements with the Russian Federation had been reached. I ask for the tantrum: what level did these negotiations take?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U217	I have not been involved in the negotiations, I have been in this office for too little time, but these negotiations took place at the level of officials, as far as I know. In the Russian Federation, I think the Ministry of Economic Development is dealing with this issue, if I am not mistaken. But these regions are also involved. Let us be honest, this is one of the few areas now, if not the only area in which we have fully practical good cooperation with the Russian Federation. It does not make a major policy, but solves common practical problems. For example, the environmental status of Lake Peipsi is a common problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U218	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur for the Commission is Siim Kiisler, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U219	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Finance Committee discussed the draft law amending the Structural Support Act for the period 2014 to 2020 at its meeting on 21 September. Arto Aas, Minister of State Administration, gave an overview of the objectives of the draft. As he mentioned here, the points of the draft law are very technical. The background of the draft is, of course, wider, with the content of the programme. The Commission's discussion asked about the cost of the programme. These sums were also mentioned here by Minister Aas. There was a request for additional co-financing from Russia. The answer was that the financing itself has not yet been deposited in any way, but there is a substantive confirmation of this. There is also a positive experience from the previous period of cooperation when Russia's initiative was in fact to co-finance the Estonian-Latvian-Russian programme with which Estonia went, despite the economic crisis and the difficult situation. The Latvians, by the way, didn't come back that time. In this respect, we have a positive cooperation experience with Russia. The third major topic was asked about these large-scale projects, and their funding from the Estonian-Russian programme does not coincide with the additional funding provided for nearby objects from so-called ordinary sources, the Estonian state budget. It was confirmed that these activities were still separate and funded separately. The Commission unanimously decided to propose the completion of the first reading of the draft and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments on 14 October 2015. To answer the questions asked here, I can explain that it was in fact the wish of the Estonian state to turn the cooperation programme between Estonia and Latvia into two programmes: the Estonian-Russian programme and the Latvian-Russian programme. The reason is that it is easier to agree on projects in this way. At first, the Latvians were skeptical, but the Russian side supported it from the beginning when Estonia proposed it. Later, the Latvians agreed. So there are two programs right now. I hope that there will also be a clause in the final wording, at least in the negotiations, that this was certainly meant to mean that it is possible to include the Latvian party in both the Estonian-Russian programme and the Estonian party in the Russian-Latvian programme, if desired and desired. In practice, cooperation projects tended to be more bilateral, and tripartiteism was often quite artificial. In the case of particularly larger volumes, interest tended to be generally bilateral and the Estonian-Russian programme versus the Latvian-Russian programme competed with each other. Competition was still more in this area. I think it makes more sense to keep programs separate. In the European Union, there is still a separate cooperation programme between Estonia and Latvia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U220	Thank you. There are no questions for the Commission rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations, no calls. First reading of bill 79 is complete. By the deadline for tabling amendments, I will set 14 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U221	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act 68 on the ratification of the Treaty on the Transfer and Sharing of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund initiated by the Government of the Republic. The initiators' waitress is Secretary of Finance Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U222	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will give an overview of the draft law on the ratification of the agreement on the transfer and sharing of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund, which is number 68. The purpose of the draft law is to ratify an external agreement on the transfer of annual payments collected by commercial banks to the European Union's Single Resolution Fund. The agreement also determines how the central resolution authority, or the Board, can use national sub-funds which are gradually merged. According to the agreement, at least all euro area Member States undertake to transfer payments collected from banks to the resolution fund and non-euro area Member States can join the agreement on a voluntary basis. It is known that Sweden and the United Kingdom are currently the only non-addicts. The entry into force of the agreement is necessary for the transfer of the contributions collected by the parties to the resolution fund sub-funds to begin. The SRF is expected to raise 1% of all bank-backed deposits in eight years. This is estimated at EUR 55 billion. The creation of a single European Union resolution fund will eliminate or minimise the possibility of using taxpayers' resources, i.e. public funds, to address bank problems. The Single Resolution Fund (SRF) will be set up in the European Union by the beginning of 2016. The Single Resolution Fund (SRF) and this Agreement are closely linked to the European Union's Banking Union project, which has already established a single banking supervision with the European Central Bank, as well as to the central resolution body established in Brussels. The central resolution authority shall manage and, where appropriate, use the resources of the resolution fund. If a bank encounters difficulties, the central resolution authority, in cooperation with the European Central Bank, will first assess whether it is worth reparating a troubled bank or whether it would be more reasonable to allow it to go bankrupt. If a troubled bank is decided to recoup, before the SRF funds are used, shareholders and larger creditors of the bank will take responsibility, i.e. they will lose their money in full or in part. Only after it has become apparent that this is not enough to restore the bank can the Single Resolution Fund (SRF) be used. The resolution fund may, for example, provide loans, capital injections or acquire a bank's problematic assets. If the bank does not decide to restructure, i.e. the bank is allowed to go bankrupt, the deposit guarantee fund of each Member State itself will pay out the deposits to depositors. This is the Guarantee Fund in Estonia. The Single Resolution Fund will start collecting payments from banks in Estonia The Guarantee Fund will transfer payments from 2016 to the Single Resolution Fund. It is estimated that the larger banks operating in Estonia will have to pay a single resolution fund of 2 to 3 million euros per year, with smaller banks of 2000 to 50000 euros per year. The obligation for banks to make payments to the resolution fund is not a direct consequence of this agreement, but a directive of the European Union and a regulation directly applicable to the management of financial crises. By this agreement, Estonia undertakes only to transfer payments collected from banks to the Single European Union Resolution Fund, and by ratifying this Agreement, Estonia accepts the form in which the funds of the Single European Union Resolution Fund are used. The agreement provides for a Single Resolution Fund to be composed of sub-funds, each sub-fund being owned by a specific Member State. If a bank encounters problems, the funds of the sub-fund of the Member State where the bank is located shall be used first. Every year, however, the possibility of using sub-funds from other Member States is increased. In eight years' time, the sub-funds will disappear and the so-called mutual fund, the common fund, will emerge completely. To date, 26 Member States have signed the agreement. The Government of the Republic approved the draft agreement on 16 May 2014. The Estonian representative signed this agreement on 21 May 2014. The agreement has to be ratified by the Riigikogu, because the law on the Guarantee Fund needs to be amended in order to implement it. The draft law amending the Guarantee Fund Act has gone through a coordination round and will soon be submitted to the government for approval and then to the Riigikogu for processing. It is important to stress that the conclusion of the agreement does not lead to direct budgetary commitments on the part of the State. If the State cannot collect payments from banks and does not transfer them, funds from sub-funds from other Member States cannot be used for the benefit of banks authorised in the territory of that State. Therefore, the draft law contains a declaratory provision that emphasises the sovereignty of the state budget and that the agreement does not impose fiscal obligations on the State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U223	Thank you very much. Minister, there are questions for you. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U224	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Mr. Minister! Can you specify what this sum is at the end of the day? Maybe I missed my ears. That's a lot of money. What happens to it after it's been picked up and sent away? What's that money gonna do?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U225	Thank you. Couple of individuals. The total amount to be collected in Europe in eight years is €55 billion. If you ask where this 55 billion comes from, this is 1% of all bank-backed deposits in Europe. For Estonia, this equivalent is about 30 million euros over eight years. The third question that was in this one question was where the money is going to be or where the money is located. That is why it is the same resolution fund where this money is collected from Member States in the form of annual transfers. Rather, the primary objective is to preserve this money (high liquidity and high credibility bonds that have been issued in a normative manner), not so much to increase this value enormously. Rather, lower risks and a certain potential return than higher risks and higher profitability.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U226	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U227	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You gave a very good overview of everything, and you are always very helpful in answering all the questions. I also asked my question in the Commission. As we know, Sweden was among the three countries that did not join these 26 countries. Since we know that the owners of most banks are Swedes here, the question arises as to how this fund affects the Estonian citizen.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U228	Thank you for that good question. It's very important. I would point out that there are not three but two countries: Sweden and the United Kingdom. The remaining 26 countries are then joining, not to mention all euro area countries. It does not, by itself, have any direct negative impact on Estonia. Sweden itself must create its own crisis management mechanism within its own country, and it is in the process of doing so. Should a problem arise on the basis of the Swedish banking group, it is clear that it will be solved by the Swedish crisis management body and the European Union's central resolution body in cooperation. Our larger banks here in Estonia are in fact subsidiaries, separate legal entities, and belong to the European Union's resolution system, not to the Swedish resolution system. So right now, we're expanding this whole safety net.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U229	Minister, thank you. But there are more questions. Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U230	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. To clarify the question that has just been raised, simply in terms of education and the accuracy of the verbatim: can you explain in more detail why Sweden and the United Kingdom are doing this to this agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U231	Thank you. They have a chance at volunteering. This accession is mandatory for euro area countries and voluntary for non-euro area countries. I haven't done the in-depth analysis that led to it. I guess this is where you look at the pros and the cons. In itself, being part of a larger 'guarantee system', there's a risk that someone might go bankrupt and take some of it away from you. But the other way around, it might be a bigger insurance, because basically, you're going to be covered by additional insurance for other sub-funds, which is going to increase from year to year. It would certainly be worth noting that if there is a problematic situation where there is a need for some kind of disbursement, it is important that, if the required amounts exceed EUR 5 billion, the fund will have a final volume of 55 billion, such decisions will be taken in the plenary of the resolution authority, where all Member States are represented. Hence, it is calculated very clearly whether it is worth putting money in or not. It is not taxpayers' money, it is bank money, but it is still being monitored by all Member States. This is certainly an important observation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U232	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U233	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, We were at the audition meeting with the Monetary Commission on Monday at the Financial Supervision Authority. The statistics from this show that the share of commercial banks of Scandinavian origin in this market is even greater than it was some time ago, I think it is approaching 90%. As long as this municipal bank of Tallinn reaches the market and the situation is changing dramatically, it will also take time. After all, our risks stem from the fact that if there is a real estate crash in Sweden and in Scandinavia at all, real estate prices have increased at a huge rate, it will have an impact on us, too, and our banks will pull back lending. How are we protected against such risks?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U234	Thank you. I think that Estonia itself, in a situation where we do not really have 'domestic banks', has all the capital in the hands of foreign banks, the capital is Estonia's, but it is managed and managed elsewhere, with its advantages and disadvantages. For example, Latvia's Parex Bank had very clearly domestic capital in it, and at the time of the crisis, wrong decisions led to a situation in which the state had to go to rescue the bank, otherwise the country would have had serious problems. Here is rather a good example that Swedish parent banks were able to provide liquidity to their subsidiaries during the crisis. It always has its pros and cons when you're part of one strong group or, let's say, this group is very strongly represented in another region.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U235	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask for a presentation of Urve Tiidus, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U236	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Minister! The Committee on Finance discussed the draft on 15 September. The draft law on the ratification of the SRM agreement was presented by the Minister of Finance Sven Sester and the Head of the Financial Markets Policy Department of the Ministry Thomas Honourable. The objective of the draft proposal, as the Minister has already mentioned and explained in the Commission, is the ratification of the agreement open for signature last May. With this agreement, the Member States of the European Union will, be it repeated here, undertake to transfer the payments collected from banks to the European Union's Single Resolution Fund, which is short-listed as the SRF. At the request of the members of the Commission, the following issues were discussed at length: The same question was asked, to which Mr Sester already replied, how much money would be collected from Estonian banks, for example. The resolution fund is expected to raise 1% of the covered deposits and is therefore estimated to amount to EUR 55 billion, which is referred to as the recommended benchmark. The Fund will be paid by banks and it will take about eight years to reach its target of volume. They asked how the fund's resources would be distributed if this crisis were to occur. It was clarified that each Member State's transferred funds would form a specific SRF sub-fund, but not a separate legal entity, but a dedicated set of assets. If a bank is to be hit by a crisis, there is a simple rule: first, a sub-fund of the Member State that authorised the bank must help and be based on where the parent bank and the subsidiary banks of the banking group are located. Branches are not counted; they are not separate legal entities. For example, if a bank authorised in one Member State encounters problems and decides to use SRF funds, it has been distributed over the years how the sub-fund funds are used. If the sub-fund is not sufficient, the funds in the sub-funds of all the Contracting Parties, i.e. the common part, shall be used. The possibility of using the joint component increases progressively over time. However, it must also be mentioned briefly in the Commission that there may be a need for bridge financing, for example, from its own resources or from the ESM resources, in accordance with the procedures already in place. Europe is still discussing how this bridge financing will take place if, for the time being, less money can make use of these opportunities. This agreement emphasises that the final responsibility for potential expenditure still rests with the banking sector itself. The explanatory memorandum also states that perhaps I speak a little more than the Members of the Commission asked that the willingness to provide public bridge funding is not reflected in the articles of the treaty to be ratified and is not a binding obligation on the participating countries. Who manages the money to be raised and how? The agreement does not lay down the details relating to the collection and transfer of payments, which is decided by each Member State itself. In Estonia, payments will be collected and transferred to the SRF by the Guarantee Fund, as the Minister has already said, the money will be raised into the sub-fund and invested fairly conservatively, for preservation purposes. The question arose as to what would happen if EUR 55 billion were not enough. The answer to this question is in Article 5 of the Treaty, entitled "The operation of the sub-funds'. As has already been said, there are a number of measures that will be taken first, and one is indeed reorganisation. In a crisis situation, losses are first borne by shareholders, creditors, etc. The question also arose as to whether such an endless principle of solidarity would not create problems and a lighter attitude, and whether the money, whether standing or conservatively invested, would not lose its value. It was stressed that the Estonian state also has different financial resources and their objectives are different, which can be both holding and growing assets, and for these funds it is more important to keep assets. Have the risks been assessed when this money might be needed for the first time? Nobody predicted that, and that's not possible. The primary protection against crises is still a single banking supervision and crisis prevention, which is the first filter, but the second filter is resolution mechanisms. The same question was put to the Minister in this Chamber. The Swedes are the owners of the banks, in my opinion, 70%. It was asked that if Sweden had not signed this agreement, would it affect Estonia? It was explained that a distinction should be made as to whether they are companies established in Estonia or whether they are branches. Branches are the responsibility of the country of origin, but Sweden and the United Kingdom have set up their own system and do not receive support from the Fund. These countries started pretty early when the financial crises went against taxpayers' money to create these systems. It was also stressed that large banks are already directly supervised by the European Central Bank. It was also asked whether banks in countries with financial difficulties were participating in this system. The main focus was on Greece and Spain. It was explained to the members of the Commission that the banks in these countries had been subjected to stress tests on the amount of capital needed to be increased and that the programme would not be taken up until the capital holes had been patched up, as was said. No previous problem in the SRF system will be included in this Single Resolution Fund, the key is the same for everyone. Then, indeed, the situation that Mr Sõerd, a honourable member of the Riigikogu, once again mentioned was that if some kind of negative situation arises with real estate in Scandinavia, how will we be protected, because Swedish banks have a large part of our banking system. Yes, it was said that there is a certain risk here, but the same SRF is helpful. Secondly, Sweden has its own resolution mechanisms. We have seen that, even in the most difficult financial situation, Swedish banks have managed to remain stable and have not made our lives difficult. The Committee on Finance made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda by Wednesday, 30 September, and to close the first reading. The deadline for tabling amendments is 14 October at 5.15 p.m. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U237	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 68 must be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting 68 amendments. a 14 October at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the eighth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U238	Let's move on to item nine. The first reading of the draft Act amending the Law on Securities Markets initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U239	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will give you an overview of the draft law amending the Securities Market Act, which bears number 67. The draft has been initiated to bring Estonian law into line with the European Union Directive, which regulates the activities of stock exchange companies. The main objective of the amendments introduced by the Directive is to increase the transparency of the securities market and to alleviate the administrative burden on issuers of stock exchanges. First, in order to increase the transparency of the securities market, the obligation to notify large shareholders is clarified. In the case of acquisition of more than 5% of the share capital of an exchange issuer, the current law requires both the issuer and the Financial Supervision Authority to be notified. Its purpose is to ensure that it is known who the largest shareholders of the issuer are. In the future, however, the notification obligation extends to transactions in more complex financial instruments, through which a 5% shareholding can also be acquired, for example through derivative transactions. Such transactions may not always confer the right to exercise voting rights, but show the investor's interest in the welfare of the issuer and its decision to increase the price of the share. Indirectly, such information will in the future better show individuals who have an economic impact on the decisions of the general meeting of the exchange issuer comparable to that of normal shares. The draft clarifies the rules on how to calculate and report such "complicated" participations. Secondly, several amendments to the draft aim to alleviate the administrative burden on the issuer of the stock exchange. At present, the issuer has to disclose a lot of information about its securities, activities and financial data. It is quite a resource-intensive obligation to produce, print, translate and distribute a wide range of material. All of this means costly and time-consuming activities for a stock exchange issuer. This may be costly, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, and one of the objectives of the draft is to make it easier for them to raise capital on the securities market. Therefore, the period for the disclosure of the issuer's half-yearly report is extended from two months to three months. This will allow the issuer to better schedule the moment of disclosure of the report in order to attract more attention from market participants in the overall flow of stock exchanges. The amendment will also give additional time to prepare the report and allow for more efficient cost planning, reducing the administrative burden for both the preparation of the report and its publication. In addition, the frequency of mandatory disclosure of financial statements is reduced. To this end, the obligation to disclose quarterly interim reports of the issuer's management is repealed in order to reduce the administrative burden on issuers and to discourage investors and issuers from concentrating too much on short-term results. To this end, the law retains only the obligation to disclose the annual and half-yearly reports. The obligation to notify the issue of new sovereign debt of the issuer is also repealed. An exchange issuer is no longer required to submit to the Financial Supervision Authority a draft amendment to the issuer's instrument of incorporation, decision or statutes. The amendment of the issuer's statutes is by law the competence of the general meeting. The draft decisions of the general meeting can be consulted on the issuer's website before the general meeting. The draft concerns only issuers whose securities are traded on a stock exchange. This is therefore without prejudice to the obligations of issuers of securities traded on an alternative market. They are already subject to simpler requirements. The draft will enter into force as a general rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U240	Minister, there are questions for you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U241	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Today there was a Business Day conference at Nordea Concert Hall, where Peter Elam Håkansson, a major owner of East Capital, made such a comparison that the Estonian securities market is similar to that of Nigeria and Bangladesh, not to the European market. He exaggerated a little, but there's not a little truth to it, too, if you look at how few companies we have and what their turnover is. Liquidity is low and it may also allow market manipulation. You've been a minister for a while. How important is it for you that our stock exchange is not like Nigeria or Bangladesh, and what can you do to change this situation? This draft does not bring any cardinal change here, because the explanatory memorandum, where you have assessed the economic effects, states that the impact on the economy is limited. But what do we do?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U242	Thank you, good questioner! I hope that you did not prick the previous Minister of Finance, your party partner, Mrs Lauri, with this question, more than that, I hope you did not prick the Minister of Finance for almost six years, Jürgen Ligi, who is also your party partner. It would be very unpleasant for such pricks to be made in your party. But what do I say? I say we look at the current situation. Today we have 15 issuer shares on the stock exchange's main and ancillary lists, the investor base itself is numerous, but there really are less than 100 large investors. It is clear that there could and should be more companies on the stock exchange. It is their own question for private companies whether they want to come to the stock market or not, whether they want to make additional commitments directly from banks in the form of loans, potential securities or by placing their shares on the market. The private investor has many options. In the case of a country, different positions need to be reviewed. I know that Juhan Parts once got pretty far by potentially entering the market with Eesti Energia. One of your party mates put a hand on it. I cannot say today whether it is good or bad, but I do not think there should be a taboo issue to discuss it from the point of view of the country. Let's leave the private operators out of this. What we are talking about right now is how the private operators who are here on the stock market would have easier regulation, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. It should not be a taboo issue to discuss what kind of property the state should hold in different positions, based on three aspects: the security aspect, the public interest aspect and the dividend policy, or profit making, and the creation of additional added value for taxpayers' money. From these three points of view, we are also discussing what the state should hold, what it should not hold, whether it should be in some position to hold a majority holding and to take some stake in the stock exchange. The White Paper is also currently under preparation, which should reach the table of the Government of the Republic for review in November. Feel free to play along!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U243	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U244	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. One of the objectives of amending this law is to make small and medium-sized enterprises more active. My question has to do with this. How does the Minister appreciate this opportunity and their preparation to be a market participant, I mean small or medium-sized enterprises?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U245	Thank you. To some extent, you see, it agrees with the question put by Mr Sõerd. In fact, the Estonian securities market is still relatively small, there is no one. So what's our capitalization? 8.7% of GDP, if I'm not mistaken, is probably the market capitalisation of all our listed shares. There is not much of that now, either, financially. It is clear that small and medium-sized enterprises themselves know very clearly that, if they go to the stock exchange, there will be certain obligations, there will have to be greater transparency, there will be an obligation to declare all their positions more, but there may also be a positive side that additional foreign capital can be mobilised through the share price or possible preferential conditions. The aim of the draft is still to create a situation for small and medium-sized enterprises in which administrative bureaucracy and administrative burdens would be reduced. I've already listed what these reduction positions are here. If someone should specifically wish to go to the stock exchange, then at least they have to be there and report later on more convenient, not so burdensome, from decisions on possible changes that the Financial Supervision Authority must report at all times to quarterly reports of the management board, etc. The aim is to provide an opportunity to actually reduce the administrative burden.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U246	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U247	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, This is why I came up with a question of wishing to operate on the stock exchange for small and medium-sized enterprises. The directive that we are currently transposing also allows a natural person or a set of assets to be the issuer of securities. We are taking over the directive. Why, then, do we not allow a natural person or some set of assets to be an issuer of securities on a stock exchange? Why such a position, or why have you chosen such a policy in preparation for the draft in order not to allow natural persons or collections of assets to act as issuers?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U248	Dear colleague, we are still dealing with a common matter, we are not here in any way separately. Do not place yourself away from the background system in any way. You are still one of the 101 members of the Riigikogu, more than that, you will certainly enjoy some form of coalition responsibility. This draft is currently at first reading. We will certainly continue to have a constructive discussion at the next readings and your good thoughts are welcome. Through the political group, but also as a member of the Riigikogu, you will be able to propose amendments to this draft and then to further develop the discussion. So don't be afraid to come up with suggestions. It's your constitutional right to use it to the full.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U249	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Finance Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U250	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Securities Market Act at its meeting on 15 September. Let me briefly talk about this debate that we have had. The Minister of Finance presented the draft and, together with the Ministry's officials, answered questions from the members of the Commission. I must admit, of course, that the debate in the committee was short. There was an interest in the way in which the draft coordination process was conducted and whether there were unresolved differences on the table. The response of the initiator and the ministry was that there were no differences on the table and that a further round table could not be considered likely or necessary. Then it was a question of whether the draft concerns the alternative exchange. The draft does not concern this area, it was the answer. The Commission proposed that the first reading be closed, that the Commission be appointed rapporteur here and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 14 October. I stress that these decisions and proposals were consensual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U251	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U252	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Aivar Sõerd! This question is motivated by your last question to the Minister. How many do we actually have, or would there be, natural persons or collections of assets that might be willing to come to the stock market? Is there any way to comment on that? Interesting question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U253	That's why I asked you that it's interesting. Rather, my question was motivated by the fact that if we transpose a directive which provides that a natural person may also be an issuer, what we do is whether we implement this directive or not. But when I went through the draft, I realized that this is still about this directive leaving Member States with a choice. That was the answer to my question. But, in answer to your question specifically, I rather think that the initiators of the draft act were based on the fact that this interest is small. In fact, it is quite costly for a natural person to issue securities or, I don't know, for a self-employed person to simply make economic sense. There are a few countries in the European Union, one of which I think was Great Britain, where natural persons are issuers, but there are different traditions and different developments in the securities market. I do not think we really need or want to do so. Of course, there is another aspect. In Estonia, it is actually very easy to establish a private limited company, which can be done quickly, using electronic means and without paying up capital. There is also one argument that since we have just so easy to set up a private limited company, there is really no practical need.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U254	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 67 must be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting 67 amendments, including 14 October at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the ninth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U255	Let's move on to the tenth item on the agenda. The first reading of the Bill 66 of ratification of the Act on the Amendment to the Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Prevention of Tax Avoidance, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the People's Republic of China begins. The Riigikogu is honoured to see the Minister of Finance Sven Sester again in the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U256	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. It is still my honour to be in front of you and to report to you the draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the prevention of double taxation and on the prevention of tax evasion, bearing number 66. Okay. Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of double taxation agreements is to encourage transnational investment, prevent discriminatory taxation and prevent tax evasion. All Estonian tax agreements are based on the Standard Agreement of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD, and 56 are in force as of September this year. A double taxation agreement was concluded between Estonia and China in 1998. The new Protocol updates the provisions of the current Agreement due to changes in taxation principles in both countries. The definitions of terms are amended and the scope of the exchange of information in tax matters is broadened. The exchange of information in the field of taxation shall be aligned with the International Standard for Exchange of Information. Under the new Protocol, the exchange of information is not limited to the taxes specified in the Agreement and the State may not refuse to provide information solely because the holder of the information is a credit institution or a representative of a person. An obligation to exchange information was included in the agreement if the tax information requested by the State for its own account is not necessary. The Protocol amends the list of taxes to which the Agreement applies. In the case of Estonia, local income tax is withdrawn, which was abolished since 2000. The definition of resident is supplemented by the highest criterion for the seat of the management body, as China will use this criterion from 2008 in addition to the founding place criterion for determining the residence of the company. In the event of the entry into force of the new Protocol, the definition of immovable property shall also cover claims relating to immovable property. The new provision ensures that Estonia retains the primary and unlimited right to tax indirect real estate income related to the participation in a contractual investment fund or other asset pool. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U257	Minister, thank you, too. There are no questions. Priit Sibula, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U258	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! The Finance Committee discussed the draft Act ratifying the Protocol to the Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Tax Avoidance between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the People's Republic of China at its meeting on 15 September. As here, Minister Sven Sester gave us an overview of the bill. The objective of the draft proposal, as Mr Sven mentioned, is to renew the 1998 agreement on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion due to changes in the tax systems of both countries over a period of 15 years. Similarly, individual definitions are specified. Two procedural proposals were made by the Commission: to close the first reading of the draft and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 14 October 2015. The Commission unanimously supported both proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U259	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. The position of the commission is, as we have just heard, to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline for submitting 66 amendments to the draft text. a 14 October at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the tenth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U260	Let's move on to item 11. The first reading of the Bill of Amendment 76 to the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. It is my great honour to ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U261	Good afternoon. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, I will try to fill in the hearing with four drafts for the rest of the time. The first one is the bill to amend the Water Act, this time with the number 76. The Water Act is, of course, one such law, which has been amended dozens of times in history, and the reasons for this have been different. This has often been the case in the last 10 or 11 years because of European legislation and this time too. The Water Act will be amended this time to clarify the mandate rule in order to transpose the new Directive 2013/39/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directives 2000/60/EC and 2008/105/EC as regards priority substances in the field of water policy by the Decree of the Minister for the Environment. Secondly, clarification needs to be made in the regulations on hazardous substances in the aquatic environment due to changes made at European Union level and the practical implementation of regulations. Thirdly, it is necessary to clarify the monitoring provisions on other issues. Fourthly, the two concepts of the so-called "geological storage of carbon" Directive 2009/31/EC must be taken over. Now a little bit more specific about the first amendment, the clarification of the mandate rule. On the basis of the specified mandate rule, the Decree of the Minister for the Environment establishes 12 new hazardous substances and their environmental quality limits, amends the existing environmental quality limits for hazardous substances, provides for a mechanism to review the limit values for hazardous substances and their environmental quality, establishes a "tracking list'. Secondly, other clarifications on the regulation of dangerous substances. These are due to changes in the treatment of hazardous substances in the aquatic environment in the European Union and to the practical application of regulations. The regulation of lists 1 and 2 of dangerous substances is repealed. However, substances in the names 1 and 2 as such do not disappear from the legal area and still need to be dealt with. These substances will be distributed in the future simply among the lists of priority substances, priority hazardous substances and certain other pollutants. This is the organisation of the legal space that has already taken place at European Union level. The regulation on emission limit values for hazardous substances per unit of production is no longer valid, as the directives on which it is based are no longer relevant. For example, the use of many substances is prohibited. Instead, reducing the release of hazardous substances into the environment has been organised by other regulatory measures of the Industrial Emissions Act and the Water Act. Specify what is specifically meant by the chemical status of a body of water. The chemical status of a body of surface water is currently being determined on the presence of any hazardous substances. 'Dangerous substance', however, is a very broad concept. Only a small proportion of all hazardous substances, priority substances and priority hazardous substances and certain other pollutants should be taken into account in the assessment of the chemical status from the basis of Directive 2013/59/EU. Monitoring specifications. According to the specifications, the Environmental Board is given the right to control the passage of fish on rivers other than salmon rivers, which have a barrier of less than one metre and which require the passage of fish. Each time the Environmental Board decides on the need for access to fish in the non-slaughter rivers as a result of an expert assessment or an environmental impact assessment. Such swells shall not require a specific water permit. Where a specific water permit is required by law, supervision is carried out by the Environmental Inspectorate. It is important for the Environmental Board to be given supervisory powers in this case, as the Environmental Board has the most accurate information on the need to ensure the passage of fish. The monitoring also provides for an amendment that, in addition to the Environmental Inspectorate, the Environmental Board and the Ministry of the Environment will verify compliance with the requirements of hydrogeological works, as their officials are members of the Committee on Authorisations for Hydrogeological Works and have the best sector-specific knowledge. The Environmental Inspectorate will also be in charge of monitoring, but it will no longer face the full burden. In order to enhance national supervision by the Environmental Board and the Ministry of the Environment, it is necessary to authorise their officials to also use the specific measures provided for in the Law Enforcement Act. These include documentary checks, forced entry, questioning of a person to obtain data from a person, verification of identity and entry into possession and examination of the possession. The definitions of the Directive on the geological storage of carbon dioxide will be taken over. The European Commission has submitted to Estonia an inquiry into Directive 2009/31/EC on the geological storage of carbon dioxide. According to the European Commission, Estonia has not transposed the terms 'water column' and 'geological formation' of the Directive. Finally, in line with the Estonian Regulation Directive, the Water Act is supplemented by the following terms: a water column from the water surface to the bottom sediment of the water body; a vertical, uninterrupted water column; a geological formation; a litostratigraphic unit within which distinct layers of rock can be found and mapped. The effects of the legislative amendment are primarily administrative and concern those officials who deal with the relevant documents on a daily basis. Thank you. I would like to ask for the draft to be supported and further processed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U262	Minister, thank you. There don't seem to be any questions. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the environmental committee Andres Metsoja!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U263	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed 76 draft laws amending the Water Act at its meeting on 14 September. Mr Pomerants, Minister for the Environment, and Mr Karin Kroon, Head of the Water Department of the Ministry of the Environment, presented the draft and answered questions from the members of the Commission. The purpose of the draft is to clarify the legislation on dangerous substances, including the definition of the chemical status of a body of surface water, to repeal the provisions governing the establishment of lists of dangerous substances 1 and 2 and the legislation on the maximum permissible levels of dangerous substances per raw material or unit of production. As the Minister has already explained, the development of this draft was due to changes at European Union level in the treatment of hazardous substances in the aquatic environment. The Commission did not propose a draft. Proposals were made to send the draft 76 to the plenary session of the Riigikogu by 30 September, to conclude the first reading (consensually) and to set the deadline for submitting 76 amendments to the draft by 14 October 2015 at 4 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U264	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There are no negotiating requests. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting 76 amendments. tho 14 October at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 11th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U265	Let's move on to item 12. The first reading of the draft Act 77 amending the Hunting Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U266	Hello again! I think that my four drafts today are the most passionate of all, at least he's done some before he gets to this hall. I have a festive speech, too, but I will take this opportunity to tell you a little bit about the draft, precisely to you, who have not been very involved in this procedure so far. The fact that an African swine plague is spreading in the Estonian country is probably not news to anyone with the lowest media consumption today. The measures taken to combat it are divided into two parts. One is what is being done under the direction of the Food and Veterinary Office, in particular the so-called biosecurity measures. The other side concerns the eradication of this disease in wild boar by means of hunting measures. Well, in this defensive work, everyone has to stick to their own grids, which doesn't mean there's no cooperation. It is the job of the Minister for the Environment to make a full contribution to enabling us to combat the disease in this area. The legislation that regulates this problem is divided into three parts. First of all, hunting law, it's such a basic document. Secondly, by decree, the Minister of the Environment has established a hunting rule, the possible changes of which the Minister, having, of course, received coordination, can establish without the Riigikogu. That's what he's done. The Director General of the Environmental Board can also regulate the hunting of feral pigs on the territory of the Republic of Estonia. The last two acts have been amended and adopted, already in August. There is now a debate on possible amendments to the Hunting Act. In the Ministry of the Environment, when preparing this draft, all possible changes were written, which, I would stress, should contribute to regulating the population of feral pigs during the spread of the plague, in a simplified way of hunting. Since it was known that on 18 August the Riigikogu would meet at an extraordinary session, we in the Ministry of the Environment gave the draft law our part to the additional vunk in order to be able to pass on this draft then. That's what the Government of the Republic did. Why is this important? Therefore, as the Estonian Hunters' Society quickly got its board together, the changes could be reviewed and discussed, but it was certainly such a fast-paced activity, and therefore there have been different approaches in later phases compared to the original situation before 18 August. But in any case, the bill is in front of you. This has been discussed twice in the Committee on the Environment, and I, as a minister, think that further processing of this draft is absolutely necessary in order to help hunters with their legal space during the spread of the plague. As you all know, for this hunting season, the Director General of the Environmental Board has set the number of wild boars to be hunted at 29600, which has also been distributed by county decree. Statistics show that nearly a third of these animals have been hunted. Although their age and gender composition are not statistically as it should eventually be, there is time and the real hunting season is still beginning. There are a number of points in this bill, but I will stop at those that are more exciting. One of them is the release of game from a motor vehicle by means of an artificial light source. There has been quite a lot of discussion here about what kind of car and how. Those people who are hunters, they know how it's actually done. But the idea is very simple: the car's engine is not running and the shooting is not happening directly from the car, but from the heights to ensure safety. The debate in the Commission was also about how high or low it must be to ensure that the shooting is safe. I can say that, if the artificial light source is legalized, the decree of the Minister for the Environment, which amends the hunting rules, is a place where there is a more precise description of the safety technique than low or high, above all how low a shot could be taken, certainly a specific height in metres or, I don't know, in centimeters, clear cooperation with hunters. Another place that has heated a great deal of passion has also been linked to this amendment, which is worded as follows: 'A hunter is obliged, on the basis of a valid hunting certificate, to grant a free hunting permit for the hunting of small game and wild boars to the owner of his property or his designated person. ' Here's the thought, 'What do you mean, a wild boar is now becoming a small game with a change of law?' If you look at the hunting law today and you look at the law after the adoption of this amendment, you will still find the wild boar among the large wild boars. But indeed, this large game hunting permit should be free of charge to the land owner, who is not a member of this hunter's company, but has a certified hunter, a large game shooting attempt. As I understand it, several hunting societies are now sharing these permits, smoked beans, free of charge among their own. So this isn't such a big deal, taking it apart. It has been said that then there will be no control over hunting, we have taken responsibility, etc. My question is, how does it disappear when the same hunting company issues the permit to hunt this big game and gets it back to the other half after it's hunted? I think there's a full review. But the fears may not have so much to do with the landowner as with the fact that this is not about some kind of sneaking balance in a situation where this authorisation could also be granted to a person designated by the landowner. I've been saying in this debate that if it's some kind of pain in the ass, we're just gonna stop at the landowner. But I'm sure the landlord who's a hunter maybe in another yacht society, not in the place where his home is, isn't the one who's gonna worry the local yacht company. As our legislator, I'm sorry, as your legislator, you should certainly think or think about how these changes will contribute to curbing the spread of the disease. You might think that these are not measures that need to be taken only during this hunting season, because we cannot determine today the date when the disease ends. Hulk experts have also said that it is essential to make the population of feral pigs significantly smaller than it is now. That the date of expiry of the disease is not known, I spoke on purpose in this speech. How should hunters read the law or the law? Indeed, these are only measures at the time of the disease. A possible solution has also been developed for today. When the first reading of the draft is completed, the corresponding paragraphs will simply be reworded in such a way that these specific changes, such as those relating to the same landowner, will only apply for the purpose of combating the swine plague and during its spread. Here the people of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu have already contributed. I'm ready to answer questions. I would ask for this draft to be supported by the knowledge that in the Commission, together with the hunters, we can, together with you, provide hunters with an additional tool to deal with this difficult problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U267	Minister, thank you. You were right, there really are a lot of questions. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U268	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Two years ago, when we argued strongly about what to write in hunting law, there were three groups who argued among themselves: hunters, landowners and farmers. If we talk to hunters or other groups, there's a balance right now. Don't you think we're going to dismantle this balance a little by amending the Hunting Act? This problem, which is under discussion today, is not one that lasts 10 to 15 years. I think we can handle this in five years.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U269	The short answer is, I don't. But the comment might be that, if we did not have the African swine plague at the moment, at the meeting with the representatives of the Hunters' Society, I have confirmed this position, I would have taken the view that I believe we have achieved a hunting balance, let it go on and let us do nothing. But the African swine fever came and these changes are only due to this. I also think that we should not reorganize this world in such a short time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U270	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U271	Thank you. Mr. Minister! We know that the problem and concern of hunters is that when the hunting season begins and this massive hunting begins, they would, of course, like to take healthy pigs to the buying-in. But they cannot do this until they have taken a blood sample and sent it to the Tartu lab, because only this lab is involved in this work. Now there's the problem of where to get these pigs in the meantime, how to transport them, and if they're gonna wait until the lab comes back. The lab's power is very limited. We know that there have been employees, but that is still not enough. How would you shed light on these problems now?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U272	Thanks! Much of the solution to these problems is in the hands of the Food and Veterinary Office, but I am not going to get rid of it either. I attended several meetings today, where the opinions of both sides were on the table. It's not an easy question. Point 1, for today's day, hunting societies and associations also have their own refrigerators, which will certainly help. Secondly, the people of the Food and Veterinary Office have said that they are also being obtained with the help of the state, I do not know the exact situation, I think it was 20 grand. Third, the cold time is fortunately coming. Fourthly, as far as the analysis is concerned, it is allowed that the Tartu lab will start doing these analyses on Sunday from the coming weekend, giving you one more day. Now the question arises, to which I am not well able to answer, is how blood should be delivered across the country on Sunday. Apparently, Cargobus doesn't move. I went to meet hunters in Martna, Läänemaa, about a week and a half ago, where representatives of the Food and Veterinary Office in Läänemaa were also present. They said that if they agreed nicely with their county hunters, when they would come to Haapsalu with this blood on Sunday, for example, then the Veterinarian and Food Board employee would just take the car and take these samples to Tartu. I don't have a better answer here, somehow that's how it should work.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U273	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U274	Thank you, Honourable Vice Speaker. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. When the summer was about changing the Hunting Act to make it easier and more effective to hunt, it was also said that hunters are allowed to use night sights and other things that are not allowed today. As I understand it, this legislative amendment doesn't do these things. Can you explain why?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U275	Thanks! I can say so much that the night vision has never been seriously on the table in the Estonian debate, as I understand it. In Lithuania, this debate is supposed to take place if it is not legalised there. Oh, my God, it's been a silencer. It has been supported by all hunters, but it needs a change in the arms law, and the Ministry of the Interior has always had a difference of opinion. The arms law is "ministerially" to hold them. With regard to the silencer in particular, we did not consider it justified to stretch the debate at the speed at which the draft was initiated, but, in my understanding, the issue of night appliances has not been seriously debated either.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U276	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U277	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. It seems to me that there is no need to amend this law when a third of the pigs have been hunted down without amending the law. As long as we process and adopt this law, all these 29,000 have been hunted down. There is no valid reason to deal with this change. I ask how this basic cause is regulated. As we know, in addition to the domestic galleries, the hogs are also in the forest, I mean, extra feeding. How will it be regulated? The law doesn't regulate it, but does the minister somehow arrange it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U278	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U279	Thank you. I'll start at the end. That's why I don't like the fear of any way to say, the structural change in the hunting of Estonia, that other people will come and organise things. I certainly have not seen it that way as a minister. Theoretically, these individuals could be all the groups you described. Yesterday, in the joint meeting of the Committee on the Environment and Rural Affairs, there was also a representative of farmers who said that bullshit, now they want to take these other people out of here, he lives on the border of two hunting areas, he is not a hunter at all, but wild boars get on his nerves, a friend is a hunter, but now they say he can't hunt a friend there. My sense is that this tension is great precisely because it is feared that we are going to change some sort of world order. Therefore, I think it is enough that this landlord, being a hunter, has passed the shooting test on a large game, gets this right, which does not mean that he has not been given the task of calling away seven pigs for spring in his hunting area, which is somewhere else.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U280	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U281	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Indeed, yesterday there was a joint meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs and the Environment. It turned out that we probably wouldn't get away with changing the Law on Disease Control to look at these things even more widely. However, as a member of the Committee on the Environment, in the context of this amendment to the law, I have been in contact with a large number of interest groups and lobby groups, which is entirely relevant in this case. I understand hunters, I understand farm owners very well, but I've got a little bit of open business for private forest owners. Indeed, the pig does harm in the field, and hunters want to hunt them down and stand up for their numbers. Private forest owners are a very large lobby. I would understand if it was a large game moose that harms a forest juvenile, but the population of pigs in general should not be very damaging to the forest. The question is whether this interest in the context of the swine plague is, in your opinion, genuine.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U282	Thanks! In solving the problems, I have seen very different interest groups with very different levels of sincerity. As far as private forest owners are concerned, they are usually rural people, who are also often hunters. I don't think they should be blamed for insincerity right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U283	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U284	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! What are the conclusions of the Ministry of the Environment itself? Indeed, the plague has spread for over a year, in the meantime there was a representative of a rural party in the ministerial office, and the simple fact that there is no creature, there is no problem, even as was not understood. What is the government's crisis management plan, what is the interministerial cooperation to prevent such a situation from arising again? When will such a plan be presented before the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U285	Thanks! As far as all the measures taken are concerned, they have been introduced. This has not been done in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, but in the Committee on Rural Affairs and the Committee on the Environment, but separately, together. This right place of discussion will then be the National Control Commission, with representatives from both the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Rural Affairs. As I have mentioned here, everyone needs to do their own work. When we come to domestic pigs, one thing is biosecurity measures, but the other is all about the disposal of meat. The Minister for Rural Affairs has to implement these possible measures. One issue that we are not very concerned about in the context of hunting law is that Vireen Väike-Maarja is not able to burn all pig carcasses. One example of cooperation is that the people of the Environment Board should and have been those who find these possible burial places, and those of the Food and Veterinary Office who, when such a case occurs, will have to lead the operation. I think things are getting better and people are getting used to working together.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U286	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U287	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Tell me how many wild boars are in Estonia's forests today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U288	Good question. No one can answer that very accurately. As a zoologist, you know it depends on the season. But I think there's less than 50,000 of them right now, so I guess I've gotten more or less hit. But I don't dare aim straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U289	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U290	Thank you, manager. Good minister! This amendment has a temporary character. Can you specify when the end of this temporary period will be? Is it when the target has been reached that the number of wild boars has remained so low that it will not be smaller, or when the swine plague has been declared to have ended in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U291	Thanks! It is a very common question, but there is no precise answer. I think both options are correct. If taken more broadly, it may happen that the swine plague will be eradicated in the country and that the Director-General of the Veterinary and Food Administration, whoever is in that position at that moment, says that this has now happened and that normal life begins. When we are talking about purely hunting measures, when the number of game monitoring specialists recommended has been reached, it will be 1 or 1.5 sows per 1000 hectares of hunting ground, there will be no exceptional measures like going anywhere further. Then it should be possible to continue with the usual hunting rules and hunting laws and could also be considered to have ended this mission in the sense of hunting law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U292	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U293	Thanks! Maybe after Peter Ernits tells you how it could actually be. First, what's big or small? If, in the last year of hunting, 24000 25,000 specimens have been hunted and now we reach 29,000, the simple mathematics of school says that there is no huge reduction or increase, depending on which side to look at. Indeed, the complexity is somewhere else. It's about whether you eat enough canned meat of wild boar, buying smoked sausage at the store, and all that. That's this side. But what is, let's say, a hunting or biological change, so far the instructions for hunting boars and sows were more or less 50: 50, but now, first and foremost, the emphasis is on sows (60%) and also on piglets, so that it is precisely the potential for succeeding and the population, when it is small, would remain that way. There are very different results in different countries. I don't know if that's right, but I read somewhere that in Finland, for example, there are only hundreds of feral pigs, even thousands of them aren't there. It could be different. But I don't think anyone's afraid that Estonian forests will be left without wild boars.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U294	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U295	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Hunters have recently observed an extraordinary increase in population, especially in the context of African swine fever. Even such "alignments" have been observed that piglets have begun to give birth and other such things. If a population is observed to grow exceptionally in terms of so-called biological survival, can this number, the 29,000+ pig that is set as the norm, be increased?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U296	Thanks! Again, after you talk to Peter Ernitsa, when an old boar can have pigs and all these things. I'm sure the number of pigs, how many there are really, is a bit of a trick question. Again, who did this? He did it himself. Well, those readers are hunters, too. But since there have been snowy winters in the last two years, this reading hasn't gone very smoothly, so it's all very vague. But as I said, it may not necessarily be the mission of this hunting season, but it will continue, it will be counted again, and then it will be looked at where the figures for the next season could reach in order to reduce the number of wild boars.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U297	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U298	Minister, thank you very much. A slightly more philosophical question: could we also conclude from this big pig accident that keeping two pigs in a closed farm and free living in the forest has gone out of control and caused great damage to the first method of pig farming, which is much more expensive? The second one is much cheaper, as we know. Could the mistake we have to deal with right now have come from this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U299	I can't go very well with your thinking right now, at this hour of half six. In any case, I think both ways are necessary. I recall from the past a few years ago the adavere sausage factory's ad saying that carnivores are better lovers. I therefore continue to think it is nice to have pigs in the woods and domestic pigs in the farms.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U300	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask for a presentation by Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Environment Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U301	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Hunting Act, number 77, was discussed in two sessions by the Committee on the Environment. The procedural decisions were taken on Monday 14 September 2015 when Mr Rein Ratas, Mr Metsoja, Mr Remo Holsmer Deniss Borodich, Mr Meelis Mälberg, Mr Raivo Põldaru, Mr Valeri Korb, President of the Honourable Monetary Commission, Mr Elle Kaur, and adviser Viv Aleksejeva took part. Erik Kosenkranius, Deputy Director General of the Environment Board, Minister Marko Pomerants and Head of the Legal Department of the Ministry of the Environment Eda Pärtel were invited. As the Minister said, the aim of the draft was and is to increase the efficiency of hunting in order to rapidly reduce the number of feral pigs and prevent the spread of African swine fever. It must be acknowledged that the previous rapporteur, Mr Pomerants, Minister for the Environment, who is known as the Parliamentary Wolf, answered almost all the questions that were also discussed in the Commission. We must congratulate all the good colleagues who have asked here this evening the same questions that we discussed in the Commission. I will repeat briefly. One question was the use of an artificial light source, the height of which is permitted. The answer was that the heights must be high, indeed, will be resolved by the draft regulation. It was promised that the Estonian Hunters' Society would be involved. Based on the opinion of the active hunters, it was thought to be between two and three metres high. In the same way as in this Chamber just now, it was discussed at length that if the African swine plague is lost from the surface of Estonia, what will become of this law. Answer: The experts of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu have offered a number of solutions, the content of which is that it is worded that one or the other measure is valid during the spread of the plague. This is the amendment that the Committee on the Environment must make between first and second readings. It was also asked, as was my colleague, Mrs Tuus-Laul, whether the laboratory system is proper, whether there is any information on it. The Minister confirmed that the situation is changing. Yesterday's joint meeting with the Committee on Rural Affairs revealed that since this weekend, the laboratory also works on Sundays. So the situation has improved. Procedural decisions were also taken. It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, by consensus it was decided to propose that the first reading be closed, and by the deadline for submitting the amendments, we have a proposal to be set at 4 p.m. on 14 October (also consensually). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U302	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Once again, I will specify the question of the designated person. Did I understand you correctly that, in principle, the initiator of the draft is willing to discuss the deletion of these four words 'or the person appointed by him' in the course of further proceedings?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U303	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No, I don't. The position of the commission is that the first reading must be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting 77 amendments. tho 14 October at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 12th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U304	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U305	Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister, thank you very much. As a hunter, I wonder how this figure, the 19000 that is now left, is the pigs that need to be shot, has evolved and whether the forest remains these pigs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U306	Thanks! You must think that 29,000 have already hunted almost 9,000, and then what about the rest of them? I can tell you, at least theoretically, they die by a hunter's bullet. The Director-General of the Environmental Board has issued a decree in which this so-called quota or need has been distributed by county. I understand, for example, that you could be excited about Saaremaa. There was an initial number of 3400 pigs in Saaremaa and today this figure has been significantly reduced, so 1659 of this 3400 has been hunted, perhaps a little more. Hunters from different counties have expressed the opinion that maybe we don't have so many pigs. At some point, the Võrumaa thought that they had no pigs at all, but if the number of Võrumaa was originally 1400, 285 pigs had already been hunted there, and there will probably be more. The Director-General of the Environment Board has said that if taken according to periods, for example, November could be the time to look at whether there are any anomalies in which they consist and how to deal with this situation. The goal is not to hang someone here, but to see how to move forward together.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U307	The answer is yes. Even before the first formal procedure was before the first reading, I suggested, in August, that if this is such a sharp place, we go past it and move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U308	The Minister himself does not have to organise this either, because it is already done, at least in theory. Of course, thank you for your optimism! If all the hunters were as optimistic as you, I would have come here for nothing, but in real life this is not the case, the more pessimistic hunters are also out of place. However, on 18 August 2015, the Director General of the Environmental Board issued an order 'Organisation of hunting for wild boars in the feral pig population in the territory of the Republic of Estonia', where there are orders from the whole joru. The sixth of these is: 'The additional feeding of feral pigs on the territory of the Republic of Estonia during the period 01.10. to 30.04. (So tomorrow. (M.P.) The use of baits in stalking hunts from a high seat, where the feed shall be not more than 100 kg and no more than 10 kg of grain and/or legumes, including peas or maize, shall be permitted. For self-flowing baits (Technology has reached the forests. (M. P.) The daily delivery should not exceed 10 kg. The distance between the bait points shall be at least 1 km and the bait shall not be more than 150 m from the top seat. ' To be more specific, it is regulated for this hunting season, not longer, but the Director General of the Environmental Board can always do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U309	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U310	Thank you. Dear Minister, The current amendment of the Hunting Act is due only to the spread of African swine fever in Estonian forests. The plague has already done very extensive economic damage. Frankly, we do not know how long it will be in our forests and how much damage will eventually be. But if you could say that, there's a good side to this. Fortunately, this plague has in no way been a threat to human health. You have certainly made this area very clear to yourself in the development of these anti-terror measures. Here comes my question. What lessons can be learned from this plague, which is spread among wild boars and which is not dangerous to humans, in order to be better prepared in the future if we are again to be affected by a disease spread among animals? How can it be better repressed? Can you propose anything right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U311	Thanks! These measures can certainly be divided into several parts. As far as wild animals are concerned, efforts must be made to achieve the abundance that experts have offered for the forests of Estonia. Speaking of combating disease as some kind of crisis, I think my colleagues from the Ministry of Rural Affairs certainly have some points of thought here. These discussions have also been held. One example is the current county base. When I was the governor of Lääne-Viru, there was a time when there was a county principle in general crisis management. As a governor, you want to feel like a great crisis manager and manager. But in a serious situation, you might face it pretty quickly because the manual runs out of lines and the resource runs out. After all, there are four regions in the field of rescue. The chief is the director of the region, who is a professional rescue director, you can say that, and there are certainly more lines in his manual or teaching. If we come to the Jõgevamaa case, for example, where we got to the burial, right, it was the same county, but it was different edges. I don't know, I haven't looked at it that way, but maybe with a different crisis management and a different division of tasks, this burial place would have been perhaps in some village in Tartumaa. This could be a good example. The contingency plans are all there in our country, but they've been pretty general so far. There is a need for improvements of this kind, that it is all written about who belongs to the crisis committee or the disease control committee, but once the bodies are loaded onto a truck, we need to know what these further actions are. For the next time, we hope that they will not be described.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U312	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U313	Mr. President! Mr. Minister! I myself am a quite passionate hunter from Valgamaa. I am not going to argue here today about what the Latvians did and what they gave the hunters, but they managed to limit the spread of the swine plague. It's been a hell of a year since the first plague-dead pig was found in Koorküla. I think it's such a dark sign of the law of hunting to just distract the government from the work they didn't do. Admit it honestly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U314	Thanks! There was no question. I disagree.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U315	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U316	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! You're coming out now with the wild boars to be put on the famine tomorrow and outlawed. Your predecessor a year ago, on the contrary, pushed the second pedal to feed the forest decisions boldly. Did you think it was wise? Or do you think it makes sense that one minister does one and the other, and the damage is catastrophic?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U317	Thanks! Different ministers do different things, sometimes in the same area. As a zoologist, you know it's stupid to feed ducks.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U318	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U319	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, please be so kind and tell us a little more about these potential landowner-appointed persons. Who do they mean? Are these, I don't know, landowner's relatives, hunters in another hunting area, or, excuse me for perhaps a foolish guess, perhaps tourists? I don't know, maybe someone else. Who is the subject, and why do many hunters not like this point in this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U320	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. The earlier answer urged me to ask how this sudden decline in population will affect the future. Will the population recover faster, or, on the contrary, will it remain small, and what period would this be? Is there any way to explain that? It's a zoology thing, like you said.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U321	Let's move on to item 13. The first reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, on Iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland during the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) begins. It is a great honour to ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U322	Thanks! Ladies and gentlemen, It's just a legal procedure, and I'm asking you to go through with it. But here's a little bit of a thing. The Doha Conference on Climate Change in December 2012 established the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol for the period from 2013 to 2020. Annex B to this Protocol sets out legally binding emission reduction targets for the Parties, i.e. developed countries. These parties include the European Union, its Member States and Iceland. Estonia has already ratified the Doha Amendment. February 18th, it concerns our own responsibilities. The Parties to the Protocol may jointly fulfil their obligations and during that period Iceland has expressed its wish to fulfil its obligations with the European Union and its Member States. To this end, an agreement was concluded setting out the conditions governing Iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of its commitments. The European Union and its Member States do not undertake any additional commitments under this agreement, but Iceland agrees to make the same commitment as the European Union to ratify this amendment, i.e. to keep the average annual emissions of greenhouse gases in the years 2013 to 2020 below 80% of the emissions of the base year 1990. This commitment is based on the emission reduction targets set out in the 2009 European Union Climate and Energy Package. The Republic of Estonia signed the agreement on 25 February. The Icelandic Treaty must now also be ratified in the Riigikogu, which is why I ask you, good members of the Riigikogu, to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U323	Minister, thank you. No questions. It is. I'm sorry! Let us be faster when we press the button! Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U324	Good President! Good minister! Would you be more specific about man-made greenhouse gases? When a volcano erupts in Iceland, greenhouse gases are known to come out badly, but they are unlikely to control it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U325	Thanks! That's right. Indeed, neither the European Union nor Iceland can afford any reduction in nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U326	There are more questions. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U327	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Mr. Minister! Let me get this straight: we can help Iceland now if we vote 'no' and they do not have to join the greenhouse gas protocol?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U328	Thanks! We are still helping Iceland only if we are in favour of ratifying it so that they can stand up for our common space with us.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U329	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U330	I have a question to clarify the previous question. Is it Iceland's initiative that they want to do this with Europeans, or is it a European initiative that is so-called imposed on Iceland?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U331	I assume it's still the first option. Iceland itself wants, at least on some issues, to act together with the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U332	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Environment Committee Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U333	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment met to discuss this issue on Monday 21 September 2015. All members of the Environment Commission were present. Among the invited were Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, and Signe Aaskivi, adviser to the Climate and Radiation Department of the Ministry of the Environment. In the Committee on the Environment, Rein Ratas, the vice-chairman of the Committee on the Environment, best sums up the question: 'If I am not mistaken, Iceland is part of an economic zone with the European Union. Does this one economic space not automatically give rise to Iceland's wish to act in sync with us, and we must ratify this document? ' The Minister for the Environment Marko Pomerants replied that if he had not, these international commitments would not be ratified, so they would be mutually recognised. Vice-Chairman Rein Ratas summarised this point in the Commission as follows: 'So Iceland, as a 29th citizen, wants to take one step with us. Let's give them a chance. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U334	And some procedural decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U335	Procedural decisions were taken by consensus: the Committee on the Environment decided to send the draft to the plenary session of the Riigikogu today, to propose that the first reading be closed and to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 4 a.m. on 14 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U336	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no desire. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 60 amendments, including 14 October at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 13th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U337	Let's move on to item 14. The first reading of the draft Act amending the Waste Act and the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Once again, we are pleased to ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech, none other than the Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U338	Here I am. First reading of Bill 75. It is a draft law amending the Waste Act and the Environmental Charges Act. From this long headline, please don't get excited. Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You have received a draft law amending the Waste Act and the Environmental Charges Act prepared at the Ministry of the Environment. It amends the provisions on harmful effects of waste in the Waste Act in relation to changed European Union law. The amendments are of a technical nature, the references to the new legal provisions are replaced and the regulation is regulated. With effect from 1 June 2015, the Commission Regulation on the classification of hazardous waste shall apply in all Member States of the European Union. Due to the entry into force of the new, directly applicable EU legislation, the provisions of the Waste Act will also be updated and the implementing legislation on the classification of waste will be amended. The provisions on the classification of waste as hazardous and non-hazardous waste are specified and updated. The amendments proposed by the draft act aim to simplify the provisions on the classification of waste. Due to the entry into force of the directly applicable legislation, the design of implementing acts on the classification of waste will also be reviewed by bringing the relevant requirements into a single implementing act. In this context, the Waste Act amends one of the mandates and adds references to European Union legislation. Due to changes to the Waste Act, the reference is also amended in one section of the Environmental Charges Act. The amendments proposed by the draft act do not have any significant impact as they regulate the provisions of the Waste Act due to changes in European Union law. The current principle of classification of waste is not changed. Preparations will be made for the creation of a new implementing act bringing together the provisions on the classification of waste into a single legislative act. This will greatly facilitate understanding and compliance with the principles of waste classification. In conclusion, I note that this is a bill that brings Estonian legislation into line with European Union legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U339	Dear Minister, You have questions. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U340	Good President! Good minister! The explanatory memorandum states that the amendment of the law does not entail direct costs for local authorities, for example. However, it is known that any amendment of the law will cost local authorities even if some people have to work to set standards. Are you sure there won't be any extra expenses?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U341	Thanks! I can stick to what was written in the explanatory memorandum that the implementation of the law does not lead to additional activities or costs for the state and local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U342	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U343	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. However, as a domestic waste operator, I ask you to reconsider whether this classification of waste as hazardous and non-hazardous waste also creates practical needs for people or for companies that have been busy classifying this waste for years. Will there be any change?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U344	Thanks! I can tell you it won't.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U345	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Now, good colleagues, please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Environment Committee Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U346	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Waste Act and the Environmental Charges Act 75 was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment on Monday, 21 September. All members of the Environment Committee and invited by Minister Marko Pomerants of the Environment and Peeter Eek, Head of the Ministry's Waste Department took part. As in this Chamber, the Commission was asked twice precisely that, although we are talking about the Waste Act and the Environmental Charges Act, whether anything will become more expensive, whether it will become something specifically for the company, the local government or also the government. The answer was not because of this law. Three times and three different ways were asked, but both Peter Eek and Marko Pomerants kept their words on all three occasions. Procedural decisions were also taken: to send the draft to the Riigikogu's agenda by today, 30 September, to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped (consensually) and to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft be set at 4 p.m. on 14 October 2015 (also consensually). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-30_U347	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Representatives of all political groups have the opportunity to participate in the negotiations. No calls, no negotiations. The commission has been confident and wishes to finish its first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting 75 amendments. tho 14 October at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 14th item is also closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 5.47 p.m.
