ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U1	Good fellows, good morning. We will start the 5th working week Thursday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. Please, Arthur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U2	Good morning, good chairman and good ambassadors. Six members of the Free Party Group would like to refer an inquiry to Mr Pevkur. This concerns the Police and Border Guard Board, which is one of the most reformed agencies in the Republic of Estonia. Since the beginning of the reform, the number of employees there has fallen by about 1000 and, in the last year, the number of employees there has also been reduced by 200. This will save EUR 4.5 million. At the same time, the Police and Border Guard Board is expected to be more capable. Our questions relate to how the Ministry of the Interior intends to increase the capabilities of the Police and Border Guard Board in a situation where no additional money is allocated, internal security in the state budget has decreased and the possibilities for internal optimisation of the Police and Border Guard Board have been exhausted. In short, the Free Party Group will put six questions to Mr Pevkur on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U3	There's no more calls. I have adopted an inquiry on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings. Let's move on to the messages. Today, after the end of the plenary session, there will be the start-up meetings of the two support groups in this Chamber. Firstly, the founding meeting of the group on prevention of close relationship violence and support for victims, convened by Liina Kersna, Helmen Kütt and Maire Aunaste. We're looking forward to active participation! Secondly, the founding meeting of the Tartu and Jõgeva County Support Group, which is convened by Peeter Ernits. We are also looking forward to active participation there. Good fellows, we'll do a presence check. 79 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 22.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U4	Let's start working on the items on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Customs Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There are no requests, so we can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 22 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents, no abstentions. The draft law amending the Customs Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 22 has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U5	Let's move on to the second item. The first reading of the Bill 104 of the Riigikogu's decision of Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, 'Freedom of a Member of the Supreme Court, Tõnu Anton' begins. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs Kalle Laaneti!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Seim in Lithuania, who are sitting on the balcony upstairs! This draft decision was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 12 October 2015. The President of the Supreme Court explained that on 22 September 2015 the Supreme Court Tõnu Anton submitted an application to the Chairman of the Supreme Court asking the Riigikogu to propose that he be released from office as of 27 April 2016 on his own request regarding the age of retirement and the wish to remain on the retirement pension of the judge. As you know, the dismissal of judges of state goes through us, or the Riigikogu. The debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was relatively short and concrete. It was a question of whether the honourable judge of state, Tõnu Anton, could not be the person who would receive a decoration from the President on the occasion of the next anniversary of the Republic. We agreed with that idea, although by the procedure we do not have the right to nominate anyone to receive the decoration. Maybe the president will read a verbatim, understand our thoughts, and respond to this request. But we can certainly do so by applauding the honourable judge Tõnu Anton for his good work. So I suggest you applaud him. [[Let's hear it.]] So what was decided? It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 22 October 2015 (consensually), to propose that the draft be put to the final vote (consensually) and to appoint Mr Kalle Laanet, President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U7	Good waitress, you have questions. Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U8	Thank you. Honourable waitress! On the one hand, it is clear that if a person wants to retire and is entitled to retire, he or she will apply. This does not require any employer's approval in practice. But I have a purely practical question. Tõnu Anton applied for retirement, which the Riigikogu must confirm. Is it even right that the Riigikogu still needs to approve this separately? For example, the situation may arise either in this case or it can also be said in a purely hypothetical way that the Riigikogu does not approve the dismissal of a judge of state. What happens then?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U9	Thank you, good penguin. § 99 of the Courts Act states very clearly that the Supreme Court is dismissed by the Riigikogu on the proposal of the President of the Supreme Court. I agree with you in this sense that there is a small conflict of laws here, but then the Riigikogu hopes that there will be no such strange situation that the Riigikogu will not accept the will of a person.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U10	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Please provide information on the state of the replacement of Tõnu Anton, a member of the Supreme Court. Are there any new candidates for membership of the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U12	I owe you an exact answer to what stage it is. As you know, the court administration council is discussing potential candidates, the political groups are going through and finally the proposal comes to the grand hall of the Riigikogu. So, good questioner, I can answer that question once I've specified it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U13	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I am asking about the intellectual interest raised by Mr Borodich's question. What happens if we don't press the green button? So what's the theoretical follow-up?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U15	I owe you the answer to this theoretical question, which will practically happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U16	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The position of the commission is to put the draft decision to a final vote at first reading. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 104 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 72 members of the Riigikogu, there are no respondents and there are no abstentions. Draft 104 of the Riigikogu's decision of Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, 'Freedom of a Member of the Supreme Court, Tõnu Anton', has been adopted as a decision. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U17	Let's move on to the third item. Riigikogu's decision "Revocation of a member of the Board of the Estonian Development Fund and appointment of a new member', submitted by the Economic Commission, begins the first reading of the draft 109. Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Economic Commission for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U18	Very esteemed Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U19	Let's say hello to the Chairman!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U20	Manager! This draft decision is submitted because Jevgeni Ossinovski, who had received a mandate from us to represent the Riigikogu on the Estonian Development Fund Council from 1 June 2015, has in the meantime been appointed as a member of the Government of the Republic and can therefore no longer be a representative of the Riigikogu in the Council of the Development Fund. The mandate of Mr Ossinovski as a member of the Board of the Development Fund was suspended from 14 September. On 7 October, the Group of the Social Democratic Party addressed the Economic Commission and proposed the appointment of Urve Palo as a member of the Council of the Development Fund instead of Mr Ossinovski. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this issue in two sessions. October 12th first. At this session, Urve Palo's candidacy was supported by consensus and it was also decided to initiate a draft decision of the Riigikogu to recall a member of the Supervisory Board of the Development Fund and to appoint a new member. On the second occasion, the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this the following day, which is October 13. Then, in principle and in substance, the draft decision was approved and the following procedural decisions were taken: to appoint Toomas Kivimägi (consensually), to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 22 October 2015 (consensually) and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote (also consensually). Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U21	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U22	Thank you, good manager. Good chairman of the committee! What was the debate in the Commission? Could a representative of the opposition also be a member of the Council of the Development Fund in order to make governance a little more open?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U23	Indeed, as I suggested earlier, in fact this composition decided on the distribution of seats in this large hall, essentially on 1 June, when we first discussed the candidates for this Riigikogu membership in the Council of the Development Fund. On 12 October, at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I raised the issue of whether it makes sense for us to heat up our hopes and turn to all the political groups, once again asking all the candidates for the position of a member of the Council of the Development Fund. After all, the large hall made a substantive decision on how the seats were distributed on 1 June, as I referred to earlier. I didn't think it was very pragmatic to ask again. Another reason why we did not start asking all the political groups for a second time before the vote on 1 June was that next week there will be a meeting of the Council of the Development Fund and it is good that both representatives of the Riigikogu will be there. We all know that big decisions are coming about the development fund. Today, this topic is on the agenda of the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu. That was another reason why we didn't do it. At the Commission meeting, the decision was consensual. Everyone said we weren't gonna ask again. Therefore, in order not to waste your time, I did not consider it necessary to turn again to all the political groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U24	Waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The commission has proposed that the draft be put to the final vote at first reading. Let's start preparing it. Good fellows, I'm going to vote the final vote on bill 109. Please take a stand and vote. There were 62 members of the Riigikogu, 5 against and 5 abstentions. Draft 109 of the decision "Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund and appointment of a new member" submitted by the Economic Commission has been adopted as a decision. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U25	Let's move on to item number four. This is an overview of the activities of the Estonian Development Fund in 2014-2015. Before going to the processing of this point, good colleagues, let me briefly introduce the procedure resulting from § 155 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures. First of all, Pirko Konsa, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Development Fund, is a presentation that lasts up to 30 minutes. Then there are questions for the waitress. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Then there are negotiations where only the representatives of the political groups can speak. It is my great honour to ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu by Pirko Konsa, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Development Fund!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U26	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U27	We certainly welcome the Chairman of the Riigikogu, there he goes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U28	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The aim of the Development Fund is to support changes in the Estonian economy that help to modernise the economy, ensure growth in exports and create new highly skilled jobs. I will give you an overview of the activities and future plans for the last year of the Estonian Development Fund for next year. I will tell you more about our investment activities, how we support start-ups in Estonia more broadly, and about monitoring development. Less than five years ago, two Estonians founded a company with an estimated value of more than EUR 1 billion. This company has 250 people working in Tallinn's office, their gross wage is on average 2,000 euros, which is twice the average wage in Estonia. In the recently published Äripäev's rich ranking, Kristo Käärmann was the first and David Hinrikus was the third. Their company TransferWise has already become part of the image of Estonia in the world. The purpose of the Development Fund is to ensure that more and more companies are born in Estonia and that it is as good as possible for them to operate here. Our focus is not only on start-ups, as in this particular example. Our focus is on all companies that want to create new, valuable solutions primarily for the whole world, but also for Estonia. Now I'm talking about investments. In 2008, when the Estonian Development Fund started investing, we were a pioneer in this field in Estonia. In addition to the Development Fund, only Ambient Sound Investments, created by Skype's founders, made venture capital investments. The Riigikogu assigned the development fund to give impetus to the venture capital investment market in Estonia. By making investments in the capital provided by the State, we must always attract at least half of the investment volume from private investors. This ensures that the solutions we invest in are not only attractive to the state, but also have the confidence of a private investor. In seven years, we have invested a total of EUR 14 million in 22 companies, plus EUR 40 million from our co-investors. In total, it will amount to EUR 54 million. These companies offer more than 200 jobs in Estonia and in addition to nearly 100 abroad. I dare say today, standing before you, that the venture capital investment market in Estonia has undergone very rapid development, being far from perfect but fully functional. Estonian start-ups have mobilised more than 170 million euros from investors in nine years, more than half of which in the last two years. The majority of investors do not come from Estonia. Creating credibility in investing in Estonia has been a priority of the Development Fund since we were founded. In addition, the Development Fund has also established the Estonian Business Angels Association and the Estonian Private and Venture Capital Association. Of the first 25 founding members, 12 are currently co-investors of the Development Fund. The portfolio managed by SmartCap, a subsidiary of the Development Fund, consists of 16 active companies. The total value of the funds we manage is EUR 35.8 million. All these companies are trying to offer the world something completely new and unique, which replaces the solutions currently in place. The funds managed by SmartCap are among the most successful early-stage venture capital funds in Europe. During the year, we have left two investments, or sold our shares in these companies. These companies are Fits, a virtual locker room service. We and GrabCAD, which provides a cooperation platform for engineers. In both cases, buyers were large companies listed on international exchanges. These sales were also successful because both companies continue to operate in Estonia, offering high-wage jobs to the people of Estonia and bringing additional investments here. After these two exits, we've made three new investments. As I noted, the venture capital market in Estonia has undergone rapid development in recent years. We can see that the role of the Development Fund in this context must change and focus only on those bottlenecks that the private sector cannot deal with alone. To this end, we are changing our investment strategy. We will stop direct investment in companies. Instead, we are planning to invest in at least three private capital business accelerators that focus on financing companies that are taking the first steps. Making innovative ideas and products and services based on them a functioning and viable business is a skill that is highly valued in the world. The value of TransferWise or any other start-up is not based on technological innovation. Their success is due to the ability to turn their solution into a viable and profitable business. What is the environment that favours the creation and start-up of a globalised start-up company or, more broadly, entrepreneurship at all? Imagine a country where entrepreneurs are highly valued in society. A country where entrepreneurs are not branded as OÜrs. A country where error is neither condemned nor feared but seen as an opportunity to learn, and where entrepreneurial learning is practical and high-level. A country where the legal environment does not hinder the operation of airlines. A country where laws are clear and understandable to foreign investors, creating sufficient trust in them to invest in these companies. A country where a number of successful international entrepreneurs come from who want to contribute back with their experience and money. The Development Fund has set itself the goal that Estonia should be known as the best place in the world to create a start-up company. To achieve this, we launched Startup Estonia. The programme will focus on the following activities: We develop the skills needed in people to create global business, contribute to having enough smart capital in Estonia, carry change in the legal environment, contribute to making entrepreneurship education more practical in cooperation with Estonian universities and develop cooperation between different market participants. In the last year, we have trained nearly 100 people from 71 companies on how to increase sales and move to international markets, how to improve cooperation between start-ups and large companies, and how to reach the start-ups so far that the idea is a marketable product. These figures will increase significantly in the coming years. The Development Fund is convinced that in Estonia, information technology has received a great deal of attention in many other areas than the development of new businesses and products. For the first example, this year we launched a programme for green technology companies, where we provided support and expertise to ten teams. One of them, Relade, a company from Tartu, was chosen by investors in Europe to be among the three companies with the greatest potential. This company is in the process of developing multi-use washing powder, combining nano- and biotechnology, which saves the environment by reducing the waste from laundry. This is a good but unfortunately a rare example of Estonian science reaching entrepreneurship. We are convinced that there is much greater potential in the application of environmental technology in Estonia than we are currently using it. As another example, I would like to point out the amendment of the Commercial Code. Under the direction of the Development Fund, the proposed amendments to the Commercial Code became more understandable and reliable for foreign investors. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the swift processing and adoption of these changes. As a new task, we want to change the legal environment so that it is as convenient and flexible as possible to enter Estonia without compromising security issues. We are open to outsiders in words, but in real life we make them suffer in a bureaucratic machine and make them feel like they are not welcome here. Margus Uudam has said very well that 20 years of experience can only be gained in 20 years. It would be naive to hope that the success story of Estonia, as a country offering solutions that change the world, will be born overnight. We must work to create the conditions that would allow world-conquering business ideas to be born and grow in Estonia. This requires a new generation of entrepreneurs with experience in building a global business to grow up alongside current businesses. We should not be afraid to involve the talents of the world and their experience in building an Estonian success story. Skype's founders were one of the first to invest in technology companies in Estonia. With the help of GrabCAD's founder, 3D printers reach Estonian schools to contribute to our students' technology education. Such positive examples can be further highlighted. Last week, 70 entrepreneurs went to Estonian schools to share their knowledge in order to inspire young people to be their own employer in the future. Entrepreneurs who have started their success story in Estonia want to contribute back here with their knowledge, money and network. Our job is to accept what they offer. Next, I will tell you about the monitoring of development. This is not just an analysis; it is important to achieve the desired results. To this end, we also need to describe possible scenarios for the future and choose the best of them, agree on a common, far-reaching goal that we want to reach, and monitor progress towards the goal. The decisions we are making along the way will have an important and bearing role for you, Honourable Members of the People's Party. The task of the Development Fund is to help you as much as possible in these discussions. What is Estonia where we want to live in 15 or 20 years? The world around us keeps changing. The dialogue on Estonia's long-term goals must also take place on an ongoing basis; it cannot be a one-off task that can be solved as a campaign. For our part, we have initiated the Development Forum 'Estonian Road 2030'. We will present our proposals on Estonia's long-term goals to the Riigikogu at the beginning of next year. Just as development units in companies are exploring possible new solutions and must therefore benefit from it, the role of the Development Fund is to be a national development unit. This year, we will contribute around EUR 1 million to monitoring development, and we have set ourselves the goal that we must propose value offers of at least EUR 100 million for this. So the ratio is 1 to 100. Both in terms of investment and in terms of monitoring development, it is our job to look for completely new solutions, i.e. rocky innovation. The aim of the Development Fund, as the development unit of the Estonian state, is not to look for solutions that will help us operate 5% or 10% more efficiently. I'll give you an example. Pareto 80: 20 says that 80% of the work is done within 20% of the time and vice versa. The same principle is currently valid in the Estonian electricity network. Did you know that 40% of the total electricity consumed by consumers via the electricity grid will be 96%? The remaining 60% will be used to get the last 4% of consumers. At the moment, it is not a question of how to improve the efficiency of the existing network. The question is, instead, how does this 4% of electricity lead to consumers without needing a network? If the number of people is limited, we must make the best possible use of their skills and talents. If large countries can succeed in many areas, then Estonia must be smartly able to specialize. He must make choices in which areas we have the greatest potential to stand out in the world. With the smart specialisation process, we have identified areas where the potential for cooperation between science and entrepreneurship is greatest and where the use of the European Union's Structural Funds would benefit most. What are the trends that we believe will have a significant impact on the Estonian economy in the future? The widespread spread of information technology, the ageing population, the increase in climate problems and the loss of non-renewable natural resources are changes that are so self-evident that we often forget to talk about them. These trends have long been confirmed by research. The hope that Estonia will somehow remain untouched by them is very naive. But in order, for example, not to find out at any moment that we do not have enough people at work to support the social system, we need to prepare for change and bring solutions into practice today. When it comes to the health economy, we must start with an ageing population. Demographic analyses show us how life expectancy is increasing, but the number of healthy years of life remains at the same level as today. That means more people to support, and less people to support. The increasing burden on the social system requires innovative solutions to provide health services and a focus on disease prevention instead of disease treatment. The average Estonian man lives healthy 53 years, the average female 57 years. We know that retirement age begins at 63 years of age. These figures speak for themselves. We therefore need to find an answer to the question of how to increase the number of healthy years of life. At present, an additional 14000 healthy people on the labour market will be added to the average for every year of their lives. The positive impact of such a change, reflected in increasing tax revenues and expenditure saved by the social system, can be measured in hundreds of millions of euros per year. We are used to talking about healthcare as a strictly regulated area and the cost burden on the state budget. Today, however, I would like to present this as an opportunity to raise our welfare. Ageing is not just a problem for Estonia, it is a global problem. New services and solutions in healthcare are also needed outside our country. I would like you to see the creation of new health services as an opportunity for growth and jobs. We have an e-Governance success story where we are known as a quick tester and implementer of new solutions. This is where the smallness of our country becomes a competitive advantage. I believe that health care also has great potential for both Estonian entrepreneurs and the public sector to offer the world something unique. The first step in this direction would be to open up Estonia's health care system to private business and make it a suitable breeding ground for new products and services. We need to be open to market changes, create flexible business models and provide economic incentives to tilt the proportion of total healthcare costs towards health promotion and prevention. Investing in the increase in healthy life years should not only be an interest of the state but also of people and businesses. Incentivising changes in the health sector requires cooperation between different ministries and also business companies. The task of the Development Fund is to analyse and look for new solutions and to be the initiator of change. To achieve this, we must pay attention to the tax, legal and economic environment. We also take the health field into the Startup Estonia programme as the next area where we want to support and develop start-ups. The increase in healthy life years could be one of Estonia's great goals for the next ten years. Now I'm talking about the green economy. Its aim is to increase prosperity by using raw materials in an efficient and more environmentally friendly way. Under the leadership of the Development Fund, analyses and development scenarios of the long-term development plan of Estonia's energy economy have been prepared over the last two years. In preparing the development plan, solutions have been proposed, the implementation of which will allow us to create up to EUR 1 billion of added value in the Estonian economy per year. The areas covered by the development plan were electricity, heat, housing, transport energy consumption and the production of local fuels. We will measure the development of these areas with an annual progress report. I have already given you an example of the inefficient use of the electricity grid. One of the possible solutions to this problem is the production of heat and electricity on the ground. This has been done in a number of countries, for example through the formation of energy cooperatives. At the end of 2013, we launched a programme of energy cooperatives in which we have analysed the socio-economic impacts of the creation of an energy cooperative and also examined the shortcomings of the regulatory environment. As a leading project, with the help of international experts, we helped ten communities across Estonia to start their energy cooperative. Nearly 2 000 people have now participated in training and information events on energy cooperatives. The first energy cooperatives in Estonia will hopefully see the light of day this year. Our analyses show that if the potential of energy cooperatives were to be realised, the cost of heat per capita would be reduced almost twice, especially in rural areas. Moreover, the creation of an energy cooperative would also benefit those who would not be part of it, as the network charges that we are currently operating on the entire electricity network would be reduced. Another example of this year's analysis of the possibilities of using biomethane as a transport fuel. The introduction of biomethane or any other renewable fuel cannot be an end in itself. The aim is to use renewable and environmentally friendly forms of energy in the most efficient and economically beneficial way possible. Our analysis looked for ways where the introduction of biomethane is effective and increases economic prosperity. The analysis shows that if we were to replace 10% of the total transport fuel imported with biomethane, we could generate an additional value of over EUR 41 million per year. At the beginning of this week, we also presented our report to the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu. While our proposal does not coincide with what was planned by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in all nuances, dialogue between understandings helps to improve plans and find the most suitable solution for the country. From this spring's preliminary study of the bioeconomy, we learned that in Estonia, the value added of renewable resources per employee is 2 to 3 times lower than the average in the European Union. In addition, nearly a third of Estonia's agricultural land is out of active value creation or underutilised. We are convinced that, like Finland, Estonia should also draw up its long-term strategy for the management of renewable natural resources. Next, I will talk about the competition for development ideas. Innovative ideas do not always have to materialise in business. For the second year, we have organised a competition for development ideas. We called on the people of Estonia to think boldly and big about how to improve the quality of life in Estonia and promote the economy. Last year, we gave up three scholarships. The scholarship has now given rise to the e-residency project, which has received a lot of media and international responses. Second scholarship Heateo SA, in cooperation with the public and private sector, is launching Estonia's first project on social impact bonds in the new year. This year we selected two new scholarships. Organic Estonia aims to make Estonia the first organic country in the world, thus giving more value to products of Estonian origin. The sammu reader wants to create a solution for social media by urging people to make a small contribution to changing certain social behaviours, whether they are alcohol consumption or low mobility. Summary. The task of the Development Fund is to lead change. In entrepreneurship it is necessary, among other things, to support new start-ups and create the best conditions for their development in Estonia. The Estonian start-up companies in the SmartCap portfolio have mobilised a total of 54 million euros of investments and created more than 200 jobs in Estonia. We have successfully exited three investments, bringing large companies listed on international stock exchanges to Estonia. The value of our investment portfolio has increased to 35 million euros, belonging to the shell of our kind in terms of return on the portfolio. I would like to emphasise once again the important role of start-ups in economic renewal. Even now start-ups have created over 2 000 new jobs and mobilised more than €170 million in investments. This year's Startup Estonia programme aims to make Estonia the best place to start a start-up. The recognition of environmentally friendly washing powder in Tartu by Europe's leading investors proves that we have the potential for innovative ideas beyond IT. The role of development monitoring is to look for ways to change and replace existing solutions with new and better ones. With regard to the green economy, we have made proposals that would bring us an additional EUR 100 million each year. Half of this comes from the implementation of biomethane and the other half from energy cooperatives. The activities of the Energy Economy Development Plan have a total value added of nearly EUR 1 billion per year. These are not only large round figures, but are behind them are concrete proposals that help make Estonia's economy's health stronger and worth more to the world. The health of our economies in the future will also depend on the health of our people. New services and solutions to this end could be a source of economic growth. Ladies and gentlemen, For my part, I would like the contacts between the Riigikogu and the Development Fund to be even closer in the future. The Development Fund is designed to make us think big and always look to the future. Only together will we succeed in fulfilling the vision of Estonia as a small and dynamic country, where solutions that improve both Estonia and the world will begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U29	Good waitress, thank you very much. You have questions too. Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U30	Thank you very much, good waitress, for a beautiful and thorough presentation. I very much liked the part of the green economy, and also that you mentioned the idea of Organic Estonia, which we had on the agenda this week in the Committee on Rural Affairs. In my opinion, this is the image that Estonia could start building and creating other branches around it. It is organic and pure Estonia. But my question concerns a completely different facet. How do you assess whether a young start-up, for example through the Development Fund and other existing funds, would be more easy or difficult to obtain money? Should there be opportunities to set up networks of new private investors in cooperation in order to increase the number of so-called "funds" from which to raise additional capital?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U31	Thank you. I was talking about changing our investment strategy. Our new investment strategy is aimed at this. When we're talking about business accelerators, these are the start-ups invested in private companies. Our interest is to invest in these networks within the framework of the new investment strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U32	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Pirko Konsa, thank you. My question concerns an issue that you have also touched on lightly. In fact, the Development Fund worked hard enough and diligently on reports on smart specialisation, addressing areas of growth. As we know, these reports initially received very strong criticism from specialists from both the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. So what happened to those reports? What are their benefits and were they used as a basis for the launch of a smart specialisation programme?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U34	Thank you for your question. There has never been a discussion in Estonia about how it would be right to specialise. This is the first attempt. The Development Fund has learned a great deal in this process about how to organise such a debate and ensure a common understanding. The essence of my round talk is that, yes, these reports have been confirmed and used. How to use them better, change this methodology and better understand where Estonia is worth specialising in, we will work on this further. These areas, which we have chosen, are, by their very nature, broad enough: information technology, health care and resource saving. I would like to remind you that we are talking about smart specialisation as a process in which we are trying to get science and entrepreneurship to work together. It is not a whole economic development policy, it is a policy that we are looking for, where our academy has a sufficient level of science and potential to implement this science in business.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U35	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I also thank you for your meaningful presentation. But I'd rather ask you about things that you didn't touch on in your report. I'm wondering if you're planning on dealing with them. I'm kind of a supporter of the old economic model. In my opinion, one sector of industry that helps the whole economy to develop is industrial production. Have you carried out analyses in this area and examined which industries could be developed in Estonia and which direction should be contributed? Or is that what you're up to?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U37	Thank you. In a smart specialisation analysis, we have come to the conclusion that industry as a whole is facing a very big change. In the world, it is called the fourth industrial revolution due to the development of robotics and information technology. Our understanding is that, despite the industry, the whole industry should go along with this revolution. It is very important that we help the information technology sector, the academy and industry to work closely together to make this change happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U38	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U39	Thank you, good manager. Thank you, Pirko, for a meaningful presentation and for the work done so far in the Development Fund. Thank you for asking us what this Estonia is, where we want to live in 15 years' time! Development in all the areas you mentioned in the presentation would be supported by a high-quality and human-friendly living environment. This would ensure the competitiveness of the Estonian people's health and welfare state. In Denmark, the Development Fund is somewhat similar and very successful to Realdania, which invests precisely in the development of a quality living environment. Do you think that the development of the living environment could be one of the areas where the country could support development through the Development Fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U40	Thank you. I very much agree that the living environment plays an important role in economic growth. That's for two reasons. First, educated and talented people want to live in a quality living environment. Secondly, a high-quality living environment also means that people's health is better because less time is spent sitting in traffic by car, and health is less damaged because they do not live in unhealthy buildings, etc. This is certainly a question for our Council whether or not we are going to cover this direction. The living environment is part of the development plan for the energy economy. It is up to our Council to act actively in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U41	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation. You mentioned a number of success stories with which Estonia is a clear example to others and which will hopefully radiate out into the world. My question is about an interesting initiative, in which you are also a partner, as far as I know. The production of cellular medicines is being prepared in Estonia, which is done by Cellin Technologies. Is and how much information you can give today about the state of the success story of this company and its possible future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U43	Cellin is one of the few examples where Estonian science seeks its way into the commercial world. We know that in biotechnology, it takes a very long time for science to enter the market worldwide. This road is definitely not straight. I think Cellin has been relatively successful in a phase where they have partners who are also producing a single drug with cellular propagation technology. As far as the future of the company is concerned, it is quite difficult to predict it here today. Personally, I am relatively optimistic about their future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U44	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U45	Thank you. Monitoring activities have been one of its activities since the creation of the Development Fund. I stayed to look at the latest analysis of the creation of energy cooperatives. This is a commendable area to address, especially when it brings added value from the point of view of reducing transmission costs. What happens now? There's an analysis. Are there perhaps any bottlenecks that hinder the creation of these cooperatives? Actually, it shouldn't be. People have been trained. What happens next? Can you launch any processes in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U46	Thank you. Energy cooperatives, like many new things, have a legal problem. In our legal space, the energy cooperative, as a joint form of energy production, is unregulated. Although it is possible to create an energy cooperative within the framework of existing laws, our desire to adapt the legal space is to make it even more convenient. If one of the housing associations, for example, in Mustamäe, wanted to start producing energy itself, it would essentially be subject to the same requirements as the energy market operator. How to simplify this legal framework is one side of the issue. The other side is that, as with any new thing, it is very important here for examples to be drawn from and practical experience to be gained. We've talked a lot about energy cooperatives on paper. I very much hope that among the ten with whom we have worked for a year, the first two energy cooperatives will be established this year and their positive experiences will spread along Estonia. It is worth thinking, too, that if the Energy Cooperative has proven to be a model, should the State encourage people to create energy cooperatives and invest in energy production. The return on investments in energy production is known to be very long-term. When we see that this model works, the state should think about encouraging people to make these decisions. Otherwise, they may make much worse decisions and be trapped in them for long decades.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U47	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U48	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Your presentation contained very sympathetic topics, including the same energy cooperative theme. In particular, I would like to highlight the idea of Organic Estonia. But you had a contest for development ideas, and Organic Estonia was highlighted on it. What about the results of the competition or the highlighted works? How do you support these people's future activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U49	Thank you. Essentially, the competition for development ideas means that at the beginning of January we start a campaign trying to gather as many ideas as possible. Those we choose will receive a scholarship by the year, EUR 2 000 (net) per month. This scholarship allows them to employ a person who fully devotes himself to analysing and making this idea fit for purpose. This is exactly what happened to e-residency and Goodeo SA, who dealt with social impact bonds. This is exactly what has happened to Organic Estonia and the Sammulugeja project.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U50	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It turned out from your report that more than 2,000 jobs were created with the help of the Development Fund. But can you tell me how many companies and organisations have been set up in 2014-2015, how many of them are in operation and how many of them are located in the countryside?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U52	As I mentioned, we made three investments last year. Most of the jobs we invest in are created in Tallinn and Tartu. The reason is that knowledge-intensive entrepreneurship wants to be with universities. But I suggest you look at the bigger picture. In these 2000 jobs, we no longer count Skype jobs, which employ more than 600 people living in Estonia, receive several times the average wage in Estonia, consume products and services here, eat in restaurants, eat food grown in Estonia. The impact of such companies on the economy is always much wider than only these few jobs, because most of these jobs are highly paid and those who work there want to use many products and services.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U53	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, you gave very good examples of the development fund's activities in the green economy. Thanks for that! But should the Development Fund perhaps pay more attention to regional issues, some well-developed flagship projects, such as the natural resources and development opportunities of the Obinitsa region? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U55	Thank you. I think, in a sense, we are already dealing with regional policy, but in our own way, constantly looking for new solutions that could replace existing systems. Let us take the same example of energy cooperatives. These two energy cooperatives, which I hope will soon start, are located on the outskirts of Estonia: one is in South Estonia, quite there near Obinitsa, and the other is on Ruhnu Island. Within the framework of this flagship project, we made a small windmill to Ruhnu Island. I believe that solutions such as energy cooperatives are the ones to win the most in the outermost regions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U56	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good performer, thank you for your presentation. The Development Fund, among other things, is very active in monitoring and monitoring, which is very interesting and voluminous. But I haven't really noticed you writing about these monitoring and monitoring. You have good specialists at work, analysts. It would also be quite exciting to read these summaries from the press. Why haven't you done this, or have I just missed it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U58	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U59	My colleague asked why the Head has still not been elected to the Development Fund. The reason is simple: nobody wants to be head of the Development Fund. Why? The reputation of the Development Fund has been severely damaged. They no longer believe in a development fund because there are problems, problems and problems. We must no doubt consider that the fall in reputation is such that if the Development Fund continues in this form, it will certainly not be able to become a competent leader, because serious leaders are not prepared to take the lead in such an organisation. Here comes my proposal. We should seriously think about what to do with the Development Fund, because this is not the way to continue. We know that a significant part of investment activity is going out of the development fund, in principle there will be a large part of monitoring, which may not be in the right place. We need to find the place where we use it. I would really like us to use the competence of the Development Fund and also the Riigikogu to use it. Where these monitorings are supposed to take place is the point of discussion. I hope that we will take this matter up in the Committee on Economic Affairs at the beginning of next week. But from you, I expect suggestions and ideas on how to proceed, because that is no longer the case. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U60	Thank you. Mr Urve Palo, representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of the Riigikogu, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U61	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Development Fund, I looked it up on the Internet, was created more or less nine years ago, in November 2006. This leads to the conclusion that this is actually a young company that has been, like any company, in change and development. In recent years, there may have been more to looking for this place under the sun. If you read on the website of the Development Fund, which is its purpose, we read from it that the Estonian Development Fund is a public-law institution subject to the Riigikogu, whose aim is to contribute to the development of the Estonian economy. Maris Lauri, the previous speaker, said quite well that although this institution is subject to the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu has not, throughout this period, given the Foundation a direct task, at least not in terms of monitoring. That is unfortunate. What, then, does the Development Fund have to do, other than invent the actions to be undertaken. In my view, the Development Fund is a child whose mother is in the Riigikogu, but she is not very interested in what the child is doing. Once a year, when a representative of the Development Fund comes here to talk about what they have done over the year and what they want to do in the future, there is clearly little. This previous meeting in the Committee on Economic Affairs is also too brief. In fact, the Development Fund also has a father who has also not been very interested in him for nine years. Once again, my speech does not apply so much to the last year or two, but to the whole nine-year period, I shall generalise. This father is then the Ministry of Economic Affairs, because he has the wallet in the hands of his father, which is traditionally the case in the Estonian family, and this wallet holder has simply given money, but not very interested in what is being done with it or what is not done with it. Is it the child's fault that he has done what he sees fit to do? The Development Fund has done many good things over these years, many important initiatives. But he's done some naughty things, he's done some things that maybe he didn't have to. But if Mom and Dad don't supervise, don't watch, then you can't blame the baby. I think Mom and Dad should get their shit together now. I have been thinking a lot recently about the Development Fund, and I have also come up with the idea at some point whether we need the Development Fund, this child at all. I mean, he's more in trouble than he's happy about. Äripäev also writes in his editorials that he doesn't have to. It would be very popular to decide right now that we're shutting down. But I've come so far in my discussions that I'm afraid we're gonna throw the baby out with the washing water, and then we're gonna regret it. Let's try it like it's right and good: get ourselves together and work together first. Collaboration I mean in a way that would be more interested, essentially. If the Development Fund sets up the next year's activities, the budget will be furnished by... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U62	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U63	... it should take place in the summer, before the next year, in cooperation with the mother, or representative of the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu, and the minister responsible for this area in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. You could look at the activities together, all three have their own thoughts. And then, when the plan is more or less in place, the Development Fund could come to the Economic Commission and table its plans for next year. Both the opposition of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the coalition, all the MPs, could have a say. This should still be the moment when changes can be made. Let's try it this way. I spoke before the changes. Let's look at the development fund website that he says about himself. He says that his aim is to support positive changes in the Estonian economy through investment activities, monitoring of development and growth programmes. I told you the Development Fund was changing. Investment work is largely done, as the previous speakers said. Indeed, KredEx is one of the institutions where this work could continue. The start-up of the venture capital market is done, it works. This is a good achievement for the Development Fund. But more has come to the table with all kinds of developmental monitoring and growth programmes. I think that the development plan for the energy economy, which was led by the Development Fund, is a good example. The development plan for the bioeconomy awaits. I, too, thought for a while that perhaps it would be wise to take these development plans under the ministries, because it would go faster and be more effective there. But the ministry doesn't talk about a policy-wide development plan. The Ministry is a political institution and is led by a political minister. I personally would like to see more policy-wide development plans for the whole Estonian state. In my view, the Development Fund has been able to prove that it is political. Now there are these thoughts and the monitoring of development. Why would I want development fund analysts to write what they have analyzed and proposed? There are quite nice things here: there was recent global monitoring of entrepreneurship, Estonia's competitiveness analysis in the summer, etc. I would like specialists across politics to write about what they have analyzed so that all of this does not simply remain in the drawer, but the people and society of Estonia will know about it. Finally, I very, very much agree with your idea for next year that we should focus on the increase in the number of healthy years, and this could be Estonia's big target for the next ten years. It could also be one of the big things that the Development Fund will be working on, because it is even more important than the health of the Estonian people, the population, economic growth and the well-being of the people. So, power to you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U64	Mr President! Dear Pirko Konsa! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! For years, Estonia has acknowledged that we need new, fresh ideas to move forward, we need smart decisions and courage. We have been looking for these new ideas, and we have also asked whether it should be a narrative, whether it should be an idea, whether it should be a business idea. We are almost all in agreement that this should not only move Estonia forward, but should also make Estonia spiritually new, unite and give strength. In the light of these expectations, the Riigikogu founded the Development Fund. Such high social expectations have always been and always were. However, life was made by its corrections and the Development Fund got into the winds, though personal, perhaps for social or objective reasons. This was the case that two directions began to develop at different speeds in the development fund. This has perhaps been one of the reasons why several auditoriums and several volumes ask whether the activities of the Development Fund should be re-evaluated at all, whether any structural changes should be made to its activities, etc. I am not going to judge here at all, but I will only recognise this half of the development fund, which has really dealt with venture capital, SmartCap, investment, start-ups, given them a lot of strength and brought them to a new level. On the other hand, this is the side of the monitoring of development, which was also raised by my colleague Urve Palo and, in preparation for what, particularly in the case of areas of smart specialisation growth, the development fund apparently fell under criticism at times without justification, because these tasks, which were actually proposed by the development fund, were essentially the expectations of society, but were put in place for the development fund to be met in a situation where the objective was not even clearly defined. Obviously, we have all heard that the Estonian Academy of Sciences has raised the question whether the monitoring department of the Development Fund could not go to them. There has also been talk about the interest of the State Chancellery and its need to improve its analytical capacity. These are all issues that need to be looked at honestly, they need to be examined, because it is clear that there are capacities and several conceptual bases in the development fund, but they are still right and not implemented in the right way. Perhaps one of the issues that the Development Fund should discuss very seriously itself at several levels is whether the Development Fund, with its expertise, is not exactly the place where opportunities for society's own progress will be developed. We need to raise social capital. We certainly need to think about how to bring back people with experience to the labour market, but who may have a bit of age and who are forced to withdraw from several places today. It is certainly an important question of stopping peripheralization. Perhaps the Development Fund is precisely the power that can help small businesses, sometimes by simply encouraging them. By asking these questions... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U65	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. I would like to thank Mr Konsa and the Estonian Development Fund once again for their presentation and answers. I would like to thank all the officials who have joined us. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U66	... we must of course include here, as Pirko Konsa has already said, EAS, Innove and the Estonian Research Council. The Estonian Development Fund has potential. It is a matter of whether and how well we can make use of all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U67	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U68	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank Mr Konsa, Chairman of the Board of the Development Fund, for his meaningful presentation. The first thing I would like to ask you is how it has happened in the second year of the Riigikogu's presentation by the Acting Chairman of the Board. Has it really not been possible to choose the head of the institution during the year, or is there a reason that the coalition considers that an organisation such as the Development Fund is not needed by Estonia? The Development Fund is a proud-named institution. The name's so proud it scares me. There are hardly any people in this hall who do not want Estonia and Estonia to do well and the Estonian economy to develop. It is the Development Fund that should contribute to this development. But how? Today we heard a presentation on the activities of the Development Fund. I ask whether this activity is a locomotive for the Estonian economy. Everyone can answer for themselves. I would like to remind you of why the Development Fund was created. The Development Fund was created to initiate and support changes in the Estonian economy and society that would accelerate the adjustment of the economic structure, lead to export growth and help create new highly skilled jobs. This includes monitoring global trends and advising politicians on economic development. But it seems that some politicians think that they already know how the Estonian economy has to develop; the advice of economists is not needed. The coalition and the political parties in power have made the development fund a legal body that is allowed to tick quietly, but only so that it does not interfere with the coalition. It is such a proud organization that no one wants to be the killer of the Development Fund. But in reality, the patient has been in an artificial coma for years. Doesn't our economy really need a scientific analysis? Will our economy really develop at an adequate pace, at a rate that allows us to reach the five richest countries in 15 years? I'll answer you. We are in a situation where Eesti Pank buys bonds from other countries, because we are unable to develop even 1.2 billion economic projects that Eesti Pank could finance. We spent years looking for our Nokia. I'm not looking anymore. But it's not about us, it's more about Nokia. Instead of discussing what direction our economy should go in and what should be done in this regard, the costaires will discuss how an organisation that should say what direction the world economy is going in in ten years' time will be able to pull the cord out. Not long ago, due to certain events, the form of governance of state-owned enterprises came to the agenda again. Different solutions were proposed, from the sale of companies to the merger. The idea of combining management is not really new. Already at the stage of the creation of the Development Fund, one of the plans was the creation of a common development centre which would be responsible for the development of state-owned enterprises and not only would develop existing ones, but would also propose which new companies the state should create. It is thanks to development funds with such functions that countries such as Japan, Finland, Taiwan and Singapore developed. The success stories of these countries and the ways in which they are making progress could set a good example for us. I want to finish my speech with a wise thought. A little extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U69	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U70	Thank you. You have to fertilize the cabbage that grows. Our proposal is to make an organisation from the Development Fund that will tell us what cabbage will grow in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U71	Yes, please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U72	It's what we do here and it's what they say. When the company that developed reusable washing powder came to the top of three in Europe, it was written. But I agree with you in this respect and accept the criticism that we should speak much more and with a much louder voice than these ideas. We may have been a little restrained by the fact that the analyses and suggestions I brought out to you here today have all been completed in the summer of this year or at the beginning of autumn. In fact, now is the time to start talking loudly about them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U73	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U74	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! In August 2014, the Board of the Development Fund decided to privatise SmartCap, which deals with investments. Now it's the end of 2015. How far is this privatisation process?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U75	Thank you. Maybe the word 'privatisation' here is a little wrong. This will take us back to the years when there was an active privatisation in Estonia. Maybe it puts the wrong seal on it. We are talking about the fact that we want to hand over the management of the funds put at the disposal of the State's development fund to the managers of the private fund. This means that we are not privatising state assets, but we are going to buy in management services. With this competition we are so far away from being with the European Investment Bank, which has advised us very often in Europe, such things have not happened, but this has been done in the past, however, how to implement this process openly and reliably. I very much hope that the invitation to private fund managers to take over our funds will be presented during this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U76	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U77	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! Last year, the Development Fund, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, or rather, the Ministry of Justice worked out in cooperation with the Development Fund, and the Riigikogu adopted a number of amendments to the Commercial Code. First of all, it is when start-ups start up that our legal space becomes more competitive, and it is easier and faster to include capital in start-ups' development. Has this activity been of any use yet? How many more changes in legal space do you consider necessary to make our start-ups competitive?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U78	Thank you. We have noticed that the Estonian investment community and start-ups have adopted these changes very positively. I cannot tell you how much one or the other legislative amendment has immediately brought about additional investments as measurable amounts, but I am absolutely sure that this will have an impact. Maybe it's too early to look for that effect. But, as I pointed out in my speech, I think it was a very positive process when, very quickly, in cooperation with the ministries and the Riigikogu, we managed to resolve these matters. I hope that by organising just as quickly and just as rational a dialogue, we will also be able to resolve this issue, so that it would be convenient for the outsiders to come to Estonia with their family and live here as much as possible. There are very, very many obstacles here, starting with how to apply for a visa, how long a visa is issued and under which conditions a residence permit is issued at all. When we talk about start-ups, the problem is that these companies do not have a large balance sheet volume or a large turnover to show. They often have an investment and very large losses. If we look at the conditions of the legal space, it can be said that they do not very much favour the granting of visas to these people. I cannot reproach the Estonian law enforcement authorities here, I mean the Police and Border Guard Board, which is conducting these procedures, but we need to think about this problem at the level of legislation and find sensible solutions. In developed countries, which we set an example for ourselves, such as Canada or the United States, there is a kind of visa such as the start-up visa. The issue of such a visa is also being discussed at European Union level, because the talents that contribute to innovative businesses are very global, very mobile, and if they find it difficult to go anywhere because of bureaucracy, they simply do not go there and pay attention elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U79	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U80	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! You said that there are several success stories in Estonia. But my concern is that in many cases these success stories create more jobs abroad than in Estonia. Where is the solution to this problem? After all, these jobs should be created in Estonia. Why do they come from abroad?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U81	Thank you. In my report, I also mentioned statistics that the number of jobs in Estonia, compared with the number of jobs abroad, is in Estonia's favour. Companies in our investment portfolio have 200 jobs in Estonia and 100 jobs abroad. This ratio remains similar in start-ups in general. The total number of start-ups in Estonia is 400 and the jobs we are talking about are closer to 2000.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U82	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I am also going to go to the regional area with my question and to the issue of competence centres. You didn't say much about it in your report. At the same time, we have invested quite a lot of money in competence centres to encourage entrepreneurship and change the economic environment in the regions through this triple helix model. How do you comment on that? Have we been successful in this area, or are we still driving relatively much idle?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U84	I'm coming back to a clever specialization. We talked about this process being bumpy. At first, we didn't follow the competence centers program as part of our smart specialisation. But I am pleased to see that many of the centres of competence that are currently being funded are in line with the directions we are proposing. In my opinion, the eternal challenge facing the country is that ministries often stick to their priorities and do not look at the big picture. During the smart specialisation, we saw several times the interests of the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications colliding. If we bring the Ministry of the Environment, who has very large resources to invest, and the Ministry of the Interior, who invests in regional development, this problem will even be amplified. This is one reason why I think that the debate on Estonia's great goals should be held much more in this Riigikogu. It will be much easier to agree on large targets and later on the ministry's activities "to get in touch with them" than to try to deduce from the different goals of the ministries in any way a single major common goal. We are a little embarrassed in Estonia because the ministries are looking very narrowly, on the basis of their own field, where to put the funds. Unfortunately, this risk also exists in centres of competence. Fortunately, many competence centres, such as the Smart House Competence Centre in Rakvere, combine with the great tasks that we present in the smart specialisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U85	Our budget has been reduced, yes, by EUR 200000. What does that really mean? We need to look very seriously at which areas we are monitoring. The other part is that I do not think that monitoring financing must be based solely on the state budget. We will have discussions at Council level on how to proceed with monitoring, how much to do and where to set the focus, both in the Council of the Development Fund next week and certainly in the future. Because of the shrinking budget, we cannot do everything we have done so far in such a way.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U86	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, In your presentation, you rightly highlighted global trends and their clear impact on Estonia's life. In parallel to these trends, the world's yacht goes to the brains and it's been brought to an ever younger level or, let's say, school level. How do you assess Estonia's ability to contribute to the development of innovative and creative talents, so-called brain potential in the field of education? Maybe there's some way to make that assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U88	Mr Konsa, thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. Thank you very much and the entire development fund team. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Krista Aru, representative of the Estonian Free Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U89	Let me give you an example here, which I mentioned once in my speech. I think that education as a whole is one very important area that determines how competitive our economy can be in the future. Competition and hunting for brains exist, but I think Estonia has a pretty good position as a relatively liberal and well-functioning society. But what can be done in education? I think it is extremely important that we bring more and more practitioners into education as soon as possible, as well as close to life. The example I want to give is this. A few weeks ago, a business week took place in Estonia, and the Development Fund, in cooperation with the Employers' Confederation and the EAS, carried out such an action that we took 70 entrepreneurs to schools to talk to young people about what it means to be an entrepreneur. Not so much talking about what the economy is, but about what it means to be an entrepreneur. It was said what choices young people should make in their lives and what it means to be an employer and what it means to be an employee. I think that such a practical approach is needed both in promoting engineering education and, in fact, in teaching social areas in schools. More practical education! We also work with universities to improve entrepreneurship education in universities. We see that teaching is very good in academic terms, the question is that if a student is faced with a choice of whether to become an entrepreneur, does he have enough practical background and knowledge to make the decisions that an entrepreneur has to make?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U90	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U91	Thank you. I ask for Mikhail Korbi, representative of the Central Party Group of the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U92	Let's say hi to him! He's sitting there.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U93	Thank you. I ask Maris Lauri, the representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have had many times in five months to answer the question of how it is with the Development Fund. Almost every time I've taken a long break before answering, I've felt that the problem is complicated. It's an organization that's done a lot of important things. A lot of important things have been done in the area of investment. There are really good results. The issues of initial start-up capital have been resolved; we no longer have the problems that were in 2006, 2007 or 2008. We have capital that is willing to invest. Estonia is known as the land of start-ups, they want to come here, Estonia has a positive reputation. It is positive that it will also be seen how this process will proceed and that the state will "come out" of the part of the investment where private capital is already capable of delivering itself. The second problem actually starts with the fact that when the Development Fund was created, it was thought that investments and monitoring were much more closely linked than they are now. At the moment, we can often say that we have investments and monitoring and there is a big difference between them. This is bad. But when we come to surveillance, we can talk about having two phases. In the first phase, big ideas were discussed, looking for a long view. The current, more practical part of the monitoring exercise is that it deals with business science, energy, green economy and smart specialisation. If I look at what is being done, perhaps the question is whether all of these should be clearly the areas of action of the Development Fund. It seems to me that some areas should be under the Ministry. Developing development plans is a political task for ministries. They may involve several sources, but this should not be the main task of the Development Fund; it could be the most helpful side. If you look at monitoring, it has very different aspects. There is a longer view, there are more detailed questions, and it is always important that monitoring is in the right place, it is used where it is in the right place. If we want a big view, then monitoring must be at a higher level, if we want a closer view, then monitoring must be closer to this environment. So the problem of getting up depends a lot. It should be noted that the Riigikogu has not made any monitoring orders or submitted a targeted question during the entire period of operation of the Development Fund. Perhaps it is one of the sources of the problems associated with the Development Fund. The third area of problems relates to the management of the Development Fund. As I said, investments have been successful, but when we think about what they are meant for, investments, public venture capital investments are one of the tools that the state can use to stimulate entrepreneurship. The second instrument is grants, grants and different forms of credit, but they are under the authority of the executive. In order for this to work better, it would be logical for investments to be linked to the executive. This is simply necessary to ensure that investments are efficient and profitable, that they are flexible and responsive to circumstances. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U95	Good chairman of the sitting! Dear waitress, Have you also considered handing over your investment portfolio, above all SmartCap, to KredEx? In fact, we met with the management and employees of KredEx in the Committee on Economic Affairs this week, and I was very sympathetic about that. I was surprised that there are a lot of overlaps in these activities, I mean investments, at least in my opinion. In my opinion, it could be entirely a point of thought that the entire investment portfolio, above all SmartCap, could be dealt with more broadly in the future instead of KredEx. We in a small country do not always have enough competence for a very large number of institutions. Perhaps it would be better to concentrate on it, so you could focus more on looking for and monitoring the big target.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U96	Thank you. I bring out a few nuances that I think are very important. First of all, it is a very welcome idea that we review the division of tasks between organisations such as KredEx, EAS, Eesti Arengufond, Estonian Research Council, Innove and Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund. There are actually a lot of overlaps when we talk about training people or helping companies invest. The second nuance, which I would like to make sure, is that KredEx is currently engaged in investment activities in such a way that they include all the substantive competence from the European Investment Fund. In the Development Fund, we have investment experience of our own. If we now come back to the question of whether it is worth putting together KredEx and the Development Fund, I think it is extremely important that we find a solution where there is an organisation that understands and understands the financing and problems of innovative companies that think differently, and there are organisations that understand the traditional economy, where the risks are much lower. In my opinion, these are two very different areas of investment. I think that KredEx has been very strong in terms of its substantive competence in helping the banking sector support our business. But I still believe that SmartCapis and the Development Fund have the strongest competence in the area of how to invest in technology-intensive companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U97	Einar Vallbaum, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I listened to your speech for a long time, and I thought that there was no talk at all about the smart houses that the Estonian state has promoted so much, but in the end it did come off. It has to be said about the Smart House of Rakvere that this house is ready now, but it is actually empty because there are no such thoughts. A lot of money has been placed in other places, and these smart houses have been widely spoken of. Will the Development Fund help with the advice when this house is finished?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U99	Smart houses and construction as a whole are one direction that I did not touch very much in my speech, but in this direction we are making quite a number of preparations. These smart houses are exactly the same as many other new models: they have to be tried and accepted that not everything will work just as we originally planned. Corrections must be made to these experiences. We are certainly ready to help everyone and support them with advice and strength.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U100	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U101	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Your 2016 budget has been reduced. What does this mean for the Development Fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U102	Let's move on to item five. The first reading of the draft law amending the State Legal Aid Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu Dmitri Dmitriyev, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft is very short and consists of only two paragraphs. But I'm going to talk a little bit more and more about the principles and objectives of the bill. According to the principle of a democratic state, access to justice for the protection of their rights is a process that cannot depend on a person's financial situation. Consequently, a national measure has been introduced through which low-income individuals have the possibility to apply for free legal aid from the State. In order to apply for aid, an application must be submitted which must describe the problems encountered in relation to which the application for legal aid is made, the reasons for which state aid is necessary for the protection of the rights of the applicant, and the potential benefits of the case must be clarified and other important aspects must also be mentioned. If the person lives permanently in Estonia, he or she must submit the application in Estonian on the basis of the current law. In practice, this means that Russian-speaking people who live here permanently as their mother tongue, who in most cases are elderly and in addition belong to a group of low-income residents, must translate the application for legal aid in advance into Estonian and only then can they submit it to the court. People who are already underprivileged must therefore seek the means to translate the application into Estonian. Although the state has created support systems for people who do not speak Estonian, it is possible for uninsured people to turn to non-profit organisations and foundations that provide the first legal advice, but if the availability of state legal aid in Tallinn, Tartu and Pärnu is quite good, then there is a constant shortage of providers of this service in Ida-Virumaa and South-East Estonia. Under the current State Legal Aid Act, the possibility of filing an application for legal aid in any language other than Estonian and English is excluded, which means that the court may automatically reject the application solely on grounds of non-compliance with the language requirement. To improve the situation, the Estonian Centre Party Group launched in April a draft law amending the State Legal Aid Act, which is now before you. As I said, the draft consists of two paragraphs, the first of which amends the State Legal Aid Act and the second of which provides for the date of entry into force of the amendment, which is 1 January 2016. The purpose of the draft is to rule out a situation where a person does not have the opportunity to apply to the state for legal aid because he or she does not speak enough Estonian. The court would then not be able to return the application for legal aid automatically in the future due to non-compliance with the language requirement. As regards the details of the draft, subsection 1 (1) amends the language requirement of the application for state legal aid and gives the opportunity to submit the application in Russian in addition to the Estonian language. Paragraph 1 (2) of the draft law amends the language requirement for documents to be annexed to the application for legal aid and adds the possibility of submitting documents in Russian, in addition to the Estonian language. According to the current law, documents can only be submitted in Estonian and, in exceptional cases, in English. In our opinion, this is a lack of regulation, as it does not take into account the specific nature of the native language of the local population. I recall that according to the latest population and housing census, about 30% of the people in the country speak Russian as their native language. At the same time, the draft does not change the principle that the official language is Estonian and the hearings will also take place in Estonian. I also bring out the opinion delivered by the Estonian Bar Association in September, where it was stated that the issue raised is very important. The Bar Association supports the possibility to apply for state legal aid in Russian, as a large part of the Russian-speaking population of Estonia has a regrettably inadequate knowledge of the Estonian language or does not know it at all. They consider that the provision of statutory data, even in the mother tongue, may prove difficult, not to mention the situation in which such data must be provided in a foreign language, even though it is a national language. It cannot be assumed that the requirement of a national language is in itself more important than the actual provision of access to justice for individuals. § 15 of the Constitution guarantees everyone the right to judicial protection. The Estonian Human Rights Centre also considers the draft initiated to be positive, finding that it is difficult for Russian-speaking people to fill the application for state legal aid in Estonian, and they have drawn the Ministry of Justice's attention to this deficiency. We find that the bill improves the protection of the fundamental rights of people living in Estonia. I therefore ask for support for the draft and its substantive proceedings, although the next rapporteur, who will speak on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, proposes on behalf of the Commission to reject the draft. So I've been talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U104	Thank you. You have questions. Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U105	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Recently, more specifically yesterday, a report was published by the European Human Rights Organisation, which makes complaints to Estonia about the language law. It proposes that a wider use of the second language be made of those regions where a large number of native speakers live in compact numbers. Changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, based on the proposal of the relevant structures of the European Union on language, will soon be under discussion in this large hall. In this light, how do you think it would be wise to consider people's right to apply in their own language?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U106	Thank you for your question. This report, which you have been talking about and which has recently appeared, is a bit wider in scope than the draft law amending the law on legal aid, which I am defending here. But surely this is one small step to give Russian-speaking people the opportunity to apply for legal aid in Russian and to improve their legal protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U107	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U108	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! As you remember, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, your proposal or draft has been scrolled for quite a while because, among other things, the first time you came there with this bill, you did not know how much it would cost or whether there had been any problems with submitting applications. Finally, we came to the conclusion that there were no real problems. While legal aid applications have been rejected, I think 34 have passed or still do not remember which period, but none of them have been rejected for non-compliance with the language requirement. None of them have been rejected because it was presented in Russian. So there is no problem in practice. The old rule says if some system works, there's no point in pricking it and changing it. As a member of the Riigikogu, do you not think that there is no point in changing functioning models with new drafts?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U109	Thank you for your question. I'll start from the beginning, from the amount we're talking about possible extra costs. Annually, according to the Ministry of Justice, this would be around EUR 50000, plus a one-off cost of job creation. In total, there would be four of these jobs. It is not, in itself, a large sum. However, if we are talking about this system, which you think is functional, where there is no problem, I do not think so. Rather, there is a certain degree of hole in the system. Statistics show weaknesses in the system, no records are available, several applications were submitted in Russian, several in Estonian or English. The courts have gone further in this regard. They are trying not to automatically reject applications, and I am very grateful to them for that. But when we look at the current law on state legal aid, it actually allows it. So at one point we might come back to the same question, because there is this option that someone has been deprived of legal aid only because the version of the current law allows the application to be automatically rejected if it is not submitted in Estonian or English.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U110	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U111	Thank you, Honourable Vice Speaker. Good waitress! I read the explanatory statement and cannot in any way agree with the argument that 30% of the population is currently in principle discriminated against. I would like to remind you that for all of us, regardless of our mother tongue, origin and social status, the same laws and the same constitution that we must follow apply, we live in a country with the same regime. There's no point in seeing discrimination here. The second thing is that, true, 30% of the Estonian population's native language is Russian. But when I look around this hall, I will also have real respect for you, Mr Dmitriev, who speak Estonian on a perfect level. Certainly, this 30% of the population is not all people who do not speak the official language at an elementary level in order to obtain legal assistance. Therefore, do you have more accurate figures than many of these 30% do not speak Estonian at all and why do they not speak Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U112	Thank you for your question. I'm probably gonna owe you more than that today. I do not question the Constitution, which states that the official language of Estonia is Estonian. That's what I said in the Committee on Legal Affairs. It is rather a question of guaranteeing the fundamental rights of people; everyone must have the right to be protected both by the state and by the court. There is still a situation where both the Estonian Bar Association and other institutions, such as the Estonian Human Rights Centre, confirm that there are problems. As our colleague, Valdo Randpere, claim that there is no problem, I do not dare.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U113	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Is the problem only in rejected statements or is it wider? Perhaps there are people who do not apply because they know that the law is not allowed to do so in Russian, but they do not have the opportunity or they do not know how to do it in Estonian. That's just how they don't go to court. Is there a problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U115	Thank you. That's a good question. Looking at the data we have received from the courts when we made inquiries and the opinion of the Estonian Bar Association, I must say that the Bar Association has gone even further because they admitted that there was a problem. They actually supported the presentation of the draft. They have already translated the application form and also the notification of economic status into Russian on their own initiative and at their own expense on the legal aid website. When we look at the opinion of the courts, the most interesting thing was that the Viru County Court has probably the most Russian-speaking residents in the region, and this year the least state legal aid applications have been submitted. This may also indicate that people simply are not sufficiently aware or do not have the courage or the ability to go to court.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U116	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U117	Thank you. Once again, one question and clarification, a little bit motivated by the fact that I think you speculate too much on the possible dangers and you cling to it. During the Commission's first debate, you spoke of a huge problem and a large number of people whose applications for legal aid have been rejected. After several weeks, I would even say that a couple of months of digging could not identify any example where a request for legal aid would have been rejected as a result of non-compliance with the language requirement. Now just answer me yes or no. Is it true, or is it not, that no application for legal aid has been rejected as a result of a breach of the language requirement?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U118	Thank you, Chairman. Good waitress! The lawyer's assistance in drafting an application for legal aid is free of charge, as confirmed by the attorney's representative. As we know, many lawyers in Estonia also speak Russian. Does this not help Russian-speaking people to apply for legal aid in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U119	Thank you for your question. I'm sure it helps a little. The person has the opportunity to choose the right lawyer, as the language of the court proceedings is still Estonian. If a lawyer speaks Russian, he can communicate better with his client. At the same time, as I said earlier, the assistance of lawyers is limited in certain areas, as their number is relatively small compared to the number of residents living in the region. To some extent, it helps, but the problem has not been solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U120	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U121	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! Over 40 nations live in Estonia. If we adopt this law, how will we tell the rest of the nations that they are not discriminated against and that the Russians who are allowed to use their language when submitting an application are not affected?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U122	Thank you. Good question. There are certainly more than 40 nations living in the territory of our country. As far as Russian is concerned, it is a language of a larger minority, which is also used by many people of other nationalities living in the territory of the Estonian state. That's how we solve most of the problem that exists. But to answer your question, I can speculate on a recent favorite subject, the issue of refugees. I also have a question of what we will do next when refugees come to live here who may not even speak English, not to mention Estonian and Russian.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U123	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! The guys go apple-cracking and they're very understanding, they don't call the police, there's no problem. No application for legal aid has been rejected as a result of a breach of the language requirement. Do we then approve of this continued violation of the language requirement and are merciful? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U125	Thank you. I have already told you that although the Act currently provides that applications must be in Estonian or English, the courts have gone a little further. They try to be humane and, if possible, try to process Russian-language applications, which are not provided for by law. That is what I have been talking about, that we have to close this systemic hole and go a little further, not to talk about here every time, that we do not see the problem and that we are not going to deal with it, because some statistical indicators are those that do not really matter whether there is a problem or not. Practice shows that people have approached the Chancellor of Justice with this problem, which means that there is still a problem that remains unresolved. If, on the basis of the Commission's proposal, coalition partners reject the draft, that does not mean that we will not come back to this Chamber after a while.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U126	There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. Thank you. The rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs is Mr Heljo Pikhof, chairman of the committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U127	Good President of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! I will give a brief overview of the debate in the Commission. I can say that the Committee on Legal Affairs prepared the first reading of the draft in three sessions. At the meeting on 14 September, Dmitri Dmitriev, representative of the Centre Party Group, presented to the Commission the content and purpose of the draft initiated by the Group. The draft provides for a change in the language requirement of the application for legal aid in order to give the opportunity to submit the application in Russian in addition to the Estonian language. According to the draft law, in the future, the court would not be able to return the application for legal aid automatically if the language requirement was not met. Gunnar Vaikmaa, Head of the Department of Supervision and Legal Service of the Ministry of Justice, stated that the Government of the Republic does not support the draft law amending the State Legal Aid Act for two main reasons. Firstly, because the official language of the Republic of Estonia and, consequently, the language of the court proceedings are Estonian. Secondly, because in practice there is no problem of access to public legal assistance due to insufficient language skills. The fundamental right of everyone to apply to the courts provided for in § 15 of the Constitution, regardless of their language skills, is already equally and uniformly guaranteed to everyone in the current legal area and in practice no application for state legal aid has been rejected as a result of non-compliance with the language requirement. The officials of the Ministry of Justice invited the Commission to the meeting and the representative of the initiator of the draft replied to the questions put by the members of the Commission. The Commission asked for further clarifications, as the rapporteur has already said. For example, the draft was asked about the costs of implementing it, as well as the facts about cases where the persons were not legalised because they did not have the opportunity to submit an application in Russian. By 21 September, the Commission asked the initiator and the Ministry of the draft to provide further information on the number of persons who had not been granted legal aid and the reasons for not being assisted. The Commission also wanted to examine the letter from the Chancellor of Justice mentioned by the initiators, which prompted the Centre Party Group to submit a draft. At its meeting on 22 September, the initiator's representative asked for additional time to provide further information on which the Commission had expressed its interest during the first discussion of the draft. At its meeting on 12 October, my colleague, Dmitri Dmitriev, gave an overview of the statistics on state legal aid applications, which revealed that there is currently no record of the language in which the application for legal aid was filed. However, the data confirm that if the application is made in Russian, it will not be rejected, but will be processed in the normal manner. The Chancellor of Justice did not have the opinion of the initiator of the draft. The representative of the Ministry of Justice also confirmed that applications for legal aid have not been rejected because of the language in which they were submitted and that applications in Russian have been accepted. Where an application has been rejected, this has been the case, in particular, for other reasons. As a result of the discussion, the Commission took the view that since applications in Russian are processed and thus the fundamental right of everyone to apply to the courts is guaranteed, the current law should not be amended. I will also read the decisions. It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 22 October 2015 (the decision was adopted by consensus) and to propose that the draft be rejected at first reading (five Commission members, 2 votes against and 1 abstention). Mr Pikhof (consensually) was appointed rapporteur. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U128	Questions to the representative of the Commission. Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U129	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Commission waitress. Is it true that representatives of the Bar Association and the Association of Lawyers visited the Commission, whose understanding was basically the same, that even an Estonian person needs the help of a lawyer in order to fill out the legal aid application? Perhaps this complexity is at such a level that even an Estonian person cannot fill out this application because such complex questions have been asked. You also referred to the fact that there had been no rejection because the application had been filed in Russian, but both the Ministry of Justice and the courts replied that they simply did not have the statistics, because the courts believed it had to be collected by the Ministry of Justice, while the Ministry of Justice believes that the information is available in the courts. Is that true?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U130	Thank you. Dear waitress, As a lawyer, you can certainly appreciate what was also discussed at our meeting by a representative of the ministry, namely how legal aid is organised in the regions. There is even a budget line on which a large amount of money is allocated to allow a person to ask a question on a website, and for a few hours a lawyer takes a certain x place, a small town or a small county. Do you think it is sufficient funding and would it not make sense to give all this money to the courts so that they can, in their understanding, use this money to provide legal assistance to people?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U131	First of all, answer the last question. The position of the Government of the Republic describes the practice of submitting applications in Russian rather than in Estonian. I read: 'Administrative courts have a common practice that requests for legal aid from a state in Russian are directed to a judicial interpreter for translation. After translation, the judge can essentially resolve the matter. There is no common position on foreign language applications in land courts. If an application for legal aid from a Russian-speaking state is made by a detained or arrested person, these applications have been dealt with as they have been submitted, i.e. in Russian. This is possible because most judges speak Russian. If necessary (mostly illegible handwriting) an interpreter is also asked for help. For example, Harju County Court has pointed out that if the translation of the procedural document into Estonian has not been submitted in spite of the deficiency order, the judges will also process the application for legal aid in Russian. In deciding whether or not a Russian-language application is being processed, the judge can determine whether the application is understood by the judge. In addition to the above, e.g. a self-employed suspect whose criminal case requires the participation of a lawyer in accordance with § 45 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and who has not chosen a lawyer does not need to submit an application for legal aid in the case (§ 11 (1) RÕS). It is common practice in county courts that, where necessary, private office officials assist public legal assistance applicants by telephone. ' But as for the first part of your question, I have read the form of this application myself, and I can quite seriously say as a lawyer that I understand that it is very difficult to fill it out even in Estonian. Really, legal help is often needed here, be an Estonian or some other nation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U132	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U133	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Mr Randpere mentioned 34 requests, none of which have been rejected for language reasons. But maybe it's that the Russian-speaking community doesn't dare make such an application, they'd rather not do it for fear? Has there been any research into what this picture is really like?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U134	If no one has submitted an application, it is difficult to investigate. It is very difficult to start questioning, although it is possible to conduct a cross-country survey, which has failed to submit an application on the grounds that it has not been able to submit an application in its own language. But the same question may arise with people who speak the official language. If the application forms are very complex, the person may refrain from submitting the application. If he doesn't understand, he gets the feeling he's not smart enough to need a lawyer in that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U135	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, If I have understood matters correctly, the application for legal aid may be submitted in two languages: Estonian and English. Why has English found such a special mention, and why was English chosen as the second language in which legal aid may be sought? From the point of view of protecting the Estonian language, would it not be wise to remove English from this list, so that legal aid can only be applied for in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U137	The law states that the application for state legal aid can also be submitted in English in certain cases because the possibilities for the citizens of the European Union living abroad to obtain an Estonian translation are considerably more limited than those of Russian-speaking people living in Estonia. The recital of the Government of the Republic sets out the Council of the European Union Directive, according to which applications for legal aid and supporting documents are translated into the official language or one of the languages of the Member State of the competent authority which corresponds to one of the languages of the institutions of the Community. It has been noted that English is the most spoken foreign language in the European Union, which is mastered by the majority of Estonian officials. There are 24 official languages of the European Union, including no Russian. Indeed, the question may arise as to why it is in English, why not in French, etc. But that's the deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U138	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U139	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear colleague Heljo Pikhof! Since we are discussing this issue so thoroughly, there is therefore a problem. Can this not be resolved by relying on the provisions of §§ 51 and 52 of the Constitution, which say that in municipalities where the native language of the majority of permanent residents is not Estonian, the language of the local government may be the language of the permanent residents? Is this request not a first-level legal aid issue? If we were to bring first-level legal aid to the local government, then it would automatically be the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U140	In fact, it is important that the legal aid of the state is guaranteed to anyone who is entitled to it, whether or not the person who needs it is able to fill in the application in Estonian. But if you go from here to here, the Commission said that the number of people who qualify for legal aid when applying for legal aid is very small. Let's look at the conditions that are set here, the human income, etc. I'm sure a lot of people would need free legal aid, but they can't. It should also be examined.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U141	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Explain to me why you decided, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, to kill this bill today instead of giving him a little grace, waiting for the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice, who is buried in work, to decide whether to kill or leave alive and what to do with him, this child, at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U143	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, the Chancellor of Justice had not delivered an opinion in time, i.e. by the time the Commission had to send this draft to the Chamber. We have our own procedural rules that we cannot violate. I understand he hasn't given that opinion to this day. If you receive the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice, you will have the opportunity to re-submit this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U144	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, To be honest, it is a little surprising that today, 24 years after Estonia regained independence, there is a bill on our desk, where the language issue is discussed. A bill stating that 30% of the citizens of the Republic of Estonia are discriminated against because they do not have a real chance of obtaining legal protection from the state because they do not know the official language. We did not hear any examples today of such 'discrimination'. In view of this 24 years, it can be said with 100% certainty that it is not 30% of our society that does not speak Estonian. I don't even know how many people who don't speak the official language couldn't say that percentage either. This percentage is extremely low. After regaining independence, the Estonian state has made great efforts to enable all people living here to learn the Estonian language. We have an integration programme, its continuation has been another integration programme, which has been spent over one billion kroons. Even now, in the time of the euro, the teaching of the Estonian language of all people living here is supported. In addition, Estonian is taught in schools and in kindergartens. So the question of whether anyone can speak Estonian or does not speak Estonian or is discriminated against actually comes back to a very simple matter: the will to speak, the will to learn, the will to speak the official language. We are looking at international monitoring, which monitors precisely these human rights issues, possible discrimination on ethnic, linguistic and other issues. They have never found anyone discriminated against in Estonia. The Estonians, the Russians and other nationalities that live in Estonia, by the way, 192 are exactly the same as the constitutional rights to the protection of the state as legal aid and to conduct their affairs in all areas. We have the same fundamental rights, the same human rights. I see, and the EKRE Group sees, in presenting this draft, rather an attempt to divide the unity already formed in Estonian society. These statements, which we can read in the explanatory memorandum to this draft, and we heard from the rapporteur today, are more of a matter of Moscow propaganda. Yes, indeed, some people do not speak Estonian, but that does not mean that they do not receive legal aid in Estonia. It doesn't mean that. Recently, we went to Narva with a member of the Central Party, met with the officials and mayor there. There remained the sound of one phrase which I made in my speech at the end of... Just a few more moments, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U145	Please add a few moments, up to three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U146	Thank you. ...I want to tell you here. It said: 'Do not believe this story in Tallinn because we have no people speaking Estonian here because there is no opportunity to speak Estonian because there is no practice. We all speak English here. ' So it's who wants it, it gets everything. Thank you. I'm sorry! Finally, I will also say that the Conservative People's Party of Estonia does not support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U147	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U148	I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject the draft 14 at first reading. We need to vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 14 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the commission's proposal, 20 against and no one abstained. Draft 14 has been rejected at first reading. See you later! Closure of the sitting at 12.49 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable performer! The application for legal aid submitted in non-Estonian means that the language requirement has been violated. No number shall be given and the application shall normally be submitted to the procedure. It didn't come up in the committee that the proposed legislative amendment could eliminate the violation of this language requirement, albeit a small one? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U150	Thank you for your question. Yes, in our committee, that was the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U151	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dimitriev has put a serious problem on the table. This is a very important area for the functioning of state legal aid and the rule of law at all. The Estonian legal system certainly has where to develop. However, unfortunately, the bill on the table today does not solve the real problem facing our legal system and legal space. It is not quite the right initiator of these reasonings, I did not like to read them, which place native speakers of Russian in the number of people with lower levels of education and less economically insured, who therefore have less access to legal aid. Surely this is not the case. The lack of access to justice through the possibility of state legal assistance does not depend on nationality or language, but is a much wider problem, which is why I do not think this recital in the draft law is sufficient. It must also be considered an important drawback of the draft that the initiator of the draft brings out the application for state legal aid in Russian as a solution. As we have heard, the cases where people's applications have not been accepted simply because of the language problem have not been heard. If a person is unable to submit an application for legal aid in Estonian, according to common practice, the interpreters help to translate this application into our language of procedure. Rather, the problem begins with the fact that the application and the accompanying documents do not prove the person's need for free legal aid. This is where the real problem lies, especially in civil matters. This is the complex task facing our legal system and the state to review these foundations, how and to what extent free state legal aid is given at all. I'm sure that's a little help right now. As Minister of Justice, I visited Narva and the courthouse there several times. I will tell you from a direct source that I did not hear there that state legal aid has been deprived of because of a lack of national language skills. I didn't hear that either in several other Estonian courthouses. Rather, it was heard that the reason was the rule laid down by law, the conditions for access to state aid were too strict and it was difficult to apply for this aid. While we allocate nearly EUR 4 million a year to state legal aid, it is certainly not an amount that would cover people's legal needs. That is why I started an activity in the Ministry already last year aimed at reviewing our state's legal aid system and offering new solutions. By the way, a large part of free legal aid dissolves in support of different criminal proceedings. Sad as it may be, the cost of protecting drunk drivers comes first. However, people's administrative costs, especially those of civil procedure, are often not covered and, I would emphasise once again, not because of language problems. In criminal proceedings, however, we have taken a number of steps to ensure that people have the necessary translation and protection in their own language, as well as support for the victim, regardless of their mother tongue. This bill is about to get here on our tables. Several steps have certainly been taken to improve the legal awareness of people who do not speak Estonian as their mother tongue. Last year was created, let me remind you, the Russian version of the website juristtaitab.ee, which contains interactive questions and answers, and which also provides solutions for those who need legal assistance in Russian. The 50 most important laws of the Republic of Estonia that deal with our daily lives were also translated into Russian. All of this was mostly done in cooperation with the Lawyers' Association. However, I dare say that there is little of this to guarantee equal legal protection for people under the Constitution. Therefore, there are also several points in the Government Union agreement to improve this situation. We see the need to improve the legal protection of people in need of assistance and to facilitate access to legal aid. This means the same set of rules as those entitled to receive this assistance. The foundations of state legal aid must be reviewed so that weaker members of society can also receive legal aid if necessary. The second point of the government union agreement is that there is a need to significantly improve the legal awareness and access to legislation for all Estonian residents, including the availability of free legal assistance in the most common mother tongues in Estonia. In conclusion, I would like to say that this problem requires a much broader approach than the draft offers in order to ensure that people have real access to legislation, law enforcement and state legal aid. We must also ensure, at the legislative level, that the mother tongue of a person is not an obstacle to making a request for state legal aid. To do so, the language of legal proceedings does not need to be changed in law, but the people must be provided with a translation in every judicial institution. The aim of the state can only be one: the highest possible standard of protection of civil rights and the creation of different forms of protection, including free of charge. These are the reasons why the SDE Group today does not support this draft of the Centre Party. We want to see, at the end of the year, the analysis of the Ministry of Justice, which is provided for in the government's action plan, and, over the next year, drafts to remedy the shortcomings identified in this analysis. An inter-party working group has been set up for this purpose. This problem must be a complex solution. However, merely pointing out one, but only a linguistic problem, is quite soon disappointing when documents were received in the native language, for example in Russian, but no legal aid was received from the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U152	Thank you. I will answer so much that it is difficult to answer this question on the basis of the data we have received for this year. The fact that people also approached the previous Chancellor of Justice, who made his assessment of the matter, suggests that there is still a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U153	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U154	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good colleague! I agree, of course, that there is a problem. I'm sure it exists. But here it is now important, on which side we are going to solve this and how we will see the effectiveness of this solution in the future perspective. By giving a special right in one matter, even in the case of legal aid, we are setting a precedent which very clearly puts pressure on other public services. That would be a very, very risky subject. However, do you not think that it would be much more effective to contribute to national language courses, to stress the possibilities of studying Estonian, to ensure that Estonian society is more coherent and unified and that we do not have debates on whether someone's native language is Estonian or Russian, but we would all accept others? I have many good acquaintances from Ida-Virumaa, whom we speak very freely in Estonian. Rather, this topic should be promoted in order to improve the opportunities for learning Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U155	Thank you for your question. You've changed my presentation a little bit, the principles of the bill I introduced, and the information I gave from this remote. I wasn't talking about splitting up. I spoke about legal aid in situations where a person does not speak enough Estonian or does not know it at all. This issue was already raised in 2012 and continued. The fact that we do not see this in the statistics shows a lack of statistics, because the courts' registers do not give us this data, there is no record of the language of the applications. This does not mean that there is no problem or that it cannot arise in the near future. This means that we need to correct the systemic error so that we do not have to deal with the fire later when another citizen turns to the Chancellor of Justice or the Riigikogu, because he has remained without state legal aid because the current version of the Act provides for the filing of an application only in Estonian or English.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U156	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U157	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I would like to ask you the Chancellor of Justice's position on this bill. You once mentioned it, but can you be more specific?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U159	Thank you, my good colleague, for the question. I must certainly speak of both the position of the previous Chancellor of Justice and the reaction of the current Chancellor of Justice to the draft that we have tabled. The former Chancellor of Justice announced through the BNS that he agrees that the problem we are talking about in this Chamber exists. Unfortunately, he was not able to deal with it in substance. We have also asked the current Chancellor of Justice, Ülle Madis, about the draft. Unfortunately, neither by the time of the Commission's sitting, nor by this day, have we received the final position of the Chancellor of Justice. In his interim reply, he mentioned that they had started to check the constitutionality of the language requirement and had turned to the Ministry of Justice, the Estonian Bar Association and the Association of Estonian Judges. He promised they'd make the final statement as soon as possible. In fact, this is an important day today when we are already discussing this issue in the big Chamber. But, yes, unfortunately, I do not have the final position of the Chancellor of Justice at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U160	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U161	Thank you. As far as legal aid is concerned, the Estonian language must, of course, be used in Estonian regardless of nationality or mother tongue. As I understand your answer, that is the case. My question is motivated by the fact that I read in the newspapers that the Centre Party has taken a major step forward. Tallinn Television explains to us that Edgar Savisaar has also been one of the recreators of the nation state. I understand that Mrs Samson supports the granting of certain state status to Russian by small steps. Will Edgar Savisaar support this bill on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U162	That's what you can ask Edgar.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U163	That's the answer, I get it. Martin Repinski.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Dmitri Dmitriev! I agree that people living in Estonia with a second mother tongue must learn Estonian and that it will be much easier for them to live in Estonia. I think most of us agree. But it is clear that the young Estonian Russians, to a large extent, speak Estonian, but older people find it a little harder to learn it. Do you agree that it is not right that many resources, such as the business register, are available in English and Estonian, but are not available in Russian, even though there are many more Russian-speaking people in Estonia than there are English-speaking people?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U165	Thank you for your question. Of course, I agree that it would be positive if our society, regardless of what someone's native language is, either Estonian, Russian or other, were well informed. In which language different agencies should provide information on their website, its analysis could be done separately either by the Ministry of Justice or by another ministry, depending on the administrative area in which these agencies operate. But I fully agree with you that the more official information it is possible to reach the citizens of our country, the better.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U166	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U167	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, As I understand it, you cannot give any example where people would have been prevented from obtaining legal aid due to the lack of knowledge of the Estonian language. It seems all the worse to claim that 30% do not have a real opportunity to apply to the state for legal aid and are discriminated against. 30% makes more than 300,000 people who are then allegedly discriminated against in Estonia. I don't know where such claims come from. I'd understand if somewhere in the Moscow propaganda channels could hear such a thing. For what purpose is such a statement made at all, and does it not serve more to divide society?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U168	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U169	Thank you for your question. If we give all this money to the courts, it will certainly reduce access to legal aid. Currently, non-profit organisations, lawyers and others are providing free legal aid to people in the regions. If you hand it over to the courts, there's not enough resources. At the moment, this, let's say, the service provider circle is much, much wider.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U170	Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. This is a first reading, so the representatives of the political groups have the right to participate in the negotiations. Andres Anvelt, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U171	Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U172	Thank you for your question. I agree with you. First of all, we have a compulsory command of the national language. Let's just say that mastering different languages enriches society in every way. However, if a person who, at the moment, does not speak Estonian is in a situation where he or she needs legal aid from the state, then we cannot question his or her fundamental right to the defence of the court solely because he or she has not reached, wanted or managed to learn the official language. This is another issue that can be discussed, but I agree with you that the language issue is what needs to be developed further in our society.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U173	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U174	Thank you, good Chairman. Honourable waitress! I'll come back to the earlier theme development. After all, in the Commission, we have finally come to the conclusion that none of the facts that a request for legal aid had been rejected because of the non-compliance with the language requirement were found. In fact, such a problem does not exist. Did we get such a result in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-22_U175	Thank you. Since the Commission proposed to reject the draft, those who voted in favour of the proposal have obviously reached some kind of conclusion. I'm still sticking to my position. People in their time turned to the Chancellor of Justice and there have been some of the problems I've been talking about here. So there's a problem.
