ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 4th plenary session. First of all, please let us know who wants to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Estonian Central Party will present a draft law which provides for the amendment of the Law of Obligations Act. The purpose of the amendment is to supplement the Law of Obligations Act in order to give the consumer the opportunity to transfer to the creditor or the creditor's intermediary, in a difficult economic situation, the assets designated as security in such a way as to cover the existing and potential costs associated with the credit. A legislative amendment is needed, as taking credit is a normal decision in today's society that allows informed consumers to improve their quality of life under favourable conditions. However, no one is protected from the fact that for some reason the debt burden becomes intolerable and that there may be a high risk of over-indebtedness or over-indebtedness. As a result of the 2008 financial crisis, many families lost their homes and left their home acquisition transactions poorer than ever. Upon the entry into force of the Act, people's over-indebtedness and the risk of over-indebtedness resulting from over-consumption would be reduced, which is burdensome for the Estonian social security system. It would also help to prevent the failure that arose as a result of the 2008 financial crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U3	There's no more calls. I have adopted one draft law, which will be processed in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, please, the presence check! All right, 83 is here, 18 is missing. Now, from the agenda. Honourable Riigikogu, the authors of the inquiry withdrew on 18 August the inquiry submitted to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas regarding the government's information policy. It was number 68 and we had a fourth item on the agenda. That's not going to happen now, because the question has been withdrawn. By this amendment, I shall vote on the adoption of the weekly agenda. Please take a stand and vote. 77 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, one against and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U4	Let's start answering questions. Kadri Simson, Marika Tuus-Laul, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Lauri Laasi, Andrei Novikov, Dmitri Dmitriev, Enn Esmaa, Tarmo Tamm, Rein Ratas, Olga Ivanova, Jüri Ratas, Martin Repinski, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Karilaid, Priit Toobal, Aadu Must, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka and Mikhail Korb have submitted the first question. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U5	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce an inquiry on behalf of 22 members of the Riigikogu, which was handed over to the Prime Minister at the beginning of the summer. This concerns the cluster bill and was handed over a few days before the Riigikogu was given the opportunity to vote in favour of changing tax increases. I would remind you that on 25 May, the Government handed over to the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws, which wanted to amend seven laws at the same time. It has always been our custom that when one law is changed, other laws that are not relevant will not be grafted into it. Sometimes it's been done. The reason is very simple. The members of the Riigikogu have the right to ask a specific number of questions in the debates and, if three or more taxes are raised at the same time, one particular tax increase cannot be focused on. At the beginning of these tax increases, the government went around in a way that, when the tax increases were coordinated among its own ministers, there were three different draft laws. There was a separate draft amending the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws. Secondly, there was a separate draft amending the VAT Act, which was intended to increase VAT on accommodation companies. Thirdly, the draft amendment to the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity aimed at increasing excise duties on fuel from 1 January next year. The three drafts in one package arrived at the Riigikogu. So the draft wanted to increase the rate of VAT and excise duties on accommodation services, to eliminate the tax credit on adult hobbies training and to reduce the total amount of deductions and social security contributions allowed from the taxable income of the natural person. When this bill finally went to the vote in the Riigikogu, the opportunity was no longer given to discuss amendments one by one. This is probably to prevent a debate that not every tax increase is feasible. A week ago, Marje Josing, the head of the Conjuncture Institute, pointed out that raising consumption taxes and excise duties could harm our economy more seriously than we thought so far, as changes in the price of inputs could drag some sectors of the economy out of the carpet and make this sector uncompetitive compared to Latvia and Lithuania. Apparently, some people belonging to the coalition felt that way, but they would have voted against some unfair tax increases. The President, when he declared this law, also pointed out that such a way of adopting laws was not right. This way has even been named and it is 'bad lawmaking'. As a result, 22 members of the Riigikogu primarily have the question of whether this is now the so-called new normality, that the Riigikogu is not actually given the opportunity to participate in the decision-making of matters in substance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U6	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to your inquiry on 11 June on the cluster bill submitted by the government. The first question: 'Why did the government decide to submit a cluster bill to the proceedings of the Riigikogu on 25 May and not three separate drafts such as the coordination circle of ministries? ' The whole package of tax changes aims to shift the tax burden from labour to consumption taxation, in particular to harmful consumption taxation. All the amending laws are linked in a fiscal sense to the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws. According to the government, lowering labour taxes will contribute to economic growth and thus affect the livelihoods of all of us. In addition, all these tax changes were made on the basis of the same objective. These are changes that the government has also taken into account in putting together the state budget strategy for the next four years. In addition, of course, some excise changes also have a clear consumption reduction objective. The adoption of all these drafts as a law was to take place at least six months before the entry into force of our earlier decisions and agreements. All these decisions are also necessary to maintain Estonia's level of defence expenditure at least 2% of GDP, reduce labour taxes, promote economic growth, improve the livelihood of low-paid people and families with children. The second question: 'Why was the draft law amending the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws submitted so late to the Riigikogu proceedings? This behaviour led to an urgent draft procedure where the Ministry of Finance did not even have time to analyse the amendments submitted to the draft. ' All the changes concerned the programme of action of the Government of the Republic and the action plan for fulfilling the government's priorities during the first hundred days of office. The opening session of the XIII Riigikogu was held on 30 March. The government took office on 9 April and handed the draft to the Riigikogu on 25 May. If you look at these dates, you cannot say that there is any delay in processing the draft. It was between 9 April and 25 May that the draft was drawn up, coordinated and approved by the Government of the Republic. For the legislator, this meant that the processing of the bill in the Riigikogu remained at the end of the spring session and the members of the Riigikogu had to attend an additional plenary session. It is, of course, Parliament's own decision on the pace of planning the procedure for the drafts, but I consider it very important, however, that these drafts were adopted before going on summer leave, rather than leaving a shorter time for entry into force and further processing in the autumn. Question 3: 'Why does the Government of the Republic not take into account the internal working arrangements and procedural practices established in the Riigikogu when submitting drafts? ' The Government handed over the draft to the Riigikogu on 25 May and then the procedure of the draft was continued in the Riigikogu according to the legislation determining the organisation of the work of the Riigikogu. As you well know, the government does not dictate the pace of proceedings in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U8	Questions for the Prime Minister. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister! The logic of your answer was very amazing. You argued that all draft laws had one objective: to reduce harmful consumption. We remember that in this package, too, the point of raising VAT on accommodation facilities has caused quite a lot of resentment. Are you really saying that the aim was to reduce the provision of accommodation services? What's the end of it supposed to be a harmful habit?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U10	When you listened carefully to my answer, you heard that the same objective that all these drafts have is fiscal. In addition, some of the draft excise duties have the additional objective of reducing harmful consumption. I believe that you agree with me that the increase in both alcohol and tobacco excise duty, which your colleague mentioned among the tax increases, is actually very justified. There is no screaming need to consider alcohol and tobacco as essential goods, which must be subject to very favourable taxation. On the contrary, consumption of both alcohol and tobacco, especially excessive consumption, poses very serious problems both for these people themselves and for society as a whole. Alcohol and tobacco consumption is, in fact, a negative sign for society, even if they are very heavily taxed and to benefit very much from this excise duty. Public health is deteriorating and the costs associated with it tend to exceed excise duties to a large extent. As far as excise duties on fuel are concerned, the more fossil fuels are consumed, the bigger the motor car is used to drive, the greater the damage to the environment. That's a fact. If we look at trends in the fuel market, you may also know that even after all the changes that have affected fuel excise duties, the price of fuel in Estonia is still far from the level we had a few years ago. So, in my opinion, it is inappropriate to say that in the current absolute recession of the market, a few cents of the price goes beyond society. All the more so when we know that it helps to finance quite a number of important steps. I am thinking, for example, of child benefits, income support and also of lowering direct taxes. Now from the VAT on accommodation services. In my opinion, it would make sense for all services to have the same VAT rate. If we want to support one sector or another, let us not do so through a tax subsidy which is very expensive for society and, as we know, pays tens of millions for accommodation services alone. Rather, we support this sector with a direct allocation. Very many countries have decided to change their tax policy and move in the same direction. Even before these neighbouring countries with whom we are competing, next year will reduce tax differences and not make them more. For example, Latvia plans to increase the value added tax (VAT) on cultural services, the organisation of these events is a service similar to that of accommodation services. And accommodation services will still be subject to preferential VAT. The taxpayer will continue to support this sector in the future by collecting taxes from it at a lower rate than from other services. I am pleased to say that the fulfilment of accommodation facilities has improved considerably in recent months. From the end of last year until June, the number of foreign tourists was smaller than at the same time last year, and this decline was compensated to some extent, but not every month for a significant increase in domestic tourism. During the last two months, for which we have detailed information, both in July and in August, there has been a significant increase in both the number of domestic tourists and the number of foreign tourists and thus the total number of accommodations. It can be seen that the sector's figures for recent months have been more positive than they were a year ago. Thus, the allegations that the sector is in a very deep crisis do not confirm the facts. It is still important to know that all of these changes make it possible to reduce labour taxes and raise the tax-free minimum in Estonia. We can also increase the tax-free minimum for pensioners and ensure that the average pension is tax-free in the future. These are important changes. Each of us in this Chamber has decided whether there is too much to ask of a bottle of beer or vodka if we can use it to reduce people's tax and social tax burden.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U11	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! Our President, Toomas Hendrik Ilves, is such an exceptional practice of government and parliament, I am thinking of submitting and processing a cluster bill. What conclusions have you drawn from this presidential reference?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U13	Thank you. Of course, if there had been time in Parliament to deal with these issues throughout the summer, if Parliament's session did not end before Midsummer Day, but in August, for example, then the process could have been built so that it would have been possible to deal with each draft at length and in depth in Parliament. But for me, it is very important that we have made a promise to Estonian entrepreneurs and society in general, this promise is also reflected in the Tax Administration Act, that at least six months before the law enters into force, the law has been passed in Parliament. With all due respect to Parliament, you had a choice whether the law would be passed immediately before entry into force, or you would have to do a few more working days in the summer to get the necessary drafts processed. It was the choice that Parliament itself made, not I, and the decision was, in my opinion, the right one.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U14	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! In 2012, Andrus Ansip committed to the budget the so-called abortion law, the law on alcohol excise duty and the law on the prosecutor's office. Basically, the pig, the cuckoo and maybe the perch were bound together. It was later said that this vicious practice would not be dealt with in the future. I think the honourable Eiki Nestor said a year earlier, in 2011, that in this way, for convenience, the government simply tries to cross the Riigikogu and turn it into a rubber stamp. Do you agree with the statement of the President of the honourable Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U16	Thank you. As far as the cluster bill is concerned, in 2009, the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which I was chairing, was indeed to be confronted with a very different legislative amendment. They had a fiscal dimension, but this was not the main focus of these legislative changes. We made some very difficult decisions at the time. In order for the Estonian state to survive the crisis, we have made very serious reforms, including in the social field. This had a huge impact on the state budget. I'm saying that at the time, no matter how the white gloves were assessed, it was necessary to make quick decisions. In some areas we should have acted even faster. If you miss the right moment during the crisis, the cost to society could be very, very high. Of course, ideally, we should have also avoided dealing with completely different laws in different areas through the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Some of these drafts would probably have had to be sent to the Committee on Social Affairs and some to another committee, if we were to follow up on this point in a timely manner. But I think it was necessary at that moment. Now, under normal circumstances, I fully agree with what the President of the Riigikogu has said. Under normal circumstances, solutions such as the amendment of the Tax Act and the amendment of the Embryo Protection Act referred to by you should be avoided. Their contact point is small. However, my experience from the Riigikogu is, of course, much shorter than that of the Chairman of the Riigikogu, but at the same time longer than that of many people in the Chambers, so I dare to refer to it as saying that drafts with different content, which are very closely related to one subject area, have been put together before one draft and will probably be put together in the future. This is in the case of five laws, for example, but the purpose of amending them all is the same. It has been done, and I believe that it has also been justified. To automatically say that any change in several laws at once is bad, I find it inappropriate. I have not looked at your agenda this week, but if I had to make a contribution, I would rather bet that there are probably some drafts on the agenda of this week that want to amend several laws, and perhaps there is some rational reason for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U17	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U18	Thank you. Prime Minister! In answering the above question, you said that this was not government pressure, that Parliament had to discuss all tax increases in one cluster bill, so Parliament did not have the opportunity to vote on amendments. You didn't tell the truth. The fact that this law was adopted in one vote and without the possibility of voting on amendments was a decision of the Bureau of the Reform Party. The President has said in this respect that the desire of the government departments to quickly turn their electoral promises into a law cannot justify a severe reduction in the possibilities of parliamentary debate. He expressed his hope that he would no longer have to speak on the same subject and that in the future the government would act by sending draft laws to the Riigikogu for discussion as appropriate for the democratic parliamentary regime. Do you understand that there was a problem during this procedure: it took away the rights granted to it by Parliament. Will you refrain from such a procedure in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U19	I'm asking you to be specific when you quote me. I did not say that it was not government pressure to submit three tax changes or three separate drafts at once. The government filed a bill. That is, of course, true, and no one denies it. But I stressed that the pace of the parliamentary procedure was not dictated by the government. Theoretically, it would have been possible to process them further. I would remind you that your group's proposal was to link both these changes and a number of other issues to the government's trust. For the same reason, you submitted a motion of distrust to the Prime Minister, and I therefore had to return earlier from the Council meeting, where it would certainly have been possible to represent Estonia's interests. But, of course, if Parliament makes such a serious statement, the Prime Minister will come back. I stood before you, answered the questions, and there was a vote. That was the choice. After that, it was already clear to me that if Parliament voted once on the question of trust in these matters, it could also do so several times in a row. Whether the government would survive or not was dependent on each vote. And the Members of Parliament were all able to make their choice. I remember you also pointed out back then that the government blocked the debate by linking these drafts to the question of trust at second reading. Your second-reading plan was very long to process, taking ten-minute breaks. I would point out that, in my opinion, this is, of course, in accordance with Parliament's Rules of Procedure, but it is very difficult to call it a debate. We have held many long night sessions with you in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, and I think we both admit, frankly, that this is not a debate, but a stall allowed by the Rules of Procedure. Instead of taking ten-minute breaks and not discussing the content of the draft, the government's call for a vote of confidence in each specific draft offered an opportunity to ask. And there was also a motion of distrust for the Prime Minister you took. Thus, in four points, everyone was able to ask questions. If I remember correctly now, this parliamentary debate lasted about 11 hours. Very rarely, there is such a long substantive debate on drafts without any breaks. It was a substantive debate, 11 hours in a row. In conclusion, I think that these issues were much better negotiated if you could have had your tactics left behind, that let's not talk about content, take ten-minute breaks and hope that the government union breaks.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U20	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! In your reply, you said that the adopted cluster law will contribute to growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U22	Yes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U23	How do you think the implementation of this law will do this in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U24	That's a good question! These laws reduce the labour tax burden on all Estonian people. Very different international and domestic studies have highlighted how the reduction of labour taxes will have a positive impact on economic growth. The reduction of social tax, the increase of the tax-free minimum and also the reduction of the tax burden on low-paid people will help to reduce the burden of labour taxes in Estonia. By this, it is more advantageous to create jobs in our country, but more importantly in my view: I believe that this additional money will allow us to raise wages faster in Estonia. If wages rise faster in Estonia, people's purchasing power will also increase and this effect will, of course, be positive. I think that is what is important, standing before a free choice, whether to prefer the higher taxation of people's work or the higher taxation of harmful consumption, such as alcohol and tobacco. I think that the tax burden must continue to be shifted step by step from taxation of people's work to taxation of harmful consumption.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U25	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! You have quite nicely admitted here that, under normal circumstances, questions that are incompatible should not be put together in draft laws. A draft such as the draft amendment to the Accounting Act has now been submitted to the proceedings of the Riigikogu, which is intended, among other things, to amend the Income Tax Act and the Social Tax Act. This morning, when the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft, it came to the conclusion that these things are not compatible. And the Committee on Economic Affairs also took the view that it was necessary to address the Committee on Monetary Affairs and to request the Government, if possible, to go to first reading as amended. We've been talking so much about all these things over the years. Please tell me what the reason is that things like this happen over and over again! When will such vicious legislation be brought to an end? And don't we have a normal situation right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U27	It is probably Parliament's right to split up the draft laws, to appoint several executive committees or to decide to leave the laws to be amended together and to ask for the opinion of another Commission. It is often the case that even amending one law in Parliament requires the assessment of three or more committees. Very many of the complete texts of the law are much wider than a minor amendment to a specific law, which, for example, concerns tax laws at the margins. To automatically call any draft law that concerns several laws at once vicious is, in my opinion, inappropriate. However, if Parliament decides that it is more appropriate to deal with these laws separately, to appoint different commissioning committees for them, it will be possible to do so on the basis of a Commission decision within the framework of any possible amendments. This practice, where the draft has been drafted in several ways, still happens, but there is even more practice where the drafts have been put together in Parliament. That is Parliament's right. There is no obligation to adopt all legislative proposals in Parliament exactly as the government has proposed. Parliament has at least the same role as the government, if not the greater, in designing draft laws. Parliament is still a legislative body and, above all, the difficulty of legislation is precisely Parliament's responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U28	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U29	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! Let me give you a couple of examples where you are seriously wrong. Latvia is not moving towards tax harmonisation, but towards differences. Latvia, for example, is moving towards progressive income tax, and next year they already have an additional level of income tax, a solidarity tax. So please look into it! The other thing is that the increase in excise duty never favours the business climate. You claim that the increase in excise duties will have a positive effect on businesses, but talk to businesses about it. If the excise duty on diesel increases by 14%, this is not a business-friendly step. But I'm asking specifically. Tax increases may be accepted by the Riigikogu six months before they become effective. But the draft on state fees was only brought to the Riigikogu and the new rates will be in force as early as 1 January 2016. How do you comment that, one month before the start of the new financial year, the tax will be increased again to try to collect an additional million euros?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U30	I'm sure you also know that state fees and state taxes are different things. In the case of state fees, in this case, it is mostly a clarification of the rates that have been in place for a long time, which is due, among other things, to the principle that state fees must be cost-based in the Republic of Estonia, which has long been approved by Parliament. Basically, we have not done very much to subsidise or cross-subsidise procedures relating to state fees. And if we see that some procedure has become much more expensive or has been underestimated in its time, then the state fees must be changed. But I really don't know where your information comes from about the progressive income tax that will apply in Latvia. In Latvia, income tax is just as proportional as in Estonia, but the reduction of income tax agreed earlier next year will indeed be avoided in Latvia. In Latvia, excise duties on alcohol, tobacco and fuel are rising. And as at least one tax distinction, which will be reduced, i.e. whose tax rate will be increased, I can mention the value added tax (VAT) on cultural services. There may be more. If you have any alternative information, I'd like to hear it with great interest. In general, however, there is nothing secret about Latvia's fiscal policy. The draft has already been submitted to Parliament by the Latvian Government, and you will probably be able to make sure that what I have just told you is true by looking directly at the source. As regards the impact of excise duties on the economy, I would argue that neither the increase nor the fall will have a significant impact on the economy as a whole. However, the reduction in labour taxes will have a major impact. Why am I saying this? If we look at the trend in fuel prices over the last few months and years, we can see that fuel is now about 1.3 to 1.4 times cheaper than it was a few years ago. The absolute evaluation was carried out in 2012 when, for example, the price of 95 euros of petrol was 1.45 litres. At present, it costs just over the euro. Even if we add up the excise increases for several years, we will not reach the levels where we have been. And given that the price of fuel is also affected by excise duties in our neighbouring countries, for example, in Latvia, as I have already said, I am absolutely convinced that this ca 5-cent excise surcharge per litre of fuel cannot have a major impact. The price difference between a year and a few years ago is severalty euro cents. And the price is cheaper now, not more expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U31	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U32	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I would like to draw attention to the price increase in Latvia concerning excise duties on alcohol. In fact, when the alcohol excise tax rose, there were letters in the liquor shops and everywhere else where the alcohol was sold that the money from the alcohol excise would go to support the school lunches. As we know, money has been found to support school lunches just as much as it is now. But I wanted to talk about a completely different subject, namely your observation that raising excise duty on fuel means taxation of consumption and people should choose cars that are less fuel-intensive. In this connection, I have a question that, in a sense, maybe sounds like a proposal. I see in my office window all the time how you two car-wrecked us here in the Riigikogu. One is your new powerful car, and the other is your bodyguard car. You haven't considered, do you think maybe we could walk five minutes from Stenbock's house to meet us? Maybe we could meet people on the way. What do you think of this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U33	Thank you. If that's what my schedule allows, I'd be happy to walk. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister's schedule most days lacks hours and minutes, not over. Therefore, not only am I missing the time to walk, but it often happens that the first meal of the day is not until the sun is set and the clock shows the evening hours. But when it comes to school lunches, I am pleased to say that they are supported by the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U34	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U35	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Prime Minister! I will try to quote as precisely as possible, because before you made a remark to my colleague that we need to be precise. You said that if you missed the right moment during the crisis, the cost to society would be very high. We were talking about the 2009 state budget. I now have this question: are you sure that you have missed nothing during the current immigration crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U36	In this time of immigration crisis, we must act decisively, Europeanly and with dignity. We must show that Estonia is not alone in Europe either. We are a country that knows that if we need help, we can count on our allies. And in this current crisis, we have the opportunity to show that we, too, can behave with dignity and help our allies when they need help. And we're helping them just as much as we can.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U37	An inquiry is about a cluster bill. Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U38	Prime Minister! Very interesting, but it's sad to hear your answers. It's even a little smiling. I must sadden you, however, because the united cooperation and solidarity you have said in the European Union has long since been vexed. For example, only a few Italian Members voted in favour of the resolution on the Eston Suitcase in the European Parliament. So much for helping each other! But I'm going back to the matter of the cluster bill. Politically, it is very useful and very right to use the words 'taxation of harmful consumption, savings, economic growth', etc. Eventually, someone in the crowd will even believe. However, we are talking about an increase in excise duties on fuel, which is precisely affecting the most vulnerable population in society. When it comes to purchasing economical cars, there is no doubt that the greenest electric cars used by a large number of local social workers are the most environmentally friendly ones. Perhaps it would be wise to take a snit and set an example by using a more sustainable electric car instead of Audi A8, which is a very expensive car.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U39	Personally, I wouldn't have the least against it. As Minister of Social Affairs, I've traded a service car for an electric car for the coldest winter of the week. I have replaced my official car to make sure that in the winter it is possible for Estonian social workers to drive in such a way that the windows of the car are not frosty and that the car can pass sufficient distances. However, in my current office, I have no opportunity to speak on matters relating to my own means of transport. If I tried to take my family's own car and take it around the city, I'd break the rules. So it is no longer appropriate for us to have a debate on this matter. As for the story that made you both sad and smiling at the same time, I heard that it was precisely the car owners and I understand that it is especially the owners of large cars that are the most vulnerable target group in Estonia. Think for a moment if you actually think that way, and also think about the trend in fuel prices in recent years. If it is true that the owners of high-powered cars are the most vulnerable target group, they should be doing very well now. Fuel prices are record low, and even after several years of excise tax increases, we have not reached the level where we were six months or a year ago. So, in this context, this most vulnerable target group you have mentioned should certainly not suffer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U40	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I was happy to follow your rhetoric to justify the cluster laws. Logic was not enough for me, but ballet, for example, is not even the most logical way to reflect events. I listened to you up to the point where you argued, by justifying the imposition of a cluster bill, that this is how we are put in the process of choosing whether we want to tax work or whether we want to tax harmful habits, such as tobacco and alcohol. That's exactly what you said. And then I realized that this is another little hat trick: you're putting excise duties together. Do you really think that the use of electricity in our homes and the heating of our rooms are also harmful habits that must be taxed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U42	Speaking of harmful consumption, I stressed that I am thinking above all of tobacco and alcohol, which, as a doctor, you hardly have any reason to doubt, like the rest of us. In this respect, we have a complete understanding of each other. The tax policy of developed world countries is considered necessary to tax excise duty, the theoretical purpose of which is to influence consumption, in particular consumption based on fossil fuels, whether related to transport or other activities. The logic of tax policy is that this consumption is environmentally hazardous. As far as Estonia is concerned, first of all, a very large part of the room warm has not been subject to excise duty at all. It depends on the specific energy carrier. In the case of electricity, the proportion of excise duty in the final price is quite small, as you well know. But years ago, when it was decided that electricity was also subject to excise duty, it was probably meant that too much electricity from fossil fuels was consumed in the world and especially in developed countries. It damages the environment and puts the future of the earth at risk. I'm sure that's the reason. In your group, there are people who are a hundred times better off on this subject than I am, so they may be able to explain to you in more detail what the impact of excessive electricity consumption on the Earth's ecosystem might be.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U43	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U44	Thank you. Prime Minister! The way you answer questions about this yet again very much criticism of the cluster bill is, in fact, genuine demagogy. That doesn't exactly honor you. In fact, during this eight-hour debate, it was not the substance of this draft that was discussed, but basically why a normal debate is not allowed, why the opposition cannot act as envisaged in Parliament, but you are restricting it. Why do you want to continue with your predecessor, Andrus Ansip, on the road roll? Were you just afraid that the votes wouldn't come together on this bill? This is what the people are getting at right now, and your demagogic talk isn't gonna make it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U45	As often happens, I do not agree with you at all. But, of course, you have the right to your opinion, and I respect your position. In my opinion, the quality of the debate in Parliament is directly dependent on both questions and answers. While the questions mainly concern procedural issues, it is generally considered a good tone for the answers to relate more or less to the same subject. It must have been part of the questioners' work on what this debate would be like to see how much they talk about procedures, how much they talk about it. It should also be noted that the emphasis was placed on procedures to make the Riigikogu more comfortable, correct or fairer to deal with certain drafts. This is certainly an intellectually interesting debate, but in my opinion it is not as important as the content of these drafts: reducing labour taxes, limiting the consumption of alcohol and tobacco, ordering the tax system, finding the money so that Estonia will still have a budget balance in the future and be able to do important things. I will be honest with you that I would like to debate more on these issues, but of course I cannot come only to talk about content when it is the will of the heirs to focus on procedures.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U46	Thank you, Prime Minister, no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U47	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, today's inquiry concerns procedural issues, but as Parliamentary experience says, procedures must serve content. At the moment, it seems at times that the regulation makes the discussion one-sided. Inquiries, or members of the Riigikogu at all, have one minute to ask their questions; they must make good use of it and speak it in a concentrated manner. The answer may be, as you have seen, very long. And what's especially sad: there's one other thing you can talk about in your answer, something that's kind of close to the subject. Sometimes it is said that members of the Riigikogu often ask questions about their home village, see everything from the ends of their home village. It's not bad at all, because we're all on different hats. I've had a lot of meetings lately in the company of professors at the University of Tartu, at the professors' club. I was quite happy at first, but after I heard that the Riigikogu debate material was used quite enthusiastically in university teaching. It turns out that the teaching staff of Estonian will show the students how the Riigikogu abuses the lovely Estonian language. In a series of documents, no, fortunately not in the drafts, but in the explanatory notes there is some sort of slang, not the right Estonian language. Logical lecturers give the Minister's answer as an example of the fact that there is no announcement of the rules of logic. It explains what syllogism is and how people try to answer, etc. Turns out future politicalists are using our materials, lawyers are using our materials. After all, this list could be positive if its end were not negative. There are negative examples of how things shouldn't be at all. But let's look at this particular question. I may be a little ahead of events, but on similar matters, a respected lecturer from the Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu said that there were two different things. There's bellertrics where people talk about it, but they're going to go to an autopsy on another, but similar thing. The lecturer said that it is not law, it is not state science, it is not science at all, it is not even politics, but it is belleristics. Belletristika is also a great thing, but he does not always belong in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! If your faculty had asked you to talk about a specific law, and you would have started to talk about it, but you know, I'm telling you about the tobacco law and alcoholism and alcohol, and I would have kept saying that I couldn't count how many times, he would have told you to learn more and then come back. Or another thing. You made such a wonderful example that there are laws that improve several laws. Of course it is. We will change the name of one institution and, in this connection, we will correct the name of the same institution in many other laws. But it's not a cluster bill, it's a law. Unfortunately, there is the impression that there are different templates. If several drafts go through the government and they need to be analysed separately, but it is said that for the Riigikogu they should be one bill, then this is a major error of logic. It was also said that debates are sometimes fruitful and sometimes not fruitful. It was specifically about the debate on the draft cluster and the possibility of discussion. You know, it was possible to discuss belleristics. But a creative discussion is when Members can improve their drafts. I don't think about how to prank you at all. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U48	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U49	Some may also think about political complexion, but in general, members of the Riigikogu, believe me, are thinking about how life in Estonia would still be better. And if a member of the Riigikogu receives a draft of which he may speak, but in which he is deprived of the right to propose amendments by a vote of confidence, there is no political discussion. My performance was improvised by the fact that I felt harassed, that I couldn't intervene and correct things that I think are being misspelled from the remote. Ladies and gentlemen, we can. If we no longer have the opportunity to ask a question, or if we are not answered properly, the rule allows us to give a speech. Good luck and thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U50	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U51	Thank you, manager. Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The form of inquiries gives the member of the Riigikogu the right to object. When the Prime Minister stated that Latvia was moving towards reducing tax differences, I argued in my question and I am saying the opposite now. At its Tuesday session, the Latvian Government supported the proposal to introduce a so-called solidarity tax for highly paid people and in December work begins to establish a progressive tax system. Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma indicated that the relative tax burden on high-income persons in Latvia is lower than that of others and needs to be changed. According to the Ministry of Finance, over the next three years this tax will receive EUR 40,9 million in the budget. So, Prime Minister, I wasn't wrong in any way. You must have poor advisers or other assistants who are unable to obtain adequate information for you. You also talked about the increase in excise duties on fuel, and you always stressed that fuel prices are now cheaper than they were three or four years ago. But the same price is also in Latvia, Lithuania and other markets where we compete. The question is the final price that our company will receive the fuel, and there will be an excise duty that the state will put on it. Next year, the price of petrol will be increased by 10%, the price of diesel by 14%. As I recall, Latvia has a European minimum rate of excise duty on both electricity and diesel. For diesel, this minimum rate should be EUR 330 per 1000 litres. We will have it when the law finally comes into force, EUR 440 per 1000 litres. What kind of competitiveness are we talking about here? Let's talk about things with the right names! The final price is important for the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U52	The next speaker is Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U53	Prime Minister! As Mr Black has already mentioned, this speech chair is an excellent place to say its opposition to the Prime Minister. Mr. Clothes! You said before that you were supposed to be quoted accurately and correctly. I expect our Prime Minister to have enough dignity and honesty not to arbitrarily interpret the questions he has been asked. We are talking about people living in Estonia who belong to the most vulnerable social strata. The median wage for the second quarter of this year was 794 euros. Half of the population in Estonia is primarily people living outside of Tallinn.The population is worth less than 794 euros per month. They're the most vulnerable. I never mentioned that the most vulnerable in society were people driving a new Audi A8 or a car that consumes 15 litres of fuel to travel 100 kilometres. I didn't say it, you interpreted it that way. Fuel consumption is not the same as harmful consumption as the purchase of alcohol and tobacco. And people who earn little are also affected by the price of a litre of fuel, even if only 0.2 or 0.3 euros. Many of these people have to drive 20 to 30 kilometres to work every morning, raise children and manage it with a salary of less than EUR 800. I understand you don't understand, because you don't have that problem, but these people do. That's another thing. You will, for example, bring the price of fuel several years ago, where the price cap on 95 petrol was 1.45 euros per litre. True, it was. But does it really have to be our goal to get a lot of money from the people through tax increases and raise the price of fuel by saying that it is not more expensive than it used to be? Is it really sad for the government to leave the money in the hands of the people to spend it using something in another sector? That money's coming back to the economy. So referring to the fact that once a litre of fuel cost EUR 1.45 is a stupid demagogy. This is awfully lame! And it's a shame to use that kind of rhetoric. Three. There are a lot of Estonians watching live in this hall. The claim that all excise duties have been imposed to reduce harmful consumption is, again, demagoguery. We cannot compare excise duty on fuel, excise duty on tobacco and excise duty on alcohol, for example, with excise duty on electricity. These are very diverse, different forms of taxation, with which we need to direct the processes in society and people's consumption habits. Yes, I understand, of course, that no one has the harm of raising alcohol excises, we are all in favour of it with two hands. Really, really. You don't have to argue with us about this. But we are opposed to falsehood. We are opposed if you come here before the representatives of the people to tell us that buying fuel is harmful consumption, which must be taxed even harder. You are the person who should set an example for the Estonian people and be a true patriot who behaves and consumes and drives exemplaryly. And last. I know next time you'll talk with exactly the same rhetoric and nothing will change. But sometimes when you go to bed tonight, you think again about what happened that day and decide to change your rhetoric, your way of speaking, and your demagoguery. That may be the purpose of today. Thank you and good luck with your work.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U54	If the Prime Minister does not want the floor, I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U55	The next question is submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Henn Põlluaas, Mart Helme, Martin Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild. On behalf of the heirs, Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U56	Dear Chairman, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The inquiry concerns the reception of refugees in Estonia. Before I go to that, I would like to say that the pace of answering questions is not absolutely reasonable or acceptable. Today we hear answers to three months of old questions. In the meantime, many situations have changed, and therefore, as I said, it is absolutely unreasonable. The issue of refugees, however, is still on the agenda and is becoming increasingly acute. So I'm gonna come back to that three-month-old question. The government has assured both the public and the Riigikogu that Estonia does not agree with the refugee quotas that the European Commission has provided for us, and that 1064 people have been told and that the reception of refugees can only take place on a voluntary basis. At the same time, it became clear that the Ministry of the Interior had organised an international public procurement for training of 2050 immigrants by the end of 2017. The amount concerned was EUR 1400000 and, as agreed, the number of trainees could be increased by 500. So let's talk about a total of 2550 immigrants. At the joint session of the Riigikogu committees held on 11 June and the next day at the meeting of ELAK, where the proposal of the European Commission was discussed, neither the Minister of the Interior nor any other minister mentioned, nor the Prime Minister later mentioned this training procurement and contract. However, it was repeatedly confirmed that Estonia's capacity to deal with refugees is low and we do not agree with quotas under any circumstances. Today we know that the government has actually agreed with them. This same permanent distribution scheme based on our GDP and population is nothing more than a quota. In this regard, we ask you to answer the following questions: 'Does the government intend to 'voluntarily' bring 2550 immigrants to Estonia by 2017, which is more than twice as many as the European Commission has issued? For what reason is such a number used? If the number of eligible immigrants has been decided by the government, why has the government misled and deceived both the public and the Riigikogu, talking about fifteen to twenty times the smaller number? Why is an impact analysis commissioned by the government, highlighting its negative consequences for all areas of life, classified and declared for internal use? It is clear that all aspects of immigration must be informed to the public, not to provide biased and distorted information about the positive aspects of immigration. ' Last question: 'Does the Government intend to submit a request for resignation in connection with the above-mentioned public and the misleading and deception of the Riigikogu? ' Of course, we all know this answer, but it is worth recalling that over 80% of Estonia's people oppose the quota distribution of mass immigration and emigrants in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U57	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to the question of 15 June about the reception of refugees. The first question: 'Does the government intend to 'voluntarily' bring 2550 immigrants to Estonia by 2017, contrary to its assurances and mandate, which is more than twice as many as the European Commission has issued? For what reasons is such a number used? 'The second question: 'If the number of eligible immigrants has been decided by the government, why has the government misled and deceived both the public and the Riigikogu, talking about fifteen to twenty times the smaller number? ' I will answer these two questions at once. I don't understand the source of your number. We are now, which is indeed several months later than this questioning time, and we have agreed to accept about five times the number of people in need of international protection that you have mentioned. And on the note that it has not been possible to answer the question earlier, I say that I think you will agree that there is no matter behind me. This inquiry has been submitted a week before Midsummer Day. Most of the time in the summer, I was quite there on Toompea, but it is not possible to answer oral questions outside the time of the sittings. So I'll answer as soon as I can. As you are well aware, there have been a number of questions to be answered by both me and other ministers during all the working weeks. I am also saying that no one should have any doubt that there is currently a very serious crisis in Europe. Together with other European countries, we need to deal with this crisis, including the rescue of people in distress. Of course, in parallel, we must also address the root causes of the crisis, either eliminated or at least mitigated, because this is the most appropriate way of resolving the crisis. The refugees will come to Estonia when we are ready. We have an action plan drawn up in cooperation with different ministries, one part of which was presented to the government at the Cabinet meeting last week and which is still being supplemented. The meeting of the Government on 10 September approved Estonia's position that we are prepared to accept war refugees in a crisis situation, given the state's capacity, the proportion of our population and economy in the European Union and the readiness of war refugees to relocate to Estonia. Indeed, we prefer voluntary assistance between European countries. Question three. 'Why is the impact analysis of immigration ordered by the government, highlighting its negative consequences for all areas of life, classified and declared for internal use only? It is clear that all aspects of immigration must be informed to the public, not to provide biased and distorted information about the positive aspects of immigration. ' The government has ensured that the public is kept informed and informed throughout the process. In cooperation with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Ministry of Social Affairs, Ministry of Education and Research, the information on war refugees has been gathered on the website www.governance.ee/refugees, where information is available on the schedule of activities, Estonian views, frequently asked questions and countries of origin. Minister for Social Protection Margus Tsahkna, Minister for the Interior Hanno Pevkur and other officials have met local government representatives to explain and answer questions to communities about the activities of war refugees. In addition, our daily media communication includes disprovement of misinformation, responses to journalists' inquiries, interviews and opinion stories, as well as communication meetings and round tables with local authorities and social partners. Question 4: "Does the Government intend to submit a request for resignation in connection with the misleading and defrauding of the public and the Riigikogu mentioned above? " The answer is no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U59	Now the questions. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U60	Prime Minister! Everything is very, very nice and beautiful and we all want to help people. I'm not gonna ask you for a long time, because there's not gonna be a very thorough answer here. I'm gonna ask you something else. In 1934, the State Elder of the Republic of Estonia, Konstantin Päts, called the Estonian people sick and must be treated. Today, 80% of the Estonian population are opposed to such an immigration policy. This was an official survey conducted by Delfi and Eesti Päevaleht, where 80% of respondents were not in favour of admitting immigrants or refugees or refugees, whatever we call them, to Estonia. You have received a mandate from the Estonian people; you are the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, who must guarantee the sovereignty of the Estonian state, the survival of the Estonian people and the protection of our culture. Do you consider those 80% of the Estonian population who oppose the policy that your government is implementing to be ill?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U61	Of course not, and of course I don't use that expression either. It is not my place to advise you, but I would recommend that you act as a member of the Riigikogu in the best sense of the word when you choose your expressions, both inside and outside this Chamber. The people have given you a mandate that includes a certain role in society, a certain responsibility. In this hall, it is also customary for the greatest adversaries, people whose views are diametrically different, to be respectful and to choose words when making their own assessments. I've had quite a few things in my ear about your speech on the remote. In my opinion, such personal comments at times are not appropriate for this hall. So I would ask that you at least consider the possibility in the future, even if your position is different from that of a government or a parliamentary colleague, to remain respectful and to hold a civilised debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U62	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U63	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Prime Minister! I'd say respect has to be earned. I'd make a deal with you that if you start counting on the people, we're gonna be a little bit more polite. It is your road roller tactics that have caused this irritation and not just in some groups, but in society at large. However, I have a more specific question about the number of immigrants. As we know, the government has decided to accept 500 immigrants to Estonia. I'd like to know where the authorization was obtained. I know that up to 180 people were allowed to receive only on a voluntary basis in ELAK on 11 June. Later, in September, the ELAK slipped through the protocol that preference was given to volunteering, no admission of 500 people. Where have you received this mandate? Because if you do not have this mandate, you will undermine the legitimacy of your government, especially given how reluctant this policy is for the Estonian public.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U64	As far as I know, two members of your group are members of the Committee on European Union Affairs. They will also be able to deliver the minutes of the various sittings to you, and you will be sure, when you look at them, that the Government of the Republic has asked for a mandate to apply for it so that a voluntary agreement can be reached in the resolution of the crisis in Europe, including the redistribution of war refugees between countries. In this we want to draw on a proportionate distribution so that each country contributes according to its size, its share in the European Union as a whole. Both the first agreement, which was concluded between the interior ministers and which did not reach the ultimate goal of was badly lacking, and the second proposal presented by the Commission to the interior ministers, has been in line with this principle. The size of countries has been taken into account, the proportion of countries in the European Union as a whole, and so this solution has been much more in line with Estonian views than the initial distribution formula proposed by Jean-Claude Juncker. Estonia's views have also been taken into account in the same way in Europe on this issue, which we discussed in the previous EUAK session, where I had the opportunity to participate. At today's meeting, we discussed that the European Union should provide much more financial support for countries that are in the Syrian neighbourhood and are ready to receive and deal with refugees, so that people do not have to travel very far from their home country, so that they can take refuge in nearby countries, so that their children can be educated. At the last Council meeting, which was extraordinary, the European Union decided by consensus to allocate an additional EUR 1 billion to help refugees and reduce migratory pressures in Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey. It can be said that Estonia's views have been taken into account and that the policy that is currently being pursued, as well as the many other activities to mitigate the causes of the migration crisis, have been well aligned with Estonia's views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U65	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U66	President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! It is certainly no secret or news to you that our party has initiated the dissemination of mass petition in Estonia. The 530000 petitions sent and distributed in mailboxes should give feedback and a very clearly fixed public opinion on the policy you are driving on immigrants. You're still talking, like in June, about refugees. We all know that it is not predominantly refugees, but mostly just immigrants, most of whom are seeking a more comfortable and better life. My question, however, is this: why do you not serve the Estonian people, why do you serve the European Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U67	I expect this issue to be rhetorical, because everyone in this Chamber understands that as Prime Minister, my role is precisely to serve the Estonian people, not anyone else. As for the 530000 letters you sent out, one of which came to my home, I will not judge it. Let this letter be on your conscience, but you can see the feedback. If your claim and your colleagues that the majority of the Estonian people will support you on this matter is correct, you should receive at least 265001 notes back according to my calculations. If the number of withdrawals is lower than this, then you should probably reconsider the references to yourself as a monopoly on public account to some extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U68	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U69	President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! I am pleased that you are on the floor today on this issue, although the audience is not numerous. Through the press, I have the impression that in most European countries, the prime minister of the country who spoke out on the issue of the refugee crisis is quite emphatically. We, it seems to me, answer journalists' questions and give explanations, for example, to the Vice Chancellors. Do you feel the responsibility of yourself as Prime Minister in this matter to be the spokesperson who must explain to the people in an understandable way and to reassure people and perhaps also to take responsibility if something goes wrong? Do you sense that this responsibility cannot, as if, be sub-delegated?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U70	Thank you. When it comes to all the technical details, a good public official, whether from the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Education and Research, can also be a very good spokesperson. These people deal with the subject daily, and they are likely to be able to describe their work well to the people. However, as far as the state's positions, values, principles are concerned, I absolutely agree that the members of the government, at the head of the Prime Minister, must speak up on this issue and the Members of Parliament must speak up in the same way. Sometimes it seems to me that there have been weeks, if not months, when I've only talked about these matters. I have given interviews on this subject to most of the major press publications that have asked, and I have some more interviews planned. I do not know whether they are still asking about refugees today, but I have generally been very open to taking part in this too. I really think that it is appropriate for Estonia to behave with dignity in this matter and to contribute as much as it is within our power, without being euphorically over-emphasised. We must not overestimate our abilities, but we should deal with it, and that is what we are doing in order to develop these abilities, so that indeed the few hundred people who come to Estonia for war in a few years, without major problems, can integrate into society. Perhaps it is interesting to know that in 2013 just over 2,000 people came to Estonia from outside the European Union and in 2014 nearly 2,000 people in the exact order of 1800 people from outside the European Union. Future refugees may make up 15 to 20% of their annual arrival in Estonia. And the number of citizens of the European Union that come to us does not reflect at all, if taken into account, that number will at least double. So of all foreigners who come to live in Estonia a year, these refugees make up less than 10%. Why don't you tell me if it's something that's gonna break society? I don't think so. I think we need to deal with this in a nice and dignified manner and show that Estonia is a country belonging to the European family. And if there is a need to help other European countries, we can do our part well too.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U71	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! My question concerns those people who are going to choose the people who are coming to us. For example, do we consider what kind of workforce we need? I'm asking because I got upset by the chief doctor at the Ida-Viru Central Hospital, who asked why our party was against refugees. They do not get doctors from Estonia, perhaps there are refugees looking for people who are about to start working in the necessary positions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U73	Thank you. We in the government have decided that, first of all, we want to help vulnerable target groups. Vulnerable target groups certainly include families with children, and women with children are the most difficult to cope with on their own. Helping them first, I think you'll agree, is human. But we may also be able to consider the need for those who come to Estonia to actually find a job here quickly. I have met a lot of entrepreneurs in recent months and I have received feedback from very many Estonian entrepreneurs. They have said that they have jobs for people with very different qualifications. Statistics also confirm this: there are currently about 8500 job vacancies in the Estonian economy, where people are sought with matchfire. This shows that it is very likely that those people who come to Estonia as a refugee in war will be able to earn their own living for themselves and their families and will not live on social benefits at the expense of the Estonian state. It will certainly be very active for supporters to be able to go to work as soon as possible after the initial procedures for integration into society have been completed. A number of companies have said that they are also ready to employ people who do not speak Estonian, and there are many companies with these jobs and who do not have any professional qualifications. Of course, it is much more complicated with the doctors you have referred to. In the case of doctors coming from third countries, we have very clear procedures in place for them to take up work in the European Union. It's not really automatic. So far, doctors from the East have come to the Ida-Viru Central Hospital, and they have also passed the appropriate procedures for their invitation to be recognised in the European Union. So they have been able to get to work. I believe that, in future, we could have the opportunity to look with open eyes more towards either Ukraine or why not Russia or Belarus. If there is really a very serious shortage of doctors in specific areas, I do not see any tragedy when we find doctors in Ukraine or Belarus or Russia, whose professional qualifications meet the requirements of Estonia and who are ready to start working in, for example, Ida-Viru Central Hospital or Narva Hospital. But this, as I said, is not as easy as a procedure. It will certainly take time to recognise professional qualifications and, in general, I would not put the prospect of quickly finding doctors among refugees to work. But I don't know. I have met people with very different work and educational backgrounds at Vao Centre, including IT-magistrants. So they are certainly not all people who are only fit for easy work, including very highly qualified people.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U74	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U75	Mr. President! If we monitor the evolution of the situation, 150 refugees were first allowed to be accepted, and now this figure has become 500. Looking at how things have developed in southern Europe, at first these refugees were in Italy and Greece, now they have reached Germany. Something terrible is happening on the Finnish border, attacked across the border. That's my question. Has the government given any thought to declaring a crisis situation, considering the resources to put a stop to if all of this were to go up? I'm sure it's going up. Is the government prepared to declare a state of emergency?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U76	As you well know, I answered this issue about a few weeks ago when your group asked me a question. Or was it in Question Time, in any case, a few weeks ago, I answered on the subject. In short, the answer was that the emergency situation is something that is not announced just in case. But the state must always be prepared. I was also talking about how much it costs to close the border temporarily. There's no need for that today. By temporarily closing the border, we would significantly worsen the opportunities for tourists to come here, as would the Estonian people to travel to other countries. So this is not a current issue and there are no large numbers of people who would decide to enter the European Union via Estonia. If we look at the globe or the map for a moment, we understand very well why. Estonia is on the other side of Europe; the root causes of the migration crisis are still south of Europe. There's a very clear logic. But as far as these numbers are concerned, I say once again that, if you take the average figure for the last four years, a few thousand people came to live in Estonia every year from outside the European Union. A few thousand, not a few hundred and not a few dozen! In addition, the number of people who came from the European Union, including Finland, Germany, Great Britain, is about twice as high. Within this whole range, the number of refugees measured in hundreds is something that I believe we have still very much overdramaticised in society as a whole. It's not that much to turn something upside down in our society. I dare predict that if you have not been in contact with any refugees in your life so far, you will hardly be in contact with them in the future. The proportion of 500 people or several hundred people in the Estonian population is still very small.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U77	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! A few minutes ago, you said from this remote control that those people who come to Estonia from outside the European Union are 10 to 15% economic refugees. In this context, I have a question about the good people who have migrated from Estonia during the period of independence. There are over 100,000 of them. Yeah, some of them might come back, but a lot of them will. The balance sheet is still negative for over 100,000 people. Do you have any information on how many of them are economics? We can't have war refugees, as we know, there is no war. Or, at all, what category would you classify those people who have left Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U79	Good questioner! I don't generally classify people into categories, but I'm still trying to answer your question. If we look at both immigration and emigration, we can see that in recent years this trend has clearly decreased, that it is only for economic reasons, especially because there is no job in Estonia. This is also because wages have increased and unemployment has decreased in Estonia. And clearly, there has been an increase in the proportion of people who move to another country in order to make a career or start studying or something like that. Such'mandatory' emigration, if you could say so, has been considerably reduced. This can only be true if you include, for example, the workers of the Soviet armed forces and those close to them who left in the first half of the 1990s. I would not classify it as emigration from Estonia today. When we talk about whether people are going to look for a better life or want to see the world, the figures show that 700 more people went abroad from Estonia in 2014 than they came to live in Estonia. So essentially you could say that these numbers aren't exactly balanced, but they're close to balance. True, at a time of economic crisis, this balance was a little further away. The worst years were 2011 and 2012 when the difference was double: a few thousand people a year migrated more from Estonia than came to live in Estonia. But in 2014, the balance of migration was 700 people negative, and it is quite similar to the situation in developed European countries and much more balanced than in other Baltic countries, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U80	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U81	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! There is a myth that a war refugee who arrives here can also invite relatives with him. My question is: if a refugee can really invite some of his loved ones here, who are they exactly who he can invite here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U82	That is a very correct and good question. It still concerns the immediate family circle, not the whole family. At the same time, it is true that most people who ask for refugee status in Europe do so not in Estonia, but in another European country. To think that, now that we have agreed that all European countries will contribute to this solution, in addition to those who are redistributing under the agreement, refugees will apply for family-by-family return to Estonia, I do not think there is any basis. That's not very likely. We should not think that Estonia is a very attractive country to war refugees, as sad as it may be. This opposition, which is demonstrated by the dispersal of certain letters and by the organisation of torch tours, is noticed by people, and it is not only a deterrent to war refugees, but also a drive away from Estonia by tourists, entrepreneurs who are from another country, and simply by people who consider such a foreign rage inappropriate. I have spoken to people from very exotic countries in my circle of acquaintances who work and earn a very good salary here in Estonia, contribute very much to Estonian society and are very well integrated. Unfortunately, they say that all this anti-refugeesism, which some political forces have cultivated with momentum, has started to affect their attitude to the possibility of living in Estonia in the future. It makes me very sad. In my opinion, Estonia should not be an exclusionary state. Estonia should be open, Estonia should be tolerant and look for ways to represent European values, not to confront them at every opportunity. But yes, the direct answer to your question is that it concerns the immediate family circle. As I said before, we are primarily trying to help those people who have already arrived in Italy, for example, with the whole family. From there, you could bring the whole family to Estonia at once. That would be humane and also reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U83	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U84	Thank you. Prime Minister! If you ask who is still a refugee and a refugee, I think it is the person who saves his family, his loved ones and himself, and so it lands in the first neighbouring country. If he doesn't like it there and wants to move on to Germany, France or Italy, for example, then he seems to be already an economic refugee, not a war refugee. In that case, they're looking for a better life. How do you define who the refugee is? Who are those who are going to Germany, France, Italy, Great Britain and elsewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U85	Consider the example of Syria. No one doubts that there is a war in Syria right now. And in Syria, the war is also escalating in our neighbouring country, which has begun to attack not the pillars of the Islamic state with its planes, but the pillars of the Syrian opposition. Of course, this escalation of war also means additional pressure from refugees. Let us see what are the neighbouring countries of Syria where people can escape the war. These are Turkey and Lebanon, and Jordan is also close. These are the first countries to go to. Let's take these countries one by one. I would like to give you the most marked example of Lebanon, which is right next to Syria, and where a million and a half people have gone in three years. In speaking with the Lebanese Prime Minister and the President of the Parliament, I came to believe that many of those people who have come to Lebanon from the one-and-a-half million of them do not really want to move forward. And, by the way, in Lebanon, even though the population of this country is only 4.5 million, it is also very open to one and a half million refugees from war. But this, of course, means very serious challenges for the state in financial terms, in terms of infrastructure, in terms of the most basic consumer. This is also the reason why I, along with many other heads of government in Europe, represented this position at the Council meeting, that we need to give more support to refugees in Lebanon, Turkey, Jordan and other neighbouring countries of Syria with European Union money. Basically, they find their first port of refuge there, but this port of security is not endless, and if there are still 300,000 children in Lebanon alone without education, I would not call those parents who want a normal life for their children who want to eat for themselves and for their families and shelter, necessarily economic refugees. It is simply a question of whether we can help to increase Lebanon's absorption capacity.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U86	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In the context of the migration crisis and the severe pressure on the southern and south-eastern borders of the European Union, the idea of creating a single border guard for the European Union has become an issue. So far, before the current migration crisis, this was not considered necessary and Estonia had to manage its external borders, which are also the external borders of the European Union and NATO. What do you think about the idea of creating a single border guard for the European Union, and what could this bring to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U88	Thank you. That's a very good question. Today we also discussed this issue in the Committee on European Union Affairs. We agreed that Estonia should be open to this idea. So far, this idea has not been worked out in detail, so that we should not have to, if you ask for my personal position, to go straight ahead and either accept it or reject it. But the idea could have a complexion under certain conditions. This could also be Estonia's interest in even greater rotation or cooperation of border guards than we have so far. As you rightly said, Estonia is also a country of the European Union's external borders. Our eastern border is also the eastern border of Schengen, and this idea may have a complexion. There is still considerable cooperation between border guards in the framework of the various missions. We in the southern countries of the European Union have contributed to a total of 85 people who, of course, have not all been on the mission at once. However, 85 Estonian border guards have already guarded the southern border of the European Union and why not, under certain conditions in the future, there are some people on our border, for example, in German or Italian form. Basically, it could be open to this idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U89	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U90	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! Two or three years ago, sitting in this Chamber, I did not think that we were going to discuss the issue of refugees. I have a question for you: who is responsible for spending so much time and energy on this subject today?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U91	Classic question! Thank you for that. Who's to blame? I do not know whether I should now point the finger at the dictators of the Middle East or at the Islamic State as a phenomenon. It is clear that the primary fault is for those responsible for the crises and for those leaders whose actions have made some countries not very far from Europe unsafe for their inhabitants. It's fair to say they're responsible. This crisis is really very deep and, since it is the biggest migration crisis since World War II, Europe has put enormous amounts of energy, power, money, time and political capital into solving it. I think that no head of government in the European Union will be more popular in dealing with this issue. Crisis doesn't bring popularity. But every head of government has a responsibility to deal with the crises that life brings. I dare say that all my colleagues have taken this issue extremely seriously. In some of the nuances, we have our differences, but there's a pretty big common ground. Everyone has realised that we need to resolve this crisis together. I don't see any culprits among my colleagues. These culprits are certainly outside the European Union. These are the people who have brought about these wars and conflicts, and who are constantly running into them again.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U92	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U93	Thank you, manager. Good Prime Minister! Ants Laaneots, Member of the National Defence Commission, has claimed that thousands of terrorists have also come to Europe in the shadow of this refugee flow. The Finnish security reports have also indicated that this is indeed the case. Even in Finland, they have been fixed. What is Estonia's ability and knowledge of this threat?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U94	That's a real question! Not only in the context of this migration crisis, but also in a perfectly legal way, through airports, with a nice visa and by showing documents, terrorists have come to the European Union. And what to deny there are also terrorists who are born in some European countries. We'll take a terrorist act that shocked the whole world not far from us in Norway. Of course, terrorism is one of the threats in today's world that must be dealt with very seriously. The Estonian authorities must also contribute more and more to this risk for us. I cannot tell you all the details that the Estonian authorities are doing. This can be said, for example, in the National Defence Committee or in the Riigikogu committees, where the debate can be classified. But you will probably believe when I say that these topics will be dealt with and that, if specific persons are admitted to Estonia, whether by issuing a visa or by granting a residence permit, a fairly thorough background check will be carried out. I think that all European countries are doing their best to find out the past of people entering the country. But history has shown that terrorists can also, unfortunately, be noticed not only from third countries but also from within the European Union. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U95	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U96	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! I don't think it's easy to compare those people who come here voluntarily from the European Union and the East, and elsewhere, with those who come here as refugees. In view of possible negative developments in the Arab and Middle East countries, has the government also been discussing the extent to which Estonia has the maximum capacity to receive refugees?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U97	No, it is probably not possible or appropriate to set such a maximum figure. We can help to have more and more supporters who help people find work and integrate into society to have language teachers for people who do not speak a word of Estonian. It needs to be developed compared to the current level, where indeed hundreds of people live in Estonia on a permanent basis, but only dozens of people every year. Compared to this, the capacity in Estonia must be increased in any case. But can we tell where the limit goes or where the maximum? I think this is a very difficult task. I would rather say that, on average, this one person per day, in the order of magnitude that we have to accept in accordance with the agreements concluded over a few years, is certainly not too much for Estonia. I'm sure we can handle that. If we sense that these numbers can get bigger than the Estonian state can provide help, we will probably react accordingly. We can't help any more than we have capabilities. That is also perfectly clear. But the current numbers are those that Estonia can afford, we can handle them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U98	Thank you. No further questions, I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U99	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised by the lack of preparation of the Prime Minister before the Riigikogu and when answering questions. A very specific matter from which the government has taken the number of specific immigrants is written in our inquiry, but either the councillors or the Prime Minister probably do not want to read the questions. So I'm going to read it out, where the Conservative People's Party took the number of 2550 immigrants. According to our inquiry, the Ministry of the Interior has organised international public procurement for the training of a new immigrant in 2050 by the end of 2017, amounting to EUR 1396000, it is listed in the public procurement register and signed a corresponding contract with Expat Relocation Estonia OÜ on 9 June 2015. According to the agreement, the volume of training may be increased by an additional 500 trainees, so a total of 2550 immigrants are spoken for in the procurement process. It's a specific government plan to train immigrants arriving here. If the Prime Minister doesn't know the bill, it's very sad. However, if the ministries act behind the Prime Minister's back without control, it will be even sadder. But actually, I'm not surprised the Prime Minister doesn't know the bill. After all, we were told that absolutely no immigration will come to Estonia; Estonia will not accept any redistribution of immigrants or quotas. Today we know how this number has increased all the time; Estonia has agreed to quotas. What else is it if we accept them voluntarily, according to our population and our GDP. As the Prime Minister has just said here in the booth, no limit, no maximum. It's a quota system. Last week, representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Committee on Foreign Affairs were presenting the framework document of Estonian European Union policy. There is a chapter on the migration of peoples, migration policy. Sadly, we found that Estonia's policy on illegal immigration was only to monitor it, its registration. In the same way, illegal immigration must be monitored, registered in the European Union. As far as the admission of immigrants to Estonia is concerned, while in the previous framework document 2010 was clearly stated that Estonia does not agree with the quotas, today the sentence has disappeared. It has been replaced by a formulation that Estonia agrees with the voluntary adoption of refugees and precisely on the basis of the same permanent mechanism that I mentioned here earlier. So if 40,000 refugees were distributed yesterday, 120,000 refugees are distributed today, tomorrow perhaps 500000, the day after tomorrow 2 million and then 10 million, then Estonia does not have a cap and the Estonian government, without any powers from the Riigikogu or the Riigikogu committees, has agreed to the quotas. If it is to be honest about its consequences, it must not be done in Estonia. Instead of honest and open discussion, we see blame, one side tagging... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U100	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U101	As the Prime Minister said a moment ago, it is hate speech, it is intolerance. In fact, speaking openly about the negative aspects of immigration is anything but that. It's smart and sensible. Old people's wisdom in Estonia says, "Think first, then do it." We do not need to look far, let us look at our neighbour Finland. The Finnish Prime Minister did the same thing as Merkel did in Germany, who unleashed this huge wave from behind the dam. The Finnish Prime Minister said that he would also be willing to take refugees into his home. Today, 300-500 refugees arrive there a day, with a total of over 16,000 refugees. And if the Prime Minister does not believe that mass migration could have any negative consequences for Estonia, please see what happens here, 80 kilometres away in Finland. There has been a surge in crimes against individuals and property, including acts of violence, rape. If we look at statistics, the rapes committed by Finns are more than 13 times less than those committed by immigrants. In addition to the fact that crime has gone on the streets, mass struggles are often taking place in refugee centres in Germany and elsewhere in Europe, due to different religions. After all, refugees belong to different Islamic sects and come from different countries. All these people are united by only one thing: they are not satisfied with the country they have come to, they are not satisfied with living conditions, with food and they are demanding cash in their hands. Jaanus Karilaid asked a question. The Finnish Defence Police, or sopo, has quite clearly highlighted the growing threat of Islamist terrorism. Clear signals and clear signs of this exist, there is information, but Estonia tends to close its eyes. Maybe now it's said that look how the Pier brought out the negative aspects, the Pier is intolerant, the Pier is, I don't know who. But speaking of something that will change Estonia's future and face permanently, we must not hide our heads in the sand like an ostrich, just as our government is doing, as the European Union is doing, instead of blocking and stopping immigration, is doing on the contrary, bringing these problems to Europe. War refugees are people who have fled the war to a neighbouring country and have been given safe shelter there. And if they decide later that they will go to Europe instead, then they will no longer be refugees, then they will be economic immigrants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U102	Thank you. My colleague Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U103	President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I have to say, Question Time is very informative. This gives us a clear picture that the Prime Minister does not adequately understand very many things. I suggest, if you have not met any immigrants, go to a place to eat, not even in Tallinn alone. Go to Tartu. I've met Thais in Pärnu, for example, holding a diner. They're everywhere. Go to Kristiine Center, there's already a bunch of them. Talk to them, ask them why they're here, where they came from, what they want. You're gonna get in touch with your life. This is the same suggestion I made earlier: perhaps it would be worth finding these five minutes and walking from Stenbock's house here and having two words with some people on this square. You will also learn how people who get 300 or 400 euros a month and have to handle this money. Okay. We learned that it is awfully nice that we have doctors coming from Belarus, Ukraine or Russia. Well, somebody might come, I don't mind. I'm a well-known hate speaker, but I'm still getting along with the Russians. But my son is going to work as a doctor in Finland next month, where he will receive more pay than the Prime Minister. Why doesn't my son stay in Estonia as a doctor? Why is the government not concerned about bringing back those people who have left and who know how and want to work? There are thousands of them. We do not bring here people from Syria, Libya and Lebanon who are skilled workers. Not to mention the problem of how few Arab specialists we have in Estonia. What if the Prime Minister tells me over my shoulder? But I tell you myself: two. With their help, we are going to train, with their help we are going to become supporters, with their help we are going to integrate refugees. Excellent perspective! Prime Minister! I get it, we're at a completely different political pole. You are, I don't know, a pole north or south. It doesn't matter. Clearly, we're at different poles. You have managed to conclude a coalition agreement which will give you the opportunity to lead the government and implement the decisions taken by the coalition under the leadership of the state. We do not have this opportunity in the opposition. Consequently, in order to carry out our political will, we must use other methods. We are. We have realised in the short time that we have spent in the Riigikogu that it is very, very difficult to influence Estonia's future in opposition here and the results are very, very modest. That's why we appeal to the public. That is why we have sent out the same petition letters in which, I dare say, there is no hate speech, but there is indeed a concern about what we feel about Estonia. You have a different problem. But I think we have a right to concern ourselves. And I also think you're exaggerating when you say we should get at least 250,000 responses. As of this morning, we have received a inscription completed already over 20,000 responses on Sunday. But we've also got dozens of pay attention now! There are dozens of phone calls where people say that we support you, but we do not dare to sign this petition because we fear that we will be punished for hate speech. This is not normal in a democratic country, it is completely abnormal. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U104	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U105	It's completely abnormal! Indrek Hargla, my former colleague at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, wrote about this in Saturday's Evening Paper, which is the only page where the points of view are still balanced. All other media groups are involved in propaganda, cultural Marxist and left-liberal propaganda, and this is embarrassing. The most embarrassing thing is that if we are accused of using Kremlin's shots, Mr Jaak Madison's case, the Kremlin's shots were used by the Estonian National Broadcasting, putting pictures of concentration camps and mass graves into the news about him. Is that normal?! In the case of public broadcasting, which is the voice of all of us!? No, that's not normal. This shows that something very abnormal is happening in this country. And I'd say you, as Prime Minister, are responsible for this too. So then, Prime Minister, a serious appeal: walk on foot, just don't run all the time! Walk, talk to people and not just at party meetings! Talk to people about hunk villages with aunts, Uncle Kustide, Auntie Paints! Try to find empathy to understand: most Estonian people live in poverty! And insult the Estonian people by bringing here immigrants who are not authorised to do so, who are guaranteed health insurance and dental care, installation money, supporters, etc., are immoral. It's totally immoral! This is the service of the European Commission, not of the Estonian people. That's the point of my question I asked earlier. Now for the end. Right now, we have peace. We're not fighting. We may have a certain cultural war in Estonia, but we do not run the risk of going to Kristiine Centre and a bomb exploding in a trash can that has been planted by ISIS terrorist or other terrorist who hates us because we have Christmas and we are Christians. And we want to integrate him. Why are you importing problems to us here in Estonia? Here, in a peaceful country, where we have learned peacefully in 75 years, perhaps looking over our shoulders at each other, but still peacefully living with the people and their descendants who arrived here during the Soviet era? Why do you import our problems and possible real war? Your course is a course of war. I'll remind you if that turns out to be true. I hope I'm not a prophet.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U106	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U107	Mr. Speaker! Mr. Prime Minister! Since we can only ask one question to the answer and there were many questions and the answers were long, I am now taking this opportunity to straighten out some of the hard-working statements that have come out. The Prime Minister expressed his opinion that 100,000 people who have left Estonia have certainly not left here during the so-called new republic, but there are also many people of Soviet times. Unfortunately, that is not true. According to the calculations of our own electoral commission, 70000 citizens of the Republic of Estonia are abroad and will vote abroad. Our tax office will provide the same data. These are adult citizens who have also brought children, so that this order of magnitude is 900,000 or 100,000 something in the area. These are not Soviet military pensioners. It was repeatedly pointed out that what this few hundred people are not away from, thousands of people come in each year from both the CIS and other parts of the European Union. It's no consolation. It's part of the problem. If we are concerned that the Estonian people will remain in a minority in their own country and will die out in the long run, then it is a few thousand that are part of the problem. This few thousand won't go away. As the current immigration policy or migration policy continues, this amount will not go away; they will simply be accompanied by a new group that is culturally completely alien to us and who is completely alien to this current piece of immigration. So it gives us very little comfort that we have thousands of people coming here from Ukraine, Belarus or Russia, or from France, the Netherlands or Denmark. This is all part of the undermining of the right of the Estonian people to host. There is a very important question, which has already been asked several times here, that if we focus on how to be as nice as possible to those people who come from any arc of the world to us, what will the government do specifically to bring back the 70,000 Estonian citizens who have gone to Finland, Sweden, England, America, Australia. These are our people! These are the people we do not need to integrate, to whom we do not need to hire a support person who does not need to hire interpreters and other assistants. They would naturally belong to Estonian society and they would immediately have to give to our country. Every person trained in Estonia, whether with regular education or higher education, is an important resource of Estonian society, as well as an economic and financial resource. We have massively supported the economies of other countries in the form of our own people who have gone there, and that is what the Estonian economy has lost. What is being done to bring these people back to Estonia? There's no plan. There is talk of a one-percent reduction in social tax. I'm kidding! On a question or a question from the Prime Minister, we have repeatedly heard such a phrase that 'it is my opinion that it is either that or that, in my opinion, it is not likely'. Now, we have a very big problem in the opposition. In our opinion, the Prime Minister's assessments are all in the woods. We do not share these estimates, we do not see an adequate data set behind these estimates, we do not see empirical proof of these estimates, that this is what has happened elsewhere, even if we take the integration of immigrants. No European country has succeeded in integrating Muslims. It has not succeeded in any European country, but we in Estonia are expected to succeed. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U108	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U109	One little mid-term note. European values are a blob that often punches us in the face. European values are like this, like this. Of course, this is part of a political debate that is or is not European. But a small point of thought: Every week in Germany, a centre of immigrants or refugees is set on fire. Every month, a refugee or immigrant centre is set on fire in Sweden. We also had a centre lit in Estonia. Does that make us more or less European? Is this also a European value? I think that not all the things that exist in Europe should be copied, including arson. But that also applies to other things. At the end, there was a good question about who was guilty. There are, of course, many guilty people. I'll count three. Firstly, Germany and Angela Merkel are responsible for encouraging people to arrive in Europe because there is no cap, everyone is welcome and we have open doors. If Germany does not really have enough people, if the government is already requisitioning private apartments and evicting Germans from social spaces, then the Germans will have a brilliant idea of putting the problem on the shoulders of other European countries and peoples and calling it solidarity. This is not solidarity. It is selfishness that is so characteristic of the Germans. The European Commission is responsible for using every crisis in Europe to increase its power. Immigration is a matter for the Commission, hijacked by the Member States. This is a total power grab; there is no basis for this in the Treaties. This is a power grab, and the Estonian Government should have resisted it with the same courage as Hungary, Poland, Slovakia and many other countries. Of course, it is also the Estonian government that has no backbone to defend the interests of the Estonian state and people with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U110	Thank you. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U111	Honourable Deputy Speaker! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, This debate has been very lively and passionate, and the air is sparkly with electricity. I'd rather start with a little commendation. If the Prime Minister felt that I had offended him on a personal level and discredited him, then I must say that I have no doubt that you are certainly a very good family man. You're a good father, and as a man, I'm sure you have a heart in the right place. I don't doubt it. But if I'm asked to respect the Prime Minister's politics and his government, that's too much for me. I cannot respect the Government and the Head of Government, who will change their positions according to the wind and in accordance with the European Commission's order. I do not recall that during the election campaign in January and February, the Reform Party or the current leader of the Reform Party has spoken of the immigration crisis that is threatening us, even though this warning signal was given to the Estonian government institutions, Estonian ministries two years ago. The Syrian conflict escalated in 2012. It was a time bomb, and it was only a matter of time before it would explode. You were aware of that, but they didn't talk about it. You didn't talk about tax increases, you didn't talk about heavy increases in fuel excise. You did not talk about putting Estonia's accommodations in a very difficult situation. And I cannot respect such a government, otherwise I would go against my conscience. You tried to reprimand me and correct me because of my rhetoric and my way of speaking. At this point, I should remind you that the only person who has the right to make an assessment of my manner of expression is the Estonian elector in 2019. He appreciates our work in this hall and our actions and our sentiments. I don't know that I would have told you in person anything bad or looked at you at a personal level. I haven't done it. Now to the immigration crisis. I am very seriously disturbed and when we look at opinion polls, it disturbs most people in Estonia most of the rhetoric that we are conducting at government level. None of us doubt the need to help people. We must help real war refugees from Syria who have fled to Jordan and Libya, who live in refugee camps and need humanitarian aid, food, drink, education. We must help them according to our capabilities, not according to how the European Commission tells us in advance, based on a distribution key, i.e. a quota. We must look to our own interests, not to what Mrs Merkel says. I myself visited Jordan in the composition of the Estonian delegation, as Mr Rõivas knows. We saw those people there. We quickly calculated on the ground that it is about ten times more advantageous to help people where we do not have to explain to them how to integrate into Europe. We don't have to do language courses for them, hire supporters, train Arabic students. All this expense would go away if we were really helping people who need help. We should not explain to them that during Christmas in Estonia, pork and sauerkraut are eaten. We don't have to deal with all this. Let's make sure this problem doesn't exist and help people ten times cheaper where they need to be. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! I had no intention of speaking today, but having listened to the last of the speeches, I just have to do it. It was a little embarrassing for the Prime Minister's sacking, as they say in rural languages. I stress, I wasn't going to step up like this, but if you look at the picture a little bit more comprehensive, we could actually talk about it here. If you look at the statistics that exist both in Brussels and in the Netherlands, for example, the number of refugees in Germany is only 2, Norway and Sweden for 10,000 souls in 10, Austria and the Netherlands, if I remember correctly, about 5. We, Estonia, are in absolute last place among 28 countries. So whoever's sitting in the Prime Minister's chair right now doesn't want to be like him. Mr Madison, or it was Mr Helme who accused the German Chancellor Merkel here. If you are a bit familiar with the events in Germany, where the refugee problem has been for decades, I cannot agree with that. In fact, the Germans have already realized that the water is already fed up, figuratively speaking, the control is getting out of hand. It is already discussing how to manage financially in the first place, so that perhaps there should be some kind of new tax on the European Union. In fact, we should discuss very seriously the damage in this hall, too, that the hall is so empty that we should do. Clearly, we have to do something. German entrepreneurs believe that younger blood is needed in an ageing society. Similar views have been expressed by Estonian entrepreneurs, in contrast to the people who seem to think differently because of their preservation instinct. So there is such a conflict both in Germany and in us. I'm not going to dissect all these emotional stories about posters in Africa, where it's like they're calling Finland, because there's a peaceful way to rape women, arson and all that. The question is extremely serious. It's scary how scary it's gonna be. We need to talk about this, we need to know what it is, we need to know the experience of German or Swedish refugees, and we need to take wise decisions on this basis. The easiest thing to do is scare and beat the drum so they come right away, they eat the earth, they burn the houses and they rape our women. It's the easiest way. But once again, I wouldn't want to be like any prime minister right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U113	Thank you. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U114	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to this debate today, it seems to me that the greatest threat is not war refugees, but populism, the sowing of fear and uncertainty. I was quite sad to see this today on a number of speakers. My call and my proposal to several speakers today is precisely to stop sowing such fear and uncertainty. The role of a Member must be, among other things, to propose solutions, not to encourage unnecessary tensions. I propose that we really think along and contribute to making sure that people fleeing the war live and adapt to the societies they reach are as smooth and as smooth as possible. I am not one of those who think that the current crisis will not lead to tensions. Certainly it will, and certainly it would be better not have this crisis, but it is, and it is our job to find the best solution possible. So, of course, there are tensions and there are more, but it is very important to maintain humanity when looking for solutions to them. That is what I call my colleagues in this Chamber. I mean, you know, you know, we've all seen it before, but we'd be happy to be witnesses for you to be able to come up with solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U115	Thank you. Martin Helme, you have already exercised your right to speak. Would you like to say a recliner because your name was mentioned here earlier? A microphone for Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U116	We have a solution, we've talked about it many times. A few years ago, all European countries were able to guard their borders. Europe must guard its borders, countries must fulfil the obligation laid down in the Schengen Agreement. The fact that we've all gotten our hands up and say they're not coming anyway is not acceptable. The solution is to preserve the sovereignty of states in controlling their territory and to decide who we allow and who are not allowed to land. And the solution is to listen to your people. You are talking about scaring us, but I am sorry, not just me and the other members of our group, but a very large part of the Estonian people are terrified. This fear must be dealt with, not to tell us a fairy tale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U117	Thank you. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U118	Ladies and gentlemen, I am somewhat concerned that both the Prime Minister and some coalition politicians have begun to teach the opposition how to talk and what to talk about. It's a bit of a silent era. These populist speeches, as you call them, would not be possible if the people did not understand them. If 75% of society is still scared and people do not know what will happen, then it is also the task of the government union to talk about these problems in a statesmanly manner. There have been three very clear arguments. We have low wages and one fear in society is that if they bring war refugees from Syria, they will take these jobs away. It is, unfortunately, quite common to pay a salary of 500 to 600 euros somewhere in Läänemaa, Valgamaa, Võrumaa. Refugees compete for these jobs. People have the fear of losing this job, too. It's not the job of Stenbock's house to say not to ask. Your job is to tell us where the solution is. Today you are in power. If the opposition insists that we have two Arabists, two people who speak Arabic through and through, it is not your job to say that there are so few. Your job is to tell us how to get more of them. When we're talking about a terrorist threat, it's not up to you to say not to talk about it. It's up to you to talk about our ability, the filters that minimize the threat. The task of the government union is to explain and mitigate fears, but you cannot shut the opposition up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U119	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U120	Thank you. There's no more calls. We're done negotiating. Does the Prime Minister have a wish to speak? No, it's not. We have passed the second item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U121	I have not seen any regulation, no law or any other document that would delimit European values. What is European value? Hungary, Slovakia, Romania and the Czech Republic said 'no' to the current European Commission programme at the extraordinary Council of Ministers of the Interior and Justice. Are they out of the European Union now? Is somebody throwing them out? Do they not bear European values because they represent the interests of their own people and do not want to be subjected to pressure from the European Commission? They are the true bearers of European values. When we talk about the mandate of Estonian ministers to resolve this issue in the European Union, at the beginning of June there was a very free mandate given to both you and Mr Pevkur. The number of persons admitted to Estonia was between 150 and 180 in two years. We finally agreed. We said yes, it is enough to resolve the current crisis, and that we can sometimes deal with that. However, when this number became almost three times larger without any mandate, in the rounds you received at the beginning of September, it was clearly stated that we would prefer to receive each other's assistance on a voluntary basis, and if this matter went to the vote a week later, Estonia voted in favour of the current scheme, i.e. it voted in favour of the current quotas. We can call the distribution key how any of this is a quota. So this rhetoric is not respectable and I cannot respect it. Quickly for your line where you mentioned torch trains. It made me listen very extra. Your answer turned out you didn't visit it. Next time, you're welcome. Warmly awaited! This will take place on February 24th, and it will probably start at 6:00 on Freedom Square. The event has already taken place twice, and in a very friendly, pleasant atmosphere where Russian patriots have also participated, who respect the Estonian nation and culture. I would like to remind you that the tenth torch tour will be held there for the next month, on 18 November, on the Independence Day of Latvia. Last year, 14,000 people participated, and no one blamed them for trampling under the feet of European values. By the way, in Latvia, it is organized by a national alliance in the coalition. So before you start throwing words at torches here, you might want to look at the facts. And most importantly, no one needs to be able to command Estonians or the Estonian state, what we can organise in our own country, how we need to talk, how we can think and what we can do. In this country, the Estonian does what the Estonian wants, and does not listen to the teachings of Brussels, the European Commission or the German chancellor how we must behave. Please remember this!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U122	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U123	Let's move on to the third item. This inquiry has also been submitted to the Prime Minister. Members of the Riigikogu are Andres Herkel, Külliki Kübarsepp, Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõm, Ain Lutsepp, Krista Aru and Artur Talvik, and the topic is Estonia's foreign policy challenges. Andres Herkel, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U124	Mr President! Prime Minister! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Seven members of the Free Party Group submitted an inquiry on 16 July, the exact same day as the new Minister of Foreign Affairs, Marina Kaljurand, took an oath before the Riigikogu and took office. The transmission of this inquiry to the Prime Minister is first of all linked to the fact that very complex external problems and foreign policy problems are increasingly becoming part of our internal policy. The recent discussion also confirmed this very clearly. The Estonian state and society are increasingly facing difficult international problems, whether it is the refugee crisis, the Greek debt crisis or some other thing that excites society, which is straining society, which, in a sense, radicalizes society and gives rise to extreme views, including extreme speeches. But we do not have to be so concerned that they begin to reach Parliament, but because of what people think. And the government has not always done very well to explain these problems to the people. The second reason why we have directed an inquiry into foreign policy to the Prime Minister is that, while Taavi Rõivas is prime minister, the third Minister of Foreign Affairs is already in office. We really hope that this last choice is a good one. And we also think it is a good thing that the current Foreign Minister has not been reformed. On the other hand, when you think of one previous Foreign Minister, his statements sometimes make it a shame to communicate with foreign politicians; they are not within the framework of the best political correctness. That's what we found to be the right way to send these questions to the Prime Minister. As has been said, the questions have been formulated correctly several months ago. Let us begin with the situation in Ukraine, Russia's aggression against Ukraine. Here, the key question is probably the reaction of the Western countries. The fact that the issue of Ukraine does not fall off the agenda and the fact that Estonia has sufficient determination and authority to speak to ensure that the sanctions that have been applied do not begin to be relaxed, as some naive European politicians have occasionally come to mind. The refugee problem was already mentioned above. I ask the Prime Minister not only to answer the question, perhaps a little outdatedly formulated. The situation has indeed escalated and not all issues, such as the return mechanism, were very much discussed in the previous inquiry. Greek questions, Estonia's readiness to hold the Presidency of the European Union. I think it is very important here to start a discussion on what understanding, topics and objectives Estonia is preparing for its presidency. The future of the Estonian External Action Service is also interested, its readiness to assist our entrepreneurs, to expand economic cooperation, to stimulate Estonia's competitiveness. The last question is the continuation of the Eastern Partnership for Europe, in a situation where the situation of these countries in the neighbourhood of Russia is becoming increasingly difficult. Moldova, Ukraine and Georgia are known to be the main destination countries for development aid and cooperation in Estonia. We want to know how we will continue this cooperation and, in particular, in what areas and with how much resources we intend to help Ukraine build society on democratic foundations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U125	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs and other members of the Riigikogu! First of all, thank you for these extremely thorough and very necessary questions. If I wanted to answer every detail you've asked, we'd probably be here until morning, but I'm really trying to hold back and answer as accurately as possible. If you want more information on some aspects, I would be happy to share it, because the questions are indeed exceptionally detailed and all the issues are very important. I would also like to thank you for this compliment at the address of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I, too, agree that this is a very good foreign minister. Just like the two previous Foreign Ministers were very good and professional, with whom I and probably the Estonian External Action Service were very good at working together. Now to questions and answers. The first question: 'The European Union has very different attitudes towards Russia's aggression against Ukraine. There are influential countries that use soft words, there are also a large number of countries that are geographically distant from Russia and do not feel the need to act decisively at all. So far, relatively minimalist sanctions against Russia have been justified, allowing any pressure to be exerted on the Kremlin with a view to ending military aggression in Ukraine. In the interests of Estonia's security, the European Union's consensus on the Kremlin's aggressive behaviour and its willingness to prevent it by political and economic measures. We are therefore asking how the government intends to act to continue to convince European countries of the need for countermeasures, to explain our concerns about security and to keep Ukraine topical at European Union summits and in transnational communication. ' The European Union Council decided already in March that the validity of economic sanctions is directly linked to the full implementation of the Minsk Agreements. As the important points of the Minsk agreements are still outstanding from Russia, sanctions must continue until the territorial integrity of Ukraine is restored. We are working to ensure that the European Union remains united and determined in its response to Russia's aggression. It will assess the situation again in December and, on the basis of current information, it can be said that it will still be one of the topics to be discussed when we meet the day after tomorrow. Estonia plans to keep the issue of Ukraine and the necessity of sanctions in the direction of Russia high on all foreign policy meetings, explaining our assessment of the impact of Russia's behaviour on European security. I assure you that I have also done so personally in meetings with colleagues inside and outside the European Union, as well as in very many interviews with a very large audience for foreign publications. The second question: 'The initial treatment of the refugee problem was limited to identifying a specific number for Estonia and giving battle to the quota system. The government considered it possible to receive nearly 200 refugees within two years. Unfortunately, there are no signs that the security situation in North Africa and the Middle East will significantly return to normal, so the number of refugees will not decrease. This means increasing migratory pressure on the countries of southern Europe and increasing the humanitarian problems that arise from it. Estonia may soon again face the issue of the reception of refugees, which has already triggered the manifestations of radicality. What is the government's position and action plan regarding the increase in refugee pressure in the future? What should Estonia do if European partners ask for additional refugees? What are, or should be, European opportunities, preparedness and measures to close the flow of refugees from North Africa? ' Estonia continues to support a holistic approach to mitigating the migration crisis, which includes addressing the root causes of migration in cooperation with countries of origin and transit, strengthening the external borders of the European Union, as well as solidarity measures based on proportionality to assist Member States under exceptional migratory pressure through the relocation that has already been discussed for a long time today. In any event, the decision on measures to resolve refugee crises must remain the responsibility of the Member States and the Council jointly. The sharp edge of the European Union's action is on the way to the external dimension, the European Union's military operation to counter trafficking in human beings is underway, and opportunities are being sought to increase humanitarian aid to the neighbouring countries of Syria. As has been said, at the extraordinary Council meeting, we decided to allocate an additional EUR 1 billion from a common source of the European Union and, in addition, a number of other major countries are contributing with very significant amounts. Estonia, too, has increased its attention to Syria and its activities in the immediate region in the allocation of humanitarian and development aid funds. It is very important, of course, to move forward with the Syrian peace talks, although we realise that this is not an easy task. In order for this peace process to be sustainable, opportunities must be found for talks and international mediation. The recovery of the economy and trade in the southern neighbourhood of the European Union, as well as cooperation with the Western Balkans and Turkey, should also be noted as part of longer-term measures. There is ongoing work on improving the surveillance of the European Union's external borders, and discussions in this area have become increasingly ambitious. One of the questioners asked before whether there had been even talk about a common border guard of the European Union, but this is still limited to the level of the idea. The third question: 'The example of Greece confirms that we do have a single eurozone, but the behaviour of countries is very different and the spread of the syndrome of disaccountability is also damaging to those countries that have kept their finances in order. If we generalise the example of Greece, what are the mistakes of the euro area and the European Union so far, and what are Estonia's proposals to avoid such cases in the future? ' The creation of Economic and Monetary Union as such has certainly been the right step, and the single currency has brought significantly more benefits to countries than has threatened economic development. Looking back at the crisis, the economic and monetary union did not pay enough attention to preventing potential crises. Thus, Member States had a relatively high degree of flexibility within the framework of the Stability and Growth Pact and a number of countries did not comply with the existing rules with sufficient rigour. In good times, it is tempting to grow even faster, also through credit, without paying sufficient attention to the future and reforms ensuring the sustainability of the economy. Above all, public finances need to be kept in order. At EU level, however, the Commission must strictly monitor compliance with the agreed rules. As we know, during the crisis there were only a few countries, including Estonia, which fully complied with the rules. Structural reforms must now be launched, essentially in all European countries. We have also supported making the financial sector more crisis-proof, such as the Single Banking Union, and also created a single European stability mechanism for overcoming crises, which is permanently in a position to act. The harmonisation of the common market and related public finances rules must also continue, which will ensure better competitiveness and internal stability of the euro area and the European Union. Question 4: '2018. In 2008, Estonia will perform the tasks of the Presidency of the European Union. According to the Presidency's agenda, the Presidency's main task is to guide European Union lawmaking and policy-making through the Council's various levels of decision-making. The President shall be a negotiator by the Council in the ordinary legislative procedure with the European Parliament, and shall also represent the Council in its relations with the other institutions of the European Union, third countries and the public within the limits of its competence. A successful Presidency will enable us to strengthen our international image and links and to leave a visible positive mark on European Union policy. What is Estonia's willingness to assume such a great international responsibility? Do we have enough trained staff, resources, information and knowledge gathered, as well as logistical capacity to succeed as chairman? Please describe the government's understanding of what subjects we can put on the agenda as President-in-Office and what are the objectives of the Presidency? ' The aim is to be a professional, effective, open, transparent, working style and constructive Presidency. In 2012, the government set up a Commission responsible for preparation. The government has also discussed the preparations of the Presidency on several occasions with this membership and adopted in January 2014 the Presidency's agenda and the Action Plan updated this year in March. On the basis of this action plan, human resources training, the political content and calendar of the Presidency, communication and external programme, as well as the preparation of the Permanent Representation of Estonia in the European Union, are planned. The experience of previous Presidencies has been gathered and taken into account in the preparation of the action plan. It has been a very good opportunity to learn from our southern neighbours Lithuania and Latvia, who were recently presidencies, both for the first time, just as Estonia is in the first half of 2018. Of course, there are people in the success of the critical Presidency. A total of nearly 1000 people are involved in the substantive work of the Presidency. These people take on the responsibilities or coordination of policies, communication and relations with the European Parliament of the heads of the Council's working groups, vice-chairs and experts. In total, we are responsible for approximately 200 working groups as chairman. Development and training activities will be financed by EUR 3 million of the European Union's structural resources and will be added to this amount by the planned support facility of EUR 615000 to the State Chancellery's budget over the next three years. This money is intended to support strategic staff placements, including, for example, the secondment of staff to national experts in the institutions of the European Union, work or internship in permanent representation of the European Union. In order to highlight the issues that are important for Estonia and Europe, as well as new ideas, we intend to organise up to 200 events in Estonia as chairman. Unfortunately, we do not yet have a multifunctional conference centre ready to host all events within six months, so we need to find the necessary space for events through public procurement. Today, it is not yet possible to say in which facilities the specific events will take place, but in the near future, we must also find out. The current national budget strategy provides for a total of EUR 74 million for the Presidency from this year until 2018. Question 5: 'The Estonian External Action Service must communicate with countries, help its citizens abroad, promote our values and economic interests and represent us in international organisations. This is done with limited resources. We have 46 different diplomatic missions. There is no intention to optimize the embassy network. The development plan of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the years 2015 to 2018 provides for the expansion of the network. The quality and competence of the team is crucial in diplomacy, which certainly costs a lot. How does the government intend to simultaneously increase the representation of Estonia and the efficiency of its work in key international organisations, increase the benefits and motivation of diplomats and maintain the network of embassies and consulates? What are we going to do to make embassies more effective in helping our entrepreneurs to expand economic cooperation and the competitiveness of the Estonian economy? ' Representation in the Permanent Representation to the European Union will be temporarily increased during and before our forthcoming Presidency, but before the Permanent Representation to the United Nations, if Estonia's campaign turns out to be a non-permanent member of the Security Council will succeed. On the other hand, in the next five years, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will have to reduce its office by 55 people. Thus, in principle, it is not excluded that some foreign representation will be closed, which we are trying to avoid. The alternative is to further optimise the compositions of foreign representations, but we must of course take into account that this must not result in a reduction in functions. In a total of 42 diplomatic missions, the person responsible for economic diplomacy or economy is assigned to work in each. Can I ask for more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U127	According to the Rules of Procedure, there is no, but I think that, now that the first question has been asked, you will be able to answer the questions that have not yet been answered. Then we have followed the rules correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U128	Thank you. If I may, I would like to answer the following questions in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U129	Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Thank you for these answers, and I will probably have no choice but to ask you to answer those questions that you have not been able to answer. There are a few more questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U131	Thank you, good questioner! That is indeed a very good and timely question. I'll pick up where I left off. In addition to these economic diplomats, we also have a diplomat in Moldova and Azerbaijan. Our 20 main foreign trade partners are covered by embassies and economic diplomats and it can be said that the Estonian foreign representation network covers almost 95% of all foreign trade in Estonia. Economic officials shall receive appropriate in-depth training before going abroad and shall meet with their national cooperation partners. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs are actively involved in the preparation of international and bilateral agreements. International agreements certainly deserve mention of the TTIP free trade agreement between the United States and the European Union. For bilateral agreements, the most frequently encountered are investment protection and incentive agreements. This creates favourable conditions for the entry of Estonian companies into new markets and improves the competitiveness of companies operating on foreign markets. We are increasingly taking advantage of the opportunities of honorary consuls to promote the Estonian economy and business. Estonia has 195 honorary consuls in 84 countries. The last new direction is the organisation of regional meetings of honorary consuls. In September, for example, there was a meeting of honorary consuls in the Asia region in Beijing. There is, of course, additional coordination of regional-specific activities. In addition to the External Action Service, we have planned activities that would involve more than ever the country-wide competence to deal with economic diplomacy. We have considerable competence in EAS, but actually also in the private sector, such as the Chamber of Commerce, and we will try to achieve even better results by better coordinating this network. We have an example for Finland and now Sweden, where such a non-formal cooperation network in terms of a structural unit has been set up, according to Team Finland and Team Sweden, as a new example, in order to put the people involved in these topics to work as well as possible for one goal. Question 6: 'In order to involve investments and tourists in Estonia, it is necessary to deal systematically with the presentation of Estonia's opportunities and achievements abroad. We have something to offer both entrepreneurs and those interested in culture. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a significant coordinating role here. So far, Estonia has stood out internationally in terms of IT solutions, but this issue may eventually grow old or the achievements of others overshadow our own. How to make Estonia more attractive for entrepreneurs and tourism enthusiasts, whether there is an action plan and what ideas and measures are planned to be used? ' Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs with business organisations of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the EAS professional associations is very close and joint activities are already being coordinated. Part of this work is aimed at making Estonia more attractive to tourists and entrepreneurs. It can be said that the tourism sector is still doing well in Estonia. The project, which was much debated and caused scepticism among some people, was Estonia's participation in the Expo 2015 World Exhibition in Milan. The Estonian Pavilion made Estonia's products and services by exhibiting Estonia's image to more than 2.3 million people. That's a lot. Indeed, there were people who were very skeptical about whether Estonia should be represented there, but having visited the World Exhibition freshly myself, I dare say that I believe that this investment has gone ahead. This pavilion introduces Estonia and what we believe in quite well. I am also pleased to say that Estonia's online success story shines even brighter than a year or two ago. We are beginning to feel that we have already told some stories several times, but these stories continue to be of interest, and this star is far from fading. Of course, we would like Estonia to have new stories to tell so that our e-governance develops. This is self-evident and we are making a very serious contribution to this. But if you communicate with entrepreneurs in any international forum, perform at a university or speak at some very popular talk show, one of the things that makes Estonia known and very positive is that we are at the absolute top of the world digitally. And this is certainly something worth highlighting in the future and on which Estonia's image, as well as practical business relations, can be built. Question 7: 'In May this year, an Eastern Partnership summit was held in Riga on the deepening of cooperation with Moldova, Ukraine and Georgia. The aim of the programme is to help these countries approach European Union standards in economic, legal, social and political life. It will create more stability, extend the zone of democracy and human rights and ensure good opportunities for cooperation in Europe. Due to the expansion of Russia's expansionist activities, the approach of these countries to Europe is difficult. In a war situation, Ukraine, for example, must simultaneously engage in the building of democratic institutions and in painful economic and social reforms. The support of the European Union is urgently needed in order to implement these changes. What is the government's position on the continuation of the Eastern Partnership programme, which activities still need to be carried out in order to ensure that the countries that have joined the Partnership continue to approach the European Union? How, in which areas and how much resource does Estonia intend to support the reconstruction of Ukrainian society on democratic grounds? ' Estonia still stands for the European Union's Eastern Partnership policy to be ambitious, providing partners with extensive opportunities to approach the European Union. The Riga Summit in May confirmed the continued importance of this policy both for the European Union itself and for our partners. It is a partnership between the European Union and its eastern neighbours, based on the sovereign choices of these countries, and it must remain so. This policy also takes into account, among other things, that each neighbour may have somewhat different ambitions for cooperation with the European Union than others. Three countries have entered into an association agreement with the European Union, including Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia, and their focus is on implementing these very large-scale agreements. We stand for these countries to receive the necessary support from the European Union, because the obligations attached to these agreements are long-term and labour-intensive. The visa waiver between the European Union and Moldova has been in force for a year and a half and it works well. I hope that, very soon, the conditions for visa liberalisation will also be met by Georgia and Ukraine, which are clearly very important for the people of both countries. Now answer the other side of this question. Ukraine has been one of Estonia's priority countries for development cooperation for more than ten years. We will, of course, continue to support Ukraine's development in the future and want to contribute to the implementation of the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine through development cooperation. We are ready to pass on reform experiences, to contribute to the sustainable development of Ukraine's state and society, to the reconstruction of democratic regimes, to regional development. I also note, in relation to the previous or previous issue, that we have a very considerable ICT competence, which we also share with Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. Estonia has continued its efforts to support the development of Ukraine and to help alleviate the humanitarian situation there in this year. EUR 2.35 million has been allocated from the 2015 Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid envelope. In addition, through the scholarship programme, we support the studies of Ukrainian students in Estonia and the activities of the Estonian Eastern Partnership Centre in Ukraine. The main emphasis of Estonia's support is the development of the e-state of Ukraine, through which it contributes to a more transparent governance practice and the fight against corruption. Projects will also support the strengthening of cyber defence and the development of entrepreneurship and civil society, help to increase environmental awareness and advise Ukrainians on human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U132	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U133	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! I will come back with my question to the Presidency ahead of Estonia in 2018, but from a slightly different angle, when Mr Ammas asked earlier. There is still a long time until 2018, and this makes sense in itself to some caution in bringing out very specific issues. We may not be able to predict exactly what awaits us in the international arena in 2018, but the Presidency will in any case provide an opportunity to focus more on issues that we ourselves, as a country, are good or very good, where we have been leaders. That is why I am asking for an assessment of whether the digital market issues and perhaps, more broadly, making the internal market work better could be the topics that we have focused on in 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U134	Thank you. That's a very good question. Indeed, a very large part of what the Presidency has to deal with comes from a previously agreed work plan, as well as from acute crises or acutely focused issues. At the same time, it is still possible to bring the volume of 10 to 20 per cent to the thematic selection itself. The emphasis is on our decision. The digital market is well in our plans, as the questioner knows very well. I think there are several factors here. Not only can we present Estonia's progress to Europe as a whole, which is also an end in itself. We do not have to be ashamed of what we have done, including the decisions that were taken 16 years ago when it was decided to give each person a plastic card, which includes a certain chip and which works perfectly as an electronic identity card, but also as newer solutions. However, the second task is that we should still put all our competence and authority in the field of IT at the service of making the European Union's digital common market work better. I believe that we will also find support from the Commission on this issue. The plans of the Estonian state and the European Commission are very similar in this regard, and no one is arguing against very much, even politically. However, I believe that other European countries need more and more encouragement. If we manage to bring as many European ministers as possible and not just digital ministers here and show them how it works in practice, then perhaps it is not too naive to hope that the European Union will make a real digital turn after the Estonian Presidency. Wouldn't it be pretty?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U135	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U136	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! The news is that a so-called "scientific speciality" is being created at the Central Archives of the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation, which aims to combat the counterfeiting of history. As we know, forgery of history from Russia's point of view is also the claim that the peace of Tartu applies. Forging history is saying that Estonia was occupied, not released. Georgia Russia did not attack, Ukraine Russia does not wage war, Crimea is not occupied. Similarly, forgery of history is certainly the fact that Eston Kohver was kidnapped from Estonian soil. The restoration of Estonia's independence is also illegal from their point of view...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U137	Colleagues, a question, please. You can't read all the views of Russia here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U138	Thank you. I hope that my colleague, Mr Herkel, has received a comprehensive answer to his question. Let's go! Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I would take a turn and bring in the Greek question. As we know, one of the conditions for granting a loan of up to EUR 86 billion to Greece was for the institutions concerned to review at the end of each quarter how Greece has fulfilled its commitments. It's all on schedule. By October, Greece certainly had to organise a certain part of its tax code. At the same time, there have been extraordinary elections in the meantime, Tsipras is back in power, etc. Can you tell us what will then be the assessment of the reforms that have taken place? Have they made any progress? After all, Greece is expecting money again soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U140	Thank you. I must admit that I have not been to Azerbaijan for a long time and have not been familiar with the details of this connection. But there must be a place in different regions. Although the lion's share of our trade is happening, as I said, with the European Union, it is only because we have economic diplomats in the largest European countries that is not enough. I, too, have been a Prime Minister, and I am still planning to go to countries with a business delegation that are not part of our traditional major trading partners. For example, a particular sector has a very strong interest in the United Arab Emirates, Oman and the region. I have already decided to accept the request made by operators more than six months ago to visit this region to help these companies open their doors there. Similarly, I very seriously consider taking the business delegation with me to China when I will probably have the opportunity to meet the Chinese Prime Minister at the end of the year. There, too, a business delegation could accompany us, because the interest of Estonian entrepreneurs in China is very high. I know Prime Minister Ansip has gone to Kazakhstan with a business delegation and several other countries in the region. In general it can be said that these visits have attracted a great deal of interest to Estonian entrepreneurs. And if businesses have an interest, wherever possible, the state must also contribute to making this interest a reality, whether through the Prime Minister's business delegation or economic diplomats.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U141	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U142	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! You briefly touched on the possibilities of resolving the migration crisis on the ground in your responses. You also met the British Prime Minister. What are the developments in this regard? Are there any agreements that are already in the process of being concluded or will be concluded in the future in order to be active in this direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U143	Thank you, very important question. When I spoke to the Commission on European Union affairs the other day, I stressed that we believe that it should be the case that we support the neighbouring countries of Syria so that they can deal with refugees there. In some ways, it can be said that, as a surprise, but as a very positive surprise, I saw that very many countries at the Council meeting were of the same opinion. We decided, as a first quick step, to allocate EUR 1 billion from the European Union budget immediately in order to put it there. You named the British Prime Minister. It is Britain that has contributed most from the European countries, from its budget, to supporting Syria and its immediate region. Over a number of years, this money is already in the order of GBP 1 billion, which is even more than EUR 1 billion. So this is one very specific thing. Of course, more steps are needed. I do not think the European Union's billion will last long. There aren't even several billions. But if, hopefully, we reach further agreements in the coming weeks and months, it will in any case be cheaper for Europe than to cope with increasing pressure. It has been agreed that this billion will be provided from the European Union's common budget, not from the Member States. At the same time, of course, Member States are called upon to contribute more than ever to help people in their homes, to provide children with school education, etc. All the basic things that children need, for example, in Lebanon and Jordan and Turkey.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U144	Thank you. It is fair to say that the Council has not yet carried out these interim reports. But it can be quite certain that, while in the meantime there really was an election in Greece, the commitments they have made, and the agreements that have been made, in any case, still apply today. Of course, we will continue to insist that Greece meets all the conditions, only then will the European loan payments be made. This is particularly required at political level by the European Union finance ministers, who monitor developments, but a very large part of the burden falls directly on technical experts from European countries who represent the institutions concerned. These institutions are known to be the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund. There's no relaxation planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U145	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U146	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Our current government is numerous enough for a small country and stands out, for example, for two economic ministers and two social ministers. However, the urban legend says that you intend to supplement your office with another minister in connection with the Presidency of the European Union. Speculation is already made with some specific names. This rumor is not true, and does the Estonian Presidency really need a special minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U147	Thank you. I have to admit, I haven't heard the rumor, and I can't confirm it either. No, we have no intention of increasing the membership of the government. I believe that all the necessary roles will be fulfilled with this number of ministers in Estonia. We do have one more minister today than we did in the previous government, but I think that this additional place, which is, above all, needed to prepare very important reforms, is justified in any case. If it wasn't somebody's "main job," it could inevitably stay in the background, and we wouldn't want that. Major reforms must receive sufficient ministerial attention, and I therefore believe that the current composition of the government is absolutely optimal. The short answer, however, is: no, we do not intend to create additional seats.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U148	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! My question concerns the European Economic and Monetary Union and the fact that in July this year five presidents came up with a report on the future of the euro area. It was acknowledged that the euro area has failed to meet the objectives set for it. It was pointed out that we have not achieved overall prosperity, balanced economic growth, employment and social progress. There are also proposals on how to improve the situation. For example, general rules could instead move towards institutional responsibility and shared responsibility between countries in order to prevent crises and ensure the necessary functioning of the euro area. What is Estonia's position on this matter? Do we need more institutions and, in fact, more Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U150	Thank you. It's a pretty long question, but I'll try to be brief. I think it would be more appropriate to take the stance that we should first comply with the agreements that have already been concluded. Let's start with this. At least one of the criteria of the Stability and Growth Pact is currently not met by a large majority of European countries. A very large proportion of European countries have a debt burden of more than 60%, which, as you well know, everyone in Estonia knows this from the time we talked about the Maastricht criteria to join the euro, is incompatible with the agreements. That's one. Secondly, a considerable number of European countries also fail to meet the deficit criterion. Yes, it is said that temporary needs have been involved, but if this temporary need is accompanied by an additional increase in the burden of debt, it will make public finances less sustainable in the long term. In my opinion, these are the two most important things. In addition to the mechanisms adopted a few years ago, how to act if a country does not meet the criteria and deviates from agreements. They must be filled in in a timely manner. These requirements have been very right steps in the right place. The problem is simply that it has not been possible to ensure 100% compliance with the rules. Once we have achieved this, we can continue to talk about how many additional institutions or agreements we need. As far as I am concerned, we will never reach the end of the harmonisation in the European Union as far as the budget and taxation are concerned, but life will show. For the time being, I would rather take the initiative to comply with existing agreements, and then we will look at it further.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U151	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U152	Good President! Prime Minister! In your reply, you briefly but very positively touched on TTIP, the trade and investment protection agreement between the European Union and the United States. Recently, however, we heard that Berlin had a large demonstration with hundreds of thousands of participants against the same agreement. On 7 October, more than 3 million signatures collected by activists were transferred to suspend this agreement. And a fresh analysis of what is known about TTIP was also published by our Environmental Law Centre. And this was a negative analysis. My question is: what dangers do you see for Estonia in this planned agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U153	After all, the people of Estonia are generally the religion of trade. It is also a part of Tallinn's medieval prosperity that the merchants did their job well. Tallinn was a successful Hanseatic city. It was already realised that trade would make society more prosperous. It is exactly the same now. Of free trade, Estonia and the European Union as a whole certainly have more to gain than to lose. For us, a big step forward was when we joined the European Union when we joined an economic space where there are no internal rules, barriers, standards or other protectionist rules. It can be said that from this point on, although not ideal, the Estonian home market is not 1.3 million people, but 0.5 billion people. There are, and there are, goods and services that the people of Estonia also buy and that are written 'Made in the USA'. I look here at the tables of Members and I see a lot of apple-marked products, which are at least partly produced in the state of California. These examples are numerous and are likely to have experience with them. The Free Trade Agreement will ensure that there will be no more protectionist barriers in the future, figuratively speaking, in the middle of the Atlantic. We in Europe can buy American goods without barriers, and Americans can buy our goods without barriers. I once went to meet with the board of a large German car manufacturer and asked them that you are a big, considerable player around the world, what do you think, whether your client and you, as an entrepreneur, will win or lose from TTIP, a free trade agreement. I was told they'd definitely win. The point is that a very significant proportion of the cars sold in Europe are actually made in the USA and for the same people who buy these cars in the southern part of Germany's headquarters, their price will be around 10% cheaper because there will be no duty to pay in the future. Such a concrete example. I hope that this free trade agreement will also lead to a trend that we are harmonising the most important standards in our countries, so that there are no such, say, protectionist details that are specific to only one specific market. In order to produce a particular market, your product must be quite different from what you are accustomed to selling in Europe. This, too, actually hinders free trade. I think that the people of Estonia have a great deal to gain from this free trade agreement. It is true that trade with America is not as important to us as the issue of trade with European countries. In the order of 70% of our trade is still with the countries of the European Union. Nevertheless, I see an opportunity to win from this certainly more than a chance to lose. I am sure that there are also companies in Estonia that would be happy to increase their sales to America. One more issue, even though it is going to be a long one. But one more thing I believe in is the security dimension. The arrival of TTIP is also likely to improve the possibility of bringing LNG from the United States of America to Europe, which would significantly improve the geopolitical situation and reduce dependence on current sources of energy well known to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U154	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U155	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Our economic diploma in Azerbaijan, I think, will develop links between us and Azerbaijan there. So what's the connection between us?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U156	Okay, there really are a lot of them. But the question is this: in the context of all this rhetoric and practice, where Russia is violating all international agreements and conventions, how can you still be of the opinion that Estonia should enter into further agreements with Russia? I mean the border agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U157	Thank you. None of the companies can stand against objective facts. The great advantage of us and the entire developed world is that we believe in the free media, we believe in the facts. And as long as we have free media and an unbiased view of history events, I am thinking about the events of modern history, so long no company or propaganda department will be able to convince us of anything else. This is actually a problem, though, that there is one language in the world, a very common language in which basically free media news is not available. At least not to the extent that it is possible to get targeted media news. In our own small country, we have made a bold enough attempt to offer an objective, completely independent press in this language as well. I think we did the right thing. I hope that the major media channels in the world will also see the possibility of having more than 150 million people in the world who are almost unable to hear objective news in their mother tongue. But this has absolutely no bearing on whether or not Estonia should get a clear understanding with all its neighbours. I think we should, of course. If there is a clear border agreement, where there is precisely a border that is in line with international law, where we can mark every last metre and centimeter in the right place, not on a temporary check line, and on the other hand we have to choose vague, unregulated relations with this neighbouring country, then in any case, I will choose a certain relationship. The border agreement also states very clearly that there is a line here and there is no one centimeter on either side. I think that makes sense. Just as we know exactly where the border is going with Latvia, it makes perfect sense to seek the same clarity in our relations with Russia. And the sooner we get this over with, the better.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U158	Thank you. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U159	It's kind of weird to hear the border being marked off. On the Russian side, the Russian has long marked the border. Why do you want to start moving it here or there now? I doubt that. There are only a few or three places where changes are coming, and that was known tens of years ago. So I don't understand what kind of border you're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U160	Thank you. I'll explain. I am talking about the marking off of the eastern border of Estonia, which really coincides with the temporary check line that is currently being written off. But there are certain passages, the most famous of which is probably the so-called booty, or boot-shaped mess in the area of Saatse. But there are other areas where the current boundary line or control line runs illogically in nature, and where we have agreed that we will draw these sections straight so that we will replace the border areas in parity. These areas are really not very large, but I think it is reasonable in any case that people who travel from Värska to Saats should not have to go to another country even for a moment in the future. I think it would not be normal, especially if we know that if anyone needs to go to another country, it is very easy to organise incidents, as they have been organised even when our people have been inside our borders. In that case, it would be much easier to provoke. Therefore, I think it makes perfect sense for us to get this border line down in the right place. The clearer the legal relationship, the better. However, as far as Russia's views on historical issues or the undertakings on which you have read in the news are concerned, I would like to address this under a completely different topic.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U161	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U162	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! As far as the border line is concerned, the Government of the Republic is planning large-scale investments to strengthen the border. Does the fact that we do not have a border agreement have any impact on the implementation of these investments?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U163	It can be said that 97% is not affected. We don't have a problem delimiting this part of the lion, where the control line will coincide exactly with the border in the future. In the case of the remaining few percentages, there are two options: whether we can get a contract by the time the border is built and build it in the right place immediately, or whether the border in nature must be correctly marked off on the temporary check line and then sometime later, when the agreement is finally ratified, we will move the border facilities to another place. But generally, work is currently underway to build a border. We'll write down the control line, and in those segments where the boundary is different from the control line, we'll probably have to be ready for temporary solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U164	Thank you, Prime Minister. No further questions for you. Let's move on to the negotiations. Andres Herkel, as the representative of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U165	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! On behalf of the heirs, thank you for your thorough answers. And if you don't mind, maybe a little suggestion, too. In particular, we have a very diligent advisor working with the Free Party Group, who formulated these questions longer than usual for enquiries. We did try to distinguish the sentences of the question from the introductory sentences from the thickness of the letter. If you do not read the entire text, next time, Herkel will not have to spend his question so that the Prime Minister can answer all questions of inquiry. We can read ourselves. And months ago, we actually shortened this counselor's text a little with our own hands. But now some observations and maybe a few more questions left in the air on the topics that seem most important. Firstly, the issue of sanctions against Ukraine. It is, of course, very good that the Council is linking the validity of sanctions to the Minsk agreements. But the question is actually broader and obviously all sanctions can also be spoken of in different regimes. After all, it is also a question of what sanctions have been imposed, how powerful they are and there are no concessions. Problems have arisen even at the level of parliamentary diplomacy. We have the right number of parliamentary assemblies. I think Russia missed one event, but at least in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the vote has been taken away from Russia. I think we need to make an effort to keep it that way as long as there is still such a mess as it is in Ukraine. The issue, of course, extends to what happened quite recently in Syria: an advance by unilateral intervention to defend the Bashar al-Assad regime. In fact, I would have liked to know what the common position of the European Union is here, how it will be taken in the future. The great powers of the European Union gave some different signals at first speed, and this was also the reaction of the West as a whole, I mean both the European Union and the United States. This reaction has been exceptionally weak and we have reason to be very concerned about it. Krista Aru here asked about Greece. It is now very important that this aspect of the quarterly review has been introduced. We want to make sure there's no relaxation here. As far as the Presidency is concerned, you mentioned quite a large amount of the cost to the Estonian state. I might like to hear the comment that if the government is determined not to allow the public service to expand, do we hold this line firmly? It is not the Presidency of the European Union that will become the key to expanding. You mentioned that there would be no increase in the number of ministers. However, I did not quite get the answer, and yet there is no plan to make any ministerial seat lost to the Free Party in general clear if there were social ministers and there were also economic ministers, or if, instead, the Minister of the Presidency of the European Union is not to be established. But perhaps you yourself do not know exactly these answers now, as well as the main issues of the Presidency. I'm gonna ask for a little extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U166	Please, extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U167	A little from the future of the Eastern Partnership and democracy. I would just like to mark a very interesting experience in the presence of the Prime Minister, which I had a week ago in the Kyrgyz elections. Kyrgyzstan, or rather Kyrgyzstan, is said to be, but Kyrgyzstan is more beautiful than that of the Eastern Partnership countries, but what happened there was very remarkable. In particular, technical innovations were carried out largely with the support of external assistance in the organisation of the elections, which I think would have been somewhat different and significantly better than they have been if they had worked in the CIS 10 to 15 years ago. In particular, a system was implemented where the identification of voters was biometrically fingerprinted and the scanner counted all the ballot papers placed in the box properly. So any additions that used to be here and there were ruled out. I would also like to say, among other things, that when we look at Central Asia, Kyrgyzstan is an interesting country. He is not the richest, but with the development of democracy, things are better there than in some other places. Finally, Prime Minister, if you are going to China, do not forget the Tibetan question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U168	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm finishing the third question. There are no further questions for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U169	Let's go to the fourth question. Members of the Riigikogu Viktor Vassilyev, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Mailis Reps, Siret Kotka, Jaanus Karilaid, Martin Repinski, Tarmo Tamm, Lauri Laas, Kersti Sarapuu, Märt Sults and Marika Tuus-Laul have submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski regarding gluten-free food. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U170	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. To be honest, I must say that an inquiry was submitted to Minister Rannar Vassilyev at the beginning of the summer, because that is precisely who I wanted to bully with this question. I would have said then that you would answer me honestly like Vassilyev Vassilyev and so forth. Unfortunately, time runs and ministers run ahead of time. For some reason, it is the health ministers that change very quickly, a long tradition. I once asked an official of the Ministry of Social Affairs if they would like to make a memorial wall of ministers that would have all the ministerial pictures and reigns set up from the beginning of time. I was told that there were so many of them that there wasn't such a long corridor where all these pictures could fit. Time goes by, but the troubles stay. The question to be addressed concerns cöliacia, a disease in which a person is not responsible, with an inherited predisposition. The problem is that a person with celiacism can't stand gluten. It is a vegetable protein containing wheat, rye, barley and oats. This person cannot eat most of the food that other people eat, but there are gluten-free foods. Nor can such a person eat ordinary wieners that contain a certain amount of flour. You can't eat a bag or pizza, all kinds of crap like hamburgers, hot dogs can't eat, of course, and you have to choose your food very carefully. Today, even in shops there are departments where gluten - free food is sold, but it is quite expensive, sometimes more expensive than similar gluten - containing food. As regards, for example, bread, pasta and flour, the corresponding gluten-free products are sometimes ten times more expensive. Nobody compensates for this, even though it's not some kind of lifestyle disease. It has nothing to do with man's own will, he has not caused himself this problem, but his life is quite expensive. The small ones, yes, will be compensated, although on a rather small scale, if I am not mistaken, for 69 euros per month. But they're just toddlers, let a grown man manage the way he can. I've been approached by an entire community of people suffering from celiac disease. By the way, there is no shortage of such people, estimated at 10% of the population or population of people, as said by specialists, or gastroenterologists, who are involved in this disease. So the problem is important enough. We have formulated three questions to which the good people who asked us to raise this issue are waiting for an answer. They will probably also read the verbogram carefully. I'll send them the information we get here. When all three questions are summarised, the question is why special food is not compensated for for people with special needs and how and when it will be compensated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U171	Thank you. Please respond to the Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U172	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will answer the questions you have asked. If I may, I will answer the first and second questions at once. I read the questions: 'Why is special food not compensated in Estonia for a person who has a medically justified need for such food? 'The 'Ravi Insurance Act would allow special foods to be prescribed and reimbursed. For example, some of the special foods for infants are listed as "preferential' medicines. Why is gluten-free food not included in the list of favourable medicines for people intolerant to gluten? Has the gluten-free food distributors made applications to this effect to the Ministry of Social Affairs and, if not, why has the Ministry not addressed them for such a request? ' In Estonia, special foods for special medical purposes and food supplements for the treatment of congenital metabolic disorders have been treated in the same way as the medicinal product and, when included in the list of preferential medicines, are compensated by the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, as you referred to in your question. Currently, a number of infant formulas have been added to the list of preferential medicines for premature children and malnourished infants. Now I'm reading a complex sentence: for example, nutrients without phenylalanine for the treatment of hereditary disease phenylketonuria, which can be prescribed with a discount based on specific diagnostic codes. So there really is a system. The point of the question is whether gluten-free foods could not be included in this list. The distributors of this food have not submitted a request to the Ministry for the inclusion of gluten-free food on the list of preferential medicines. I note that new products will only be included in the list of preferential medicinal products on the basis of justified requests from manufacturers or their representatives. So the Ministry, for its part, cannot manage this process. It is possible that producers have not referred to such a request on the grounds that gluten-free food is not marketed solely or principally as powder or solution. So this isn't a common idea of drug-like things, such as a solution, it's a'real food'. The inclusion of gluten-free foods on the list of preferential medicines, let us admit, would make pharmacies somewhat like groceries. If we started selling wieners, macaroni, meatloafs, sandwiches, sauces, and pies in pharmacies, it would generally be slightly different from normal pharmacy activities. But the specific answer is that such a request has not been addressed. Question 3: 'A law amending the Health Insurance Act was adopted in April last year, according to which also skin care products used for the treatment of ichthyosis are medical devices. This allows the sickness fund to compensate the sick as medicines. Ichthyosis is an inherited and lifelong skin disease. Celia is also a lifelong and drugless disease. Why has the Ministry of Social Affairs not initiated and when is it going to do so, a draft law amending the Health Insurance Act? ' In the case of coeliac, the only treatment is gluten-free diet, which does not contain wheat, rye, barley and preferably no oat foods or products. All other foods are allowed to the sick, including potatoes, rice, buckwheat, millet and maize. When the diet is followed, the symptoms of the disease resolve, the mucus of the small intestine, and thus the absorption of all nutrients returns completely. Thus, celiac patients can also feed in a variety of ways by avoiding gluten - containing foods. Of course, the market and scientists have worked well and, if they wish, offer people a special diet, whether macaroni or bread, to which you referred, which in its normal form contains gluten, but which has been produced without gluten. However, it should be noted here that the use of this particular food, which is significantly more expensive than usual, is not inevitable for these diagnoses. It is possible to prepare a gluten-free diet that is varied and healthy without expensive special products. Now, from this comparison with the ichthyosis you brought. This comparison here is not quite adequate. Ichthyosis is an inherited disease whose only treatment is as intense a moisturizing skin treatment as possible. Therefore, the use of skin care products is unavoidable for these people, and there is no other treatment in essence. For this reason, I believe that the reimbursement of skin care products for the treatment of ichthyosis is significantly better justified. It is justified, then, that this sickness fund should be reimbursed because it is an unavoidable tool for the treatment of this disease and there are no alternatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U173	Thank you. Minister, there are also questions for you. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U174	Thank you. Would you say, Mr Minister, how other countries have solved this gluten problem? Can you give examples?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U175	I have to admit, I can't. I don't have that information. But the question is relevant. Please investigate, and you will be informed in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U176	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U177	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You said it was possible to live without bread, bread, porridge, cake, pretzels, so you could limit your diet. Yeah, of course, it's possible to live with untreated hypertension, including untreated gastric ulcer. Most diseases can be left untreated, and most people do not die from it, just as they do not die from ichthyosis. But it's a question of quality of life. And in terms of quality of life, if the only treatment option is a gluten-free diet and there are options for it, shouldn't this treatment, like any other treatment for the disease, compensate for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U178	There was mush on your list. Porridge can be gluten-free, you can eat buckwheat or rice porridge, including potato, millet and even corn porridge. So in answer to your question, there is indeed a variety of products on the market that have been developed for people suffering from one disease or another. There are things that are certainly valuable and that are consumed by many. For people intolerant to gluten, gluten - free macaroni or gluten - free bread is undoubtedly a worthy addition. However, if we rely on the national health insurance system and have to operate under limited resources, the state has based its inclusion in the list of different items and medicines on whether a substance, medicine or aid is necessary for a person, whether his quality of life or his health suffers without it or not. When you spoke about medical indications, this was not an appropriate comparison. An untreated stomach ulcer will certainly have a negative effect on a person's health, thus impairing his quality of life, making it quite understandable why the health insurance fund also compensates for this treatment. Exactly the same with ichthyosis treatment as I already described in my answer. In the case of gluten intolerance, it is clearly possible to live a full life, to consume a variety of foods, i.e. to feed in a varied and healthy way without consuming gluten-containing products. Of course, if people are able to use additional foods that do not contain gluten, then this right exists. Unfortunately, they are much more expensive. The Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Social Affairs have based themselves on the fact that the consumption of these products is not unavoidable. Compensating them would be quite costly, because, as you have pointed out yourself, I have not overchecked it, but it is probably right, in some cases gluten-free foods are up to ten times more expensive. If we take the broader priorities of the Health Insurance Fund, then there are clearly diseases in Estonia that are not avoidable and that really need to be treated with more resources. That's the answer. According to the current logic, we have been guided by what is most effective from the point of view of public health, which expenditure is most efficient. The second part of the reply is that the producers concerned have not addressed us either.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U179	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U180	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Since 1996, the Estonian Society of Tsöliakia has been operating in Estonia for nearly 20 years, and it is for so-called clients, patients, people's rights and interests. I was surprised that no applications had been submitted. Why? I have repeatedly sat at round tables with representatives of the Estonian Society of Cöliakia in the Ministry of Social Affairs, where this topic has been discussed. Rather, the failure to submit applications may have been due to the fact that it has been said that the disease does not fall under health insurance. My question is, if it doesn't come under health insurance, maybe it could go under welfare. Perhaps you two ministers, in cooperation, would find a solution to this issue, because indeed, if you use the right food for this disease, it is possible to prevent a deterioration in human health, which is saving society.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U181	As regards the second part of your question, I certainly agree: it is in the interests of the state and society that these people live healthy. And basically, they'll be able to live healthy if they follow the dietary rules. I repeat, of course, that I do not want to say that there is no serious illness or that these people have no concern. Of course it is, I understand 100 percent. However, if you look at the various parts of health insurance, which is where additional resources need to be allocated, a good questioner will know that there are very, very many of these areas. Indeed, many of these diseases, to which we cannot provide enough medicines, are much more serious in that they have a significant impact on people's overall quality of life. There is no easy way to control the disease except with expensive medicines alone. For my part, however, I must say that we are operating in really limited conditions of resources. If the relevant agency or other parties can justify the effectiveness of additional state measures, including financial efficiency, and find a real infrastructure solution for offering benefits to the work organisation of pharmacies I have already referred to in my replies, then I am ready to discuss it. But, as I said, from a purely national point of view, these are symptoms that are avoidable; these people are able to live a full life by consuming gluten-free food, which is quite numerous among ordinary foods.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U182	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Good fellows, let's move on fast. Let's open the negotiations. Viktor Vassilyev, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U183	Mr President! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the answers we got. Of course, the answers were also received by the good people, the celiacians, who had inspired this conversion. They have received the answer that they will not be compensated for the consumption of these foods and continue to live as they have lived in 130000 people, 10% of the population. I don't care, all right? Yeah, well, you can say eat corn or buckwheat. A person can't just eat buckwheat and cornbread because a person has to feed in a variety of ways. And no matter how you try, anything that's offered, for example, in the catering community, includes gluten. You're gonna choose something separately. You're not gonna play it out. You still have to go this way, so if you want full food, you have to invest money. The Minister did not, of course, stress a very important aspect here. He hinted that there were resources to be used, but our lives were arranged in such a way as to cure the diseases that the health insurance fund allows for, and those for which the resources were not available are not treated. For example, dental cariasis is a disease, but it is not treated for the money of the health insurance fund. Yeah, the kids are being treated, yes, but otherwise dental care is our responsibility. And not because the government of the Republic considers human teeth irrelevant. We do not have dictators, sadists and cannibals, we have normal people who understand very well, the question is simply that there is no money. There's something else to talk about. Why does the health insurance fund not have enough money to cure all the diseases that are being treated in the civilized world? Why does the health insurance fund not have enough money to keep the order of treatment reasonable? Why does the health insurance fund allow a person to wait six months in the order of treatment? After that, the officials will be upset that people will not come to the doctor. Of course they're not coming. In that time, either the person will be cured or, I'm sorry, on the contrary. One way or another, he has nothing to tell the doctor. The reasons that must be sought are that, over the course of 24 years, we have not been able to raise our country's economy to such a level that we can maintain a normal health care system, a normal social security system. We're always talking about the lack of equipment, that at the end of the year the cripple will be pulled out of the bed and they'll say that if you don't pay any more, take your pillow and blanket, start walking. It is also hoped that celiac, empty, eat manna porridge. Of course, a person with two legs cannot understand a person with only one leg. You can say that you can live with one leg successfully, just don't rush, live slow and full. Well, when you're full, you don't understand those who aren't full. But we must start by having something wrong in our society, perhaps from the times when it was called out that we need foreign investors, they will save our economy. They came, they bought everything with cheap money, where there was a lot of money, whether it was supermarkets, gas stations, banks. And we're still enslaved to the Saxons, they take away seven skins and the local tax office another eight. But if I wanted to maintain what people really need, unfortunately, money will only go on in order to hold some rather unworthy discussions in this dignified Riigikogu hall, which people will not benefit from or enjoy. It doesn't make food cheaper, and it doesn't fall into the pocket of a person who's forced to work hard to keep his nose on the water somehow. And if he has money, he lives, if he doesn't have money, he doesn't. That's our life. It is still important to try to ensure that people are equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U184	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu's speech chair again in the round of negotiations, Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U185	Minister, thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U186	Thank you, Viktor Vassilyev, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for this inspiring speech. Two aspects. First of all, I'm glad you're worried and aching about adult dentistry. As you will know, the government has agreed that the reimbursement of dental care for adults will be discussed more seriously as early as this year with the aim of putting into effect the new system from 2017. So an additional resource is planned for adult dental care and one long-term problem can be solved to some extent in any case. When I come back to the subject, I would like to settle one fact so that there is no wrong impression. The honourable waitress said that there are 130,000 people in Estonia suffering from celibacy. I am not a doctor, which is why I find it awkward to argue with an honorable doctor, but, to my knowledge, gluten intolerance and celiakia are different concepts, although the aetiology and symptoms are similar. If gluten intolerance does not generally result in damage to the mucous membrane of the small intestine and the resulting diarrhoea is transient, cöliacia is the hardest form of gluten intolerance. In this case, gluten causes the body to produce antibodies against cells in the lining of the small intestine. This means that celiac disease is an autoimmune disease, which in turn causes mucosal damage and atrophy. And since all nutrients are absorbed through the lining of the small intestine, the celiac patient with damaged mucous membranes becomes deficient. While gluten intolerance in the broad sense may indeed occur in about 10% of the population, which, given the population of Estonia, could be around 130,000, the prevalence of cöliacia has been estimated at 0.3 to 1% of the population, which gives up to 13,000 patients per country. I do not want to say in any way that there is no problem, of course the problem is, that I have admitted, but the facts could be precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U187	We are going to the fifth question on 10 June 2015, marked 34 and deals with the work capacity reform. Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, will answer the question. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be presented to the public by Marika Tuus-Lauli, the representative of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U188	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Everyone remembers that several laws were passed in the Riigikogu during the final days of the previous Riigikogu. The Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act were amended, the Employment Capacity Allowance Act was adopted, etc. If you remember, people with disabilities and people with special needs were not in any way satisfied with the Employment Capacity Allowance Act, and we, the Central Party Group, did not vote for it. When the new government came in spring, they promised to change the law. At the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs on 14 May, we were told that this would be done to some 60%. At the time, we really had an interest in what these changes were all about, because we felt that the changes were welcome. We asked Mrs Vassilyev, who was the minister at the time, on behalf of the group. Now spring, when we presented this question, has become autumn. To be honest, I do not think it is normal that the question we submitted in the spring be answered only now. The situation has changed. We would have expected answers before Midsummer, or at least when the summer was over, at the beginning of September, not now. However, we would like to know what these changes are from the current point of view. We have discussed these laws again in the Committee on Social Affairs and we can see that 60% of the changes will not come together in any way. Rather, small changes in the period of entry into force have been postponed. Some technical problems have been solved, and since there is a desire to amend the law that has not yet entered into force, there is a great deal of bureaucracy. There's a few little things of substance, but we can't see that 60% anywhere. Please, Minister, enlighten us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U189	Thank you. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U190	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer the questions. Before that, I will say that, as far as 60% is concerned, I was not present with these promises or opinions. However, I really feel that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu have perhaps been talking a little bit about each other. As far as 60% is concerned, firstly, the calculation of the percentage of legislative changes is unlikely to be the most reasonable. Sometimes a very small change can have a very big impact. Secondly, if you look at this law, which has already come into Riigikogu proceedings, it is a thick law forever. The main reason why he is so bulky in the text is indeed what you referred to: it is a change of law that has not yet entered into force and, according to the procedure, in this case the paragraphs have to be rewritten for a very long time. That's why he's technically complicated and maybe sometimes it's hard to figure out what's going to change exactly. As a result, I am happy to shed light on the state of affairs in this large Chamber before I can do so in the direct procedure of the draft. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu will certainly be able to discuss this issue thoroughly in several sessions. The first question: 'What changes do you intend to make in the recently adopted Act on Disability Benefits? When does the bill reach the Riigikogu and by when do you think the law should be enforced? ' The draft law is in Riigikogu proceedings. Since one part of this is the partial postponement of the entry into force of the employment capacity reform by half a year, we have asked the Riigikogu to reach the adoption of the law by 20 December at the latest so that, on 1 January, if the law were to enter into force, the entry into force would have been delayed by six months. Of course, the speed of the procedure is within the competence of the Riigikogu, but we have considered it reasonable to do this during this year. I would remind you that the provisions of the draft, the amendment of which relates to the assessment of the ability to work, will enter into force on 1 July 2016 and the provisions relating to the provision of employment services and social welfare services to a person will enter into force on 1 January 2016. Now for the changes. The draft does not change the principles of labour capacity reform, but makes changes to the laws already adopted, which are reasonable and help to implement the reform better. There are a number of changes and I have also introduced them in greater detail in the Committee on Social Affairs. Here, I'd like to bring out three. Firstly, the amendment to which I have already referred: the postponement of the work capacity reform by half a year and the updating of the corresponding implementing provisions. Secondly, the amendments aimed at preventing the transition from disability pension to disability benefit, i.e. from the old scheme to the new scheme, from a period of no income. As the pension is paid at the beginning of the month, one month in advance and the work capacity allowance is paid afterwards for the previous month, the law adopted would create a situation where the person does not receive the allowance for one month when he or she moves from the old scheme to the new scheme. In order to avoid this situation, a change has been proposed that will solve the problem. Thirdly, changes will be made to facilitate the simultaneous application of the assessment of working capacity and the recognition of the degree of disability. In other words, the so-called one-door principle has been written into the draft during the procedure of the Riigikogu and the corresponding changes have been made to its implementation. The second question: 'What exactly do you intend to change in other laws relating to the reform of working capacity? With what timetable are you planning to implement reform activities? What additional obligations do these changes entail for local authorities? What funds do you intend to finance these commitments? ' Most of the amendments to other laws, as I said, relate to the postponement of six months of the period of entry into force of the employment capacity reform. There are a number of technical changes. For example, a number of changes are made to the laws under which compensation is paid in the event of a loss or loss of capacity to work. The amendments to the Victim Assistance Act, the Motor Insurance Act, the Health and Safety at Work Act include the calculation of the amount of compensation and the establishment of a causal link between loss of working capacity and violence, crime, accident or accident at work. There are still such minor changes. I don't think I'm going to read them all right now. Among the most important, I will mention the so-called 'one-door principle'. It was included in the draft procedure in the Riigikogu in order that a person who at the same time seeks to assess both the ability to work and the degree of disability can submit these applications together. The proposal simplifies the submission, processing and decision-making of applications. In the future, on the basis of the expert opinion given on the assessment of the working capacity of the unemployment fund, it will be possible to decide on the extent of the capacity to work and on the degree of disability of the Social Insurance Institution. The draft also changes the conditions for granting support to persons of working age with disabilities. At present, the payment of the allowance is based on additional costs for disabled persons, calculated using a valid expert questionnaire and a special algorithm. The degree of disability will be determined on the basis of an expert assessment of the ability to work in the future and no additional costs will be calculated. According to the draft, the allowance is paid according to the severity of the disability and where the person is subject to restrictions, such as movement, vision, etc. The conditions and amount of the grant shall be established by the Minister for Social Protection as the minister responsible for the sector. These conditions are designed in cooperation with the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People. However, I would like to ask the Social Protection Minister, Margus Tsahkna, for further details on this issue. Go on. As of 1 January 2016, the amendments to the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act concerning the granting of aid for taking up and maintaining employment, the provision of labour market services and the payment of subsidies shall enter into force. In addition, at the beginning of next year, the target group for the employment capacity reform will be provided with labour market services and labour market subsidies will be paid according to the Ministry of Health and Labour Regulation on the provision of labour market services to the target group for the employment capacity reform. One of the grants that will be paid to a person with reduced capacity to work next year is the travel allowance for work. This is linked to the parallel amendment of the Disability Social Benefits Act, which abolishes unemployment benefit. This is the place where the unemployment fund provides travel support for work. The latter, together with the provision of assistance, replaces the employment allowance for persons with disabilities. The amendment to the National Pension Insurance Act adds two new target groups, who will continue to be subject to the disability pension chapter after the entry into force of the employment capacity reform, i.e. parents raising children and persons receiving disability pension on the basis of transnational contracts. The Social Welfare Act amends the organisation of social rehabilitation, aids and special care services. These services are provided by the Social Insurance Board. The draft clarifies the availability of the data necessary for the provision of these services and introduces changes resulting from the postponement of the work capacity reform. The procedure for granting the aid shall specify the priority ranking. Children and people of working age will take precedence in the future. The possibilities for the Social Insurance Board to design the budget for aids are also specified in order to ensure the availability of vital and daily equipment, such as prostheses, diapers, etc., throughout the year. The amendments to the Social Welfare Act do not include the organisation of social services provided by local governments or requirements for services. To this end there is a separate law, the Riigikogu has reached a new draft Act on Social Welfare, which specifies minimum standards for the services provided by local governments. In order to implement this law, the European Social Security Fund has also been provided for, amounting to some EUR 31 million over the years. But the Minister for Social Protection, Margus Tsahkna, can explain this issue in more detail. My competence also amends the Social Tax Act, which makes it easier for employers to apply for social tax for workers with reduced capacity to work. Under the current rules, the employer must submit the application every month. According to the draft, only one application is sufficient because, in the meantime, the tax office has introduced a register of work to check whether the person still works for that employer. The third question: 'How has the Ministry involved various interest groups (disabled people's organisations, local government associations, etc.) in preparing draft laws, including the development of standards for services for people with loss of work capacity? What have been the views of these representative organisations on drafts and reform activities prepared by the Ministry? ' The members of the Labour Capacity Reform Steering Group were involved in the preparation of the amendment of the Labour Capacity Support Act and related amendments to other laws, in addition to the ministers and officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the State Chancellery, the Social Insurance Board, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, representatives of the Estonian Trade Union Confederation and the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner. The draft was also sent to a number of organisations to give an opinion, and several of them made a number of comments and suggestions. Most of the comments and suggestions have been taken into account. Indeed, local government associations have not coordinated the new draft Social Welfare Act. According to the Municipalities Association, the new draft law adds to the obligations for local authorities that they cannot fulfil without additional State funding. According to the Cities Association, this bill places new tasks on local authorities and interferes excessively in the autonomy of the local government by regulating the organisation of the local government's work. The ministry and the government disagreed with this criticism. The draft is now in the Riigikogu, the social committee is able to hear the parties, submit its proposals and therefore deal with this draft in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U191	Thank you, Minister. You have at least two questions. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U192	Mr. Minister! There was just a debate here that perhaps we have too many ministers, also two ministers in the Ministry of Social Affairs. At the moment, it seems that the issues we are discussing are so intertwined that it is not possible to separate what is a minister and what is in the field of another minister. Take, for example, the Social Welfare Act. I have the letters from the local government. After all, the Union of Estonian Cities has raised many problems. I ask why, for example, they have not been given attention. I'll say again that there would be so many questions, but we can ask one. Where do the jobs that are promised come from? People with disabilities are allowed to work, they want to be trained, but there are no healthy jobs. Where are all the packages with which employers can be assisted, etc.? What would your comment be?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U193	Thank you. I can certainly express my opinion on the Social Welfare Act. We can also discuss this privately, but I think it is reasonable that the Minister, whose competence lies in the subject of the draft, represents the positions of the government in this Chamber. I just don't want to go into this very seriously right now. As far as work is concerned, specific questions are very welcome here. This is a very important issue, and the Ministry will certainly pay great attention to it, as it is one of the main components of the whole reform. It has several parts. Firstly, when you say that there are no jobs, this cannot be completely accepted in principle. If we look at the situation in Estonia, as of next year more people will retire from the labour market in Estonia than they will enter the labour market from the education system. This trend will intensify in the coming years and we will start to talk more and more about the lack of hands. If we look at the current rate of recorded unemployment, many experts believe that it is already below natural level, in fact, we also have more labour shortages than unemployment according to statistical indicators. There is, of course, structural unemployment, there are people whose employment is hampered, whose qualifications do not meet the requirements, etc. People with partial work capacity are certainly one of the risk groups, but this does not mean that there is no job for them, but that they need special attention to get a job. This particular attention is guaranteed by this reform. Firstly, since the beginning of next year, specific labour market services for this target group will be opened. Secondly, as has been mentioned, the state has introduced a special social tax system which motivates businesses to employ people with partial employment capacity. The monthly social tax exemption is a very clear incentive. It is a cost to the state budget, but it is an important motivation in helping people with partial employment capacity to work. In the previous composition of the Riigikogu, the Social Committee, led by Heljo Pikhof, agreed that the public sector would employ 1000 people with partial employment capacity by 2020. I think this is very important, because the public sector really needs to set an example here. It is no secret to anyone that there is a certain distrust among many employers, a certain prejudice in recruiting people with partial employment capacity. The public sector must set a clear example. Therefore, a few weeks ago, I sent a letter to all the ministries asking them to present a concrete plan for their administration on how they intend to achieve this goal. It is clear that all ministries have to contribute here, to consider how this objective can be achieved. On several occasions, I have discussed this issue with representatives of both the Confederation of Trade Unions and employers, and as social partners and members of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, they clearly perceive their responsibility for the success of this reform, for helping these people to work. They are also working to ensure that employers' attitudes on these issues change. On the basis of all this, I am optimistic and I think that this reform will start well. There are, of course, certain concerns, there are issues that have rightly been raised by the Committee on Social Affairs. This is certainly a very substantial reform, which concerns a great many parties, and consequently risks are in the air, but I believe we can manage and everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U194	Thank you. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U195	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns one law that is being amended, the Social Benefits for Persons with Disabilities Act. The amendment means that the unemployment allowance will be abolished and instead the unemployment fund will pay the travel allowance to work. This may be all in itself, this ideology may be correct, but one target group has been left out of attention. After all, the unemployment fund will not be able to receive travel allowance for work by working persons of old age, but the current Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities provides employment allowance for everyone who is working, regardless of age. Does that seem fair to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U196	Thank you. To begin with, a small number of statistics, which were basically an incentive to change this part of the system. The employment allowance, EUR 256 over three years, paid on the basis of expenditure documents, has not been very effective. This is confirmed by the fact that in 2014 only 56 people received this subsidy for a total amount of EUR 8800. This means that the current system is essentially not working, as the people to whom this support is provided do not apply for it. Is it too complicated to report that they do not want to apply for support, or is the amount too small, but it is clear that the impact on employment is very small. As a result, this allowance has been replaced by a travel allowance for work, which is one of the measures of the unemployment fund. The second measure covers the costs of the aid, which were also covered by the same operating aid. With regard specifically to the target group for people with working old-age disabilities, I must admit that I cannot comment on this in this way, but I think this is one of the issues that could certainly be discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U197	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U198	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking you about using the unemployment fund's money to reform your capacity to work. Is this a purposeful activity, how do you comment on it? After all, the unemployment fund was not created for this purpose; it was created for other purposes. There's a pretty large sum now accumulated. I also share your view that this is, in fact, a hidden income tax that is imposed on a person through it. How do you comment on whether the use of the unemployment fund's money is a purposeful use of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U199	Thank you. In terms of the system, I think it makes a lot of sense if the unemployment fund, which I would rather call a cashier, also deals intensively with people with partial work capacity. After all, the goal is for people, including those with partial employment capacity, to get to work and cope with themselves. I consider it fundamentally wrong that people who have a disability or any other restriction that prevents them, of course, from participating in the labour market should be excluded from the labour market at all. That we pay them the support they live with more or less, and then let them sit in their homes. I think it's very wrong. This is wrong, both socially and from the point of view of these people. I'm saying these people really want to work, but they just need help. Who else in the Republic of Estonia should help them to work than the institution designed to help people to work, i.e. the unemployment fund. The provision of additional resources for labour market services has been agreed. The European Social Fund, which is earmarked for the reform of working capacity, will be allocated to the unemployment fund. This money, which comes from the state budget, is also allocated to them. So, of course, these things have been agreed and negotiated with the unemployment fund, and I can say that the unemployment fund is very active and ready for change.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U200	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U201	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, If I understood you correctly, in order not to leave a one-month hole in the pension for the transition from disability pension, the state will pay people the so-called 13-month pay? Is it that instead of 12 months, they get like 13 months of money? How much could that be, and where does that money come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U202	I don't have the materials on hand, and I can't tell you how much it costs for the budget. I believe Monika Haukanõmm or another member of the Social Affairs Committee can tell by heart. But basically, the solution was that we would just pay one month's money under the same work ability scheme. We will move this month forward by one and then record these costs in the costs of launching the capacity reform. I think it is a very reasonable cost, and where it comes from, I do not think it is dignified to argue about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U203	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U204	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! To be honest, I do not remember that there would have been as many problems with any other law as the laws relating to the reform of the capacity for work. I would remind you a little bit of this all the time that this subject has been dealt with. First of all, in spring 2014, when the government exchange and social minister Taavi Rõivas became Prime Minister, a law on labour capacity reform suddenly appeared in some drawer. At the time, it was demanded that it be adopted immediately, even before the Midsummer Day of last year. Taavi Kõivas boasted about how wonderful the law was at that time, how many people will be put to work immediately. Well, a complete fairy tale where everything is very well. In fact, it was unimaginable, because this law consisted of so many parts and should have started with the Social Welfare Act. Urmas Kruuse was then appointed Minister of Health and Labour, who at first had no idea about the matter. He also agreed to adopt the laws immediately, but, fortunately, Helmen Kütt, then Minister for Social Protection, demanded that deadlines be postponed, saying that this could not be adopted. And the letters of entry into force were postponed, although the laws were passed just before the elections, unfortunately. If you remember, demonstrations and meetings of people with disabilities took place throughout Estonia and for the first time in the years of independence, wheelchairs and crutches came to Toompea. A road roller was brought in, figuratively driving over all the demands of people with special needs. A 3,500 signed letter was submitted and a public hearing was requested in this Chamber. We remember that at first the coalition did not want to give the floor to the disabled at all, but eventually they got the floor here and said that this law did not even have a development plan. On that occasion, the law's explanatory memorandum in black and white stated that there was no time for the basic documents to be adopted because the law was urgent. Then it was decided to enter into a goodwill agreement that we would adopt the law and that we would then be able to refine and supplement everything later. But it failed that time, as you remember. Disabled people complained that they would be forced to move into a house without windows or doors or even stairs. A great deal was said at the time that the Social Welfare Act, the Support and Support Services should have started with prostheses, hearing aids, wheelchairs, personal helpers, without whom people could not work, sign language interpreters, supporters, transportation to and from work, rehabilitation, etc. First of all, we should have solved the problem of carers, we should have drawn up standards for local governments, of course, we should have passed the TÕKS Act, which is an accident at work and an occupational disease insurance law, which does not exist to date. Changes should also have been made to temporary incapacity for work and the problem of the education of people with disabilities, which they consider to be the most important. So it started at the wrong end. I remember that the current Minister for Social Protection, Margus Tsahkna, often did not participate in these discussions in the Commission because he felt that the problem had been misinterpreted and did not support the adoption of the law as such. Now Margus Tsahkna's minister is on the social welfare side and he promised that 60% of the changes would come, but we do not actually see these changes. He agrees with everything, essentially the law he voted against. As a minister himself, he agrees with everything. All we see is this change that the assessment of work ability and the identification of disability are in one form, nothing more. Many problems have already been discussed with the Minister here, and I will not repeat them. But when I think afterwards about how this law has been done, I remember the entire ministerial sequence involved. There was Hanno Pevkur at first, for several years the reform was prepared, then Taavi Rõivas came, then Urmas Kruuse, then Rannar Vassilyev, now Mr Ossinovski. Margus Tsahkna is now involved and Helmen Küttt was involved in this law in the meantime. So, a huge list of players. There's no doubt a law can't be good if it's been thrown so much here and there. In fact, it is embarrassing to talk about all this now and it is also clear that this reform does not really make people happier. A couple of Poll's studies a year ago, the peace to Andrus Island's ashes has been said very directly that this law just makes people poorer and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U205	Good waitress, thank you! Any more calls? Please, let's hurry up! The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U206	I don't want to agree with you, Marika. We were both in the previous composition of the Social Committee. Very many people who have partial work capacity want to work. That is what they said in the Social Affairs Committee. It's not like they want to be home. Each person wants to be dignified and to benefit from it. If you go on from here and talk about the Employment Allowance Act, it will certainly give people with reduced working capacity the right to receive financial support from the unemployment fund, all the help needed to get a job. Similarly, a person of working age with health impairment will receive rehabilitation services and facilities, and this will be done as a matter of urgency. I remember very well when people with partial working capacity spoke in the Commission that they had to wait too long for aids. For example, if you are in a wheelchair and something happens to a wheelchair wheel, you cannot go to work, but the employer will not wait months. That thing was fixed, too. Speaking of changes, a very important change is the so-called one-door policy. If a person goes through an unemployment fund's door, he or she can apply simultaneously for disability and disability assessment, disability and disability benefit, including assistance and rehabilitation services, if necessary. This was a very important subject, which was discussed very thoroughly with interest groups under the pressure of people with partial employment capacity and went into the then draft. As Mr Evgeny has already said, in this so-called one-door policy, the nipple-finger has been changed to make it work in every way. Similarly, we spoke of those who become evaluators of the ability to work. These include specialists who have completed thorough training and know the needs, opportunities and peculiarities of people with partial work ability at all. There is one other thing that is very important: does a person with partial work capacity really have to come in from the forest every month or from wherever and show up at the unemployment fund? But we agreed that it would be possible to communicate with the unemployment fund and to comply with so-called activity requirements by telephone or electronic means. In the same way, we agreed in the Commission, now it is already in the law, that the unemployment fund may not, in any case, suspend the payment of the disability allowance until it has been established why the person has not made contact with the unemployment fund. There are a number of other changes, but I'm not going to read them right now. In fact, it is very good that this law exists and that people have been informed. It is also good that the entry into force of the law has been postponed. Everyone can get used to the idea that now they can get a job, the unemployment fund helps them. We are doing the right thing if we use the European Union's resources in addition to the Estonian state's money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U207	Thank you very much. I don't see any more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U208	Let's move on to the next question. Inquiry submitted on 15 June 2015 and numbered 62. The inquiry concerns the situation of micro-producers of renewable energy and is answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be presented to the public by the representative of the heirs Artur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U209	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Today's inquiry concerns micro-producers of electricity. There are not many in Estonia, about 400 micro-producers, but there could be many more. They produce renewable energy and renewable energy producers are known to be charged a renewable energy fee. This problem that micro-producers raise is linked to the payment of the renewable energy fee, or rather, the name of this thing is dismantlement. According to them, this methodology, in which the renewable energy fee paid to them is reduced, is not fair. I'm trying to explain the human languages that it means. A micro-producer usually produces electricity at its own household. What a micro-producer uses for consumption in his own household, we are not talking at all. If self-consumption is spared, it sells part of the electricity to the grid, and if its household needs to consume more, it buys part of the electricity from the grid. In short, the micro-producer actually produces the renewable energy it sells. In terms of electricity accounting, the process is to dismantle back and forth. The amazing thing is that the renewable energy charge also takes into account this forward and backward movement. This is perfectly normal for large producers of renewable energy. If it has a renewable energy unit that generates energy and either takes energy from the grid to produce it or consumes energy from itself, it will be removed from the support for renewable energy, which is fair. The micro-producer, however, practically does not consume energy to produce energy, i.e. it is a microscopic part that it needs, for example, to keep the inverter or some other mechanism running. This is usually not higher than the energy consumption required to maintain a television screen in standby mode. The micro-producers want the disposal accounts to be changed. Their desire is that the renewable energy charge only takes into account the energy that they sell on the grid and does not take off the so-called grid electricity that they use for their own household and not for the same generation of electricity. In short, the goal is to eliminate this injustice. It is likely that such a thing as renewable energy support will disappear at all in the near future, but that is another issue, this is not a question that is being put to the Minister at the moment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U210	Thank you. I now ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure of the Riigikogu to answer how to eliminate this injustice!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U211	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will then respond, within the limits of my powers, to an inquiry by the Free Party into the situation of micro-producers of renewable energy. I'll read the question and then I'll answer it. The first question: 'Why does the government coalition ignore point 9.14 of its coalition agreement and not improve the situation of micro-producers? ' From the point of view of the electricity system and according to the Electricity Market Act, producers and consumers are among the different producers of electricity, while others consume electricity. In the case of micro-producers, some 400, as mentioned, these are consumers who, under certain conditions, also act as producers. They therefore in certain cases are subject to consumer regulation and, in certain cases, to manufacturers regulation. Under the Electricity Market Act, electricity supplied to the grid is measured over a period of one trading hour. The trading hour, as I said, is one hour. Each hour, a comparison shall be made between the amount of electricity supplied to the grid and the amount of electricity consumed by the grid at the production points. On the basis of the amount recovered, the renewable energy aid shall be paid. As the trading period is one hour, the same amount of electricity that has been deposited on the network will reach the consumer within that hour. Dismantling is an explanation of the difference between the amount of electricity purchased from the grid and the amount of electricity supplied to the grid during a trading period. This shows the quantities actually involved by the micro-producer in the market. In addition to the support for renewable energy, the micro-producer can ask for a certificate of origin for the energy produced and supplied to the grid. I would say that point 9.14 of the Coalition Agreement has been fulfilled. In the case of grants, micro-producers shall be treated equally with all other renewable energy producers. Micro-producers receive support for renewable energy on a uniform, non-discriminatory basis, i.e. according to the quantities with which the micro-producer actually took part in the market, as the legislator has intended in the electricity market law. The second question: 'When does the government intend to liquidate micro-producers in a discriminatory legislative ditch in the electricity market law? " According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Riigikogu, or the legislator, has not produced a crackdown, and when granting grants, micro-enterprises as well as other renewable energy producers are treated equally. Micro-producers and other renewable energy producers are treated differently by distribution companies, such as electricity distribution, when they consider network charges. The standard terms and conditions for network charges shall be approved by the distribution system operators and coordinated by the Competition Authority. The Competition Authority is currently preparing an analysis of how it is best to organise production and consumption accounts. So there's a solution to the problem. Question 3: "Does the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure consider it important to create a better operating environment for renewable energy micro-producers and, if so, what additional measures are envisaged for this purpose? ' The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications supports any energy production and consumption solution that helps to reduce consumption, increase efficiency and the use of which is reasonable. Micro-producers have already been given even more equal treatment and a number of steps are planned. Elering, for example, has significantly simplified the application system for renewable energy support. There is a system of certificates of origin for simplification, which also allows micro-producers to obtain and trade a renewable energy certificate of origin for their energy produced. In the review process, there is a separation of network legislation, which improves the regulation of the management of small electricity networks. The plan is to clarify the situation for potential joint renewable energy projects. These activities are also mentioned in the government action programme. Question 4: "How do you think oil shale energy should be reduced and renewable energy increased, and what are the objectives of the coming decade in this respect? " The renewable energy targets for the next decade are set out in the 'Energy Development Plan 2030' draft. In 2030, renewable energy accounts for 45% of final energy consumption and 28% of domestic primary energy consumption. These targets are quite ambitious but can be met and include reducing the share of oil shale. For example, we will continue to reform the heat sector so that by 2030 80% of the heat consumed in Estonia will be produced domestically. District heating currently accounts for 44% of the heat consumed from a renewable source. The target is that renewable energy will account for 50% of final electricity consumption by 2030, with a current level of 14.3% of domestic electricity consumption. The Ministry, as well as other parties, is actively engaged in achieving these objectives. Opportunities for cooperation are sought. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U212	Thank you. You have at least one question. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U213	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I tried to clarify this complex subject with my hands in my speech, but I guess it wasn't too good at it. This equal treatment, which you mentioned for all renewable energy producers, is the problem that micro-producers have. Perhaps if a large producer really consumes some amount of energy to produce energy, this amount is microscopic in the case of micro-producers. In terms of disposal, it makes perfect sense to calculate this amount for large producers, but it is unreasonable for micro-producers. So I think, however, that it is rather micro-producers that are treated unequally.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U214	Thank you. As we have already discussed in the costaares, the nature of this problem may need to be clarified. Ultimately, this rule really is, as you mentioned, the same rule that, for the electricity sold on the market, this amount is small or large, everyone who crosses this line will be remunerated. As you mentioned, there have indeed been discussions in heat production, for example, on how to implement the disposal, on whether, for own use, if, in the case of heat production for which additional support is paid, this fee should be paid, and it has been concluded that it is as if it should not. When drawing up the coalition agreement, I know, there was certainly one argument for equal treatment of producers. The second argument was that when calculating this own consumption on a basis other than the energy generated by the network, there should be additional accounting bases, which means that somebody should start measuring on the ground in some way. This would perhaps place an additional burden on micro-producers or give some other task. I think this discussion may continue, but the principle of simplicity and equality has now been sought.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U215	The situation of micro-producers is also a question of Krista Arul. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U216	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Please tell me whether you believe that sufficient parties are involved in the process of amending the Electricity Market Act. Have their opinions been taken into account and which of these differences have been the most important?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U217	Thank you. I think the honourable questioner certainly knows that the new electricity market law is on its way. There has been a great deal of involvement in this process. In fact, he even stopped in Parliament last time before the elections, because there were differences of opinion. Now I have participated in several meetings in the Ministry, where the various parties are together, precisely those who still have unresolved problems. At the moment, the bill is in the government's round of coordination. There's a difference of opinion at the Ministry of Social Affairs. We'll deal with it the same way. But I think that Parliament, too, will certainly start to deal with this draft, the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the legislator will then be able to consider all aspects. For our part, we try to be fully open and inclusive, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U218	Minister, there are more questions about this issue for you. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U219	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Could you elaborate on the differences between the Ministry of Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U220	Thank you. In the new Electricity Market Act, there is a difference of opinion between the Ministry of Social Affairs, which has also passed through the news. I will say briefly that this concerns the use of wood at Narva plants in the context of the statistics trade. This is the point of discussion. I've essentially been of the same opinion. We are trying to make sure that any trade in statistics that would generate income for Estonia does not distort the Estonian timber trade market and thus the use of raw materials.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U221	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U222	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Do you consider it appropriate to burn wood pulp at Narva plants and support it nationally?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U223	In the government, I was also a member of the previous government, we decided that we would not. This has been discussed in the Government Coalition in order to participate in the process of statistical trade. In fact, this means that countries that fail to meet their targets buy statistics from those that can. The only prerequisite is that it must not artificially increase the price of wood raw materials used in Estonian heat production. I stress that this is also my conviction, I think here in the same way as the Minister for Social Affairs. This conviction has been repeatedly heard by all heat producers who have gone to the Ministry to discuss the Electricity Market Act, which Krista Aru asked about. We're trying to find a reasonable solution. Let's say that the party who can participate in the production statistics trade is Eesti Energia, and I understand that they also have opportunities to obtain raw materials in such a way as not to distort the Estonian market if necessary. This actually ensures that the Estonian economy may be able to trade statistics, other countries will be able to buy it and therefore the price of heat will not increase in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U224	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U225	We will move on to the seventh inquiry, which will be submitted on 10 June 2015 and will bear the number 45. This is about the situation on Estonia's main roads. Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will answer the question. Please be advised by Dmitri Dmitriyev, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu's speech chair, who will introduce the inquiry to the public!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U226	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, we have submitted an inquiry on the subject of 'Statutory of the state of Estonia on the main roads'. Estonia ranks 64th in the World Economic Forum's Road Quality Scoreboard as of 2014. We are on the same level as Georgia, Gambia, Dominican Republic and Laos. We are barely behind Kenya and Ghana. At the same time, Lithuania, for example, is in 34th place. Tallinn-Tartu, Tallinn-Pärnu and Tallinn-Narva highway are mainly 1 + 1 lanes with which they have got in the way of time due to the increasing traffic load. Although cars have become better and safer, the limit speed and the condition of the roads still allow the largest highways in Estonia to travel as quickly as it was possible 40 years ago using the Soviet Union's car production. The traffic opportunities on the three largest highways in Estonia certainly do not meet today's needs. Therefore, there are a number of questions that I ask the Minister to read before answers are given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U227	Thank you. Kristen Michali, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U228	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to the question of the members of the Centre Party Group regarding the situation on the main Estonian roads. I'll start by specifying some facts. According to the 2014 Competitiveness Report, published by the World Economic Forum in 2014, 54th place in the world, not 64th place in terms of the quality of Estonian roads, has been found in our house. In addition, the inquiry has highlighted Kenya and Ghana as countries that are lagging behind us. But I would like to draw attention to the facts of the heirs and say that Norway, which is located in 74th place, is also behind us. Maybe you should be aware of that, too. Of course, juggling with these facts does not mean that there is no room for improvement on Estonia's roads either in question or here. I'll answer the questions now. The first question: 'How many kilometres from Tallinn to Tartu, Tallinn to Pärnu or Tallinn to Narva highway is planned to be built in four lines over the next five years? " Making the three main roads a full four - line is undoubtedly the expectation of many people. An important criterion for the construction of 2 + 2 roads is the traffic frequency of cars and heavy traffic. According to the road design rules, the road must be four lanes with an average annual prospective traffic rate of 14500 cars per day. Four-line roads will be planned when the traffic rate reaches 10000 vehicles per day, in Finland 9,000 vehicles per day, in the United Kingdom 11000 vehicles per day. On the 1 + 1 sections of the three main roads you mentioned, the traffic frequency is less than 8000 cars per day. At this frequency, no country design standards are known to provide for the construction of a four-line road. According to statistics, one of the main roads is one of the busiest 1 + 1 sections of the Tallinn Ring Road Väo-Jüri section, about 12,000 cars per day. It needs a 2+2 solution. This section also has a high traffic rate for heavy duty vehicles over 12 metres, 1,500 to 1900 cars a day. In the nearest five years, the plan is to reconstruct the section of the Tallinn roundabout between Jüri and Väo 2 + 2 lines, in addition to the junction of the Hellfield, Karla's special-level knot, the Lagedi viaduct to the connections and the Lagedi level crossing. This project has received funding of a total amount of EUR 53 million, of which 85% is the Cohesion Fund. There is no comparable traffic rate on the main roads you mentioned, but nevertheless it is planned to rebuild many nodes and bridges to improve road safety. For example, the Sillamäe railway junction, the Pirita road bridges on the Tallinn-Narva road and the so-called pass-by areas, or 2 + 1 roads, are planned to be rebuilt to improve road safety by the end of 2019 on the Ääsmäe and Kernu road. MKM, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, prepares an analysis of the funding options for the construction of the 2+2 section of the road. On this basis, the government will make its decisions, expected to continue this year. The second question: 'Why was the priority given to Tallinn on the Pärnu Ikla road, where in 2014 alone the traffic rate rose by 4.4% and the frequency of combinations of cars by 6.2% on the Ääsmäe section of the busiest traffic, use a 2 + 1 variant with lanes, which may not significantly improve the situation given the constant increase in traffic load? 'Across the world, road cross-section selection (1 + 1; 2 + 1 or 2 + 2) is the main criterion for the prospective road traffic frequency. The traffic frequencies of Estonia's main highways are predominantly 6000-8000 cars per day, within which 2 + 1 roads are more economically efficient. The planning of the construction of 2 + 2 roads is, as a rule, justified if the projected prospective traffic rate is on average 14500 cars per day per year, as previously stated. Other infrastructure developments, such as Rail Baltic, are also taken into account in determining the need for development in the planning of road investments, such as the deployment of which in 2025 will have a significant impact on the volume of heavy traffic in Via Baltica. On the Ääsmäe section of the Ikla road in Tallinn, 8074 cars were on average per day in 2014, 13% of which were car trains. The traffic surveys carried out during the preliminary survey and preliminary design of the Ääsmäe section of the Kernu road showed that the prospective traffic rate also does not exceed 14500 cars per day. The main objective of the development of the Ääsmäe section is to improve road safety. Safe pass-by options will be created to reduce the main problem . The driver can plan bypasses and fewer bypasses in places that are not suitable for this according to the geometry of the road. The use of the central border also minimises the possibility of accidental entry into the opposite zone and thus the possibility of frontal impact. Question three. 'Your predecessor in this profession, Urve Palo, has offered that the Tallinn-Tartu highway could be built four lines up to Paide, if not beyond 2020. On the other hand, the Reform Party has consistently opposed borrowing, although it would boost the economy and enable the roads to be modernised more quickly, thereby improving road conditions and saving human lives. Please explain the position of the current government regarding the inclusion of loan money in road construction. ' In cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, the analysis of the possibilities for funding the Kose-Mäo 2+2 section is carried out, and on this basis the government is expected to take a decision this year. It is possible for the State to borrow to cover investments or costs, and this is also being done, if necessary, to cover working capital. However, any additional investment will have to assess its impact on the budgetary position. Regardless of the source of financing, any government investment has an impact on the balance of the budget. The country's fiscal strategy for 2016-2019 was confirmed with the following objectives: a structural surplus of 0.6% of GDP in 2016; 0.2% of GDP in 2017 and 2018; and 0.6% of GDP in 2019. This country's budgetary strategy does not contain any available resources and any additional investment, including that not taken into account in the preparation of the current strategy, will have a negative impact on the budgetary position. Therefore, in order to carry out an additional cost, any other expenditure already planned must either be withheld or postponed. Question 4: "How efficiently and appropriately do you think the European Union's contribution to road construction has been used so far? ' About 107 million euro of EU money has been allocated to national roads for the years 2004-2006, 2007-2013. EUR 264 million for 2014 and EUR 200 million for the 20142020 period. During the 2002-2014 period, 651 kilometres of roads have been reconstructed and built with European Union funds. This has significantly improved the level of road surfaces on the country's main roads, reduced the age of the covers and improved road safety. The selection of projects financed by the European Union has been based exclusively on cost-benefit analyses. The choice shall be based on traffic and load frequencies, road status and road safety levels. The selection criterion is socio-economic profitability and the achievement of the road safety objectives. From a cost-effective point of view, the main factor is savings in the costs of time, vehicle and road accidents. The design of the investments is based on the principle of the minimum total cost of the life cycle (20 to 50 years). Road reconstruction objects are cost-effective income-cost ratio between 1.5 and 2.5. Given that the reconstruction of state roads will have a lifetime of at least 20 years, with renovations, road investments will have a major economic impact. In addition, it has a positive impact on the population and entrepreneurship in the region. Investment in roads must take into account the long-term perspective, at least 20 years, and the increase in traffic frequencies associated with this period, as well as the realisation of road-related plans. The objectives and principles of EU support are coordinated with the European Commission. The rules are set out in the legislation and in the individual project financing decisions. Control mechanisms work and audits have not identified the unintended use of EU funds. So, to sum up, the European Union's resources have been used effectively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U229	Thank you, Minister. There's a question for you too. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U230	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm asking for interest in how much a multi-track road costs these days, let's say, 2 + 2 lanes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U231	Thank you. We're in the process of designing. If we get to that phase of construction, we can tell exactly how much it costs. It's too soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U232	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U233	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Let's continue with the previous question. How much is 2 + 1 tea cheaper than 2 + 2?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U234	Thank you. It's hard to say. I can tell you about it. Let's just say there are countries with different experiences. For example, Swedish road builders went to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and said that they had found some savings; it was entirely during the conversation with a size of 20 to 30%. Once again, it's based on a sense of gut and conversation between you and me. Everything depends on the particular road , which objects are around, what are the loading and exits, what are the possibilities for buying land, etc. I'm sure you understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U235	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U236	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Did I understand your report correctly that at this point these three major roads are not designed to be built in three rows or, if built, only four rows?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U237	Thank you. In short, we are now analysing with the Ministry of Finance the possibility of building 2+2 additional roads along the direction of Tartu, as I mentioned, and in the direction of Tallinn Pärnu 2+1.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U238	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No, I don't. So the question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U239	Let's move on to the eighth question. It is presented on 10 June, is on land reform in Estonia and bears the number 44. Reply by Minister Marko Pomerants of the Environment. Please ask Toomas Vitsuti, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu's speech chair, who will introduce the questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U240	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. We presented you with an inquiry into the land reform in Estonia. You have also given me a long reply to the written questions that have been put to you in the past, but unfortunately I have to say that the answer was scattered and dim. In order for your answer to be more specific today, I will try to explain briefly the focus of the problem. The legislator has been accused of poor land reform laws, which is why the reform cannot be properly implemented. The law is an instrument awarded to the Land Administration to carry out land reform. The way they use it also depends to a large extent on the outcome of the reform. Figuratively speaking, if someone's using a computer to break nails, it's not the fault of a computer manufacturer. The focus of this problem focuses on the interpretation of subsections 12 and 14 of the Land Cadastral Act, where the error in the boundaries of the cadastral unit formed on the basis of the plan and map material is reported to be up to 50 metres. The Land Office interprets this margin of error allowed by the legislator in such a way that if a buyer with a right of pre-emptive purchase of the land is looking for a stone in the forest, he may take the border inspection post to the stone found and increase his cadastral unit within the limits of the error. This creates a situation where the buyer receives more land and forest, for which he has not paid the State in the course of privatisation. These are not cosmetic or negligible orders of magnitude. For example, the Land Office has stated in its earlier statements that the cadastral unit could increase several hectares during the so-called nature celebration. Despite my repeated attempts to get an overview of the land reform with facts and figures, I have not succeeded. From this I conclude that the Land Office has no overview of one of Estonia's biggest reforms, or that it is a vicious matter. Minister, thank you very much. Do you have an overview of the reform so that you can evaluate free distribution of state assets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U241	Thank you. Please respond to the question of the Riigikogu's speech chair Marko Pomerantsi, Minister of the Environment!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U242	Good evening. Mr President-in-Office and the good Members of the Riigikogu! It is, of course, nice to have such a debate at a time when it has been more than 20 years since the start of the land reform and in most municipalities either 95% or 98% of the reform has been completed. But it's nice to think. I will answer your questions specifically. I expect that this time it will be a good answer, and if it is not, I will wait for further questions. There are specific questions. First, you ask whether the position of the above-mentioned point of view is well written about your questioning, it can be concluded that the owners of a certain cadastral unit do not know the size, extent and exact location of their property (the location of the border points). Cadastral units can be formed on the basis of plan and map material without mapping in return, privatisation, municipal ownership and ownership of the land. Pursuant to Government Regulation No 88 on the approval of procedures for the formation of a cadastral unit on the basis of plan and map material, the boundaries of the cadastral unit are generally introduced on a plan or map to the future owner of the land in the event of the formation of cadastral units on the basis of plan and map material. We stress that, according to the third sentence of point 10 of the procedure approved by Regulation No 88, the owner and/or the border neighbours are also entitled to require the drawing up of a border protocol. A border protocol shall normally be drawn up in the wild. The border protocol shall be signed by the land applicant and the border neighbours. The foregoing shall ensure that the owners are aware of the size, extent and location of their ownership. Account must also be taken of the principle enshrined in the Land Reform Act, according to which the rightful subjects of the land will thus be returned within the limits already known to the owner, subject to that law or to the requirements of planning and land management or agreement between the eligible subjects of the border neighbours. Thus, the owners are certainly aware of the extent and location of the property in the event of a return. In practice, uncertainty may arise from the fact that the owners of the cadastral units were not informed of their right to require the display of borders in nature and the drawing up of a border protocol. So if the owners of the cadastral units did not show any interest in this, the identification of borders and border crossing points was limited to showing them on a map or plan. In such a case, there is a real possibility that a person does not know the size, extent, and exact location of his cadastral unit. The second question: 'Know that, as one unit of land expands, the other unit must be smaller. Since you claim that the area of the cadastral unit is not a permanent size, how many units of land will the future increase and how many units of land will be reduced? ' Nice question. If a surveyed cadastral unit is formed next to a cadastral unit formed on the basis of plan or map material, the measured cadastral unit boundary will normally also become the cadastral unit boundary of the cadastral unit formed on the cadastral map. On the basis of the principle that cadastral units have common border points and common border sections, the change in the location of one border inspection post or section of the cadastral units concerned on the map may theoretically lead to an increase or decrease in the area of another cadastral unit. In the past, we have also explained that the cadastral keeper does not keep records of an increase or decrease in the area of the cadastral unit. The area is derived from border data, not the other way around. Therefore, we will not be able to provide you with the desired figures for the changes in the current area. It is even less possible to give a reasoned opinion as to how many cadastral units formed on the basis of plan or map material may change in the future. Since the area is directly attributable to the boundaries (border data), the increase or decrease in the area does not concern only the area of cadastral units formed on the basis of plan and map material. Similarly, due to the new catastrim surveying, the area of the cadastral unit, formed in an aerial photogeothetical manner and surveyed in different surveying systems, may change. Mathematically, it is likely that with each new measurement, even if it has been done with a very accurate instrument on the L-EST system, the area cannot be reached with absolute accuracy, which was the result of the previous measurement, since the area the value of which is calculated using the mathematical formulas based on historical boundary data or determined graphically. We will add that if the same cadastral units are subjected to cadastral surveying in order to identify the boundaries on the terrain and thus show the exact area of the cadastral unit, the same is likely to decrease, increase and remain the same. The third question: 'If in the future the land units will only increase and this will not only happen at the expense of land belonging to the state (for which the owners of the cadastral unit will not pay the state), can the Republic of Estonia face territorial complaints against a neighbour whose area may not also be permanent? " Also a nice question. As explained above, the question at issue, the increase in the land unit, is merely a change in the boundaries of the cadastral units on the cadastral map. This means that the data will be specified according to the boundaries and boundary data available on the terrain and with changes in the calculated area in a situation where the position of the border on the terrain will not change. It is not appropriate to assume that the Republic of Estonia will have territorial claims against some of its neighbours. The Republic of Estonia is bordered with the state border, along with the border strip and the border strip are owned by the state. The formation of cadastral units during the land reform process has taken into account both the state border and the border strip. Question four. Does the person asking correctly understand the written answer of the Minister for the Environment that there are two possibilities for changing the boundaries of the immovable property, one which is regulated by law, and the other, where cadastral units formed on the basis of plan and map material are allowed to increase the cadastral unit for the account of the neighbouring cadastral unit and land belonging to the state when marking the border in nature? No, the owner of the cadastral unit is certainly not allowed to arbitrarily increase the cadastral unit on the account of the neighbouring cadastral unit and the land belonging to the State. One of the objectives of catastrim surveying is that the cadastral reflects the actual situation and reduces inconsistencies. In a situation where cadastral data do not correspond to the actual situation or where an error is detected between spatial data and cadastral entries, there must be an opportunity to correct these differences. Cadastral surveying, including procedures for marking cadastral border inspection posts established on the basis of plan or map material, shall be clearly regulated in the applicable legal order and shall provide that the border inspection posts of the cadastral unit formed on the basis of plan or map material shall be marked on the terrain on the basis of a border protocol and/or a cadastral map extract, a cadastral unit plan, landscape objects and existing boundary signs. In addition, in the natural environment, the owners of previously surveyed cadastral units adjacent to the surveyed cadastral unit will also be involved. Where new border markings are installed on the border of the previously surveyed cadastral unit bordering the surveyed land unit, existing border markings shall be restored or, if the adjacent cadastral unit is formed on the basis of plan or map material, the border protocol shall be signed not only by the representative of the municipality, but also by the owner of the corresponding cadastral unit entitled to return the land and/or pre-emptive privatisation, but also by the border neighbouring party. In the event that a dispute arises between border neighbours at the location of the border, a border determination procedure must be carried out. The concept here is arbitrary, as if the area of the cadastral unit formed on the basis of plan and map material were changed without a legal basis. The courts have also agreed in several court settlements that the precise location of the cadastral unit formed on the basis of plan and map material and, accordingly, the precise area of the cadastral unit must be surveyed and the boundaries of the terrain marked in accordance with the rules laid down by law. Question 5: 'In your written answer, you use the concept of an area unit not defined as 'the calculated value of the area'. Please explain what the legal definition of this concept is and how such a concept can be linked to land reform. ' There is no legal definition of this concept. The area of the cadastral unit derives from the boundaries of the cadastral unit (border data). The term 'calculation' refers to the activity performed to obtain area in this word compound, i.e. the area is calculated by a planimeter, a linear Palette or mathematical formula. In the course of the land reform, the legislator has allowed the formation of cadastral units on the basis of plan and map material or also through surveying. In addition to plan or map material, cadastral units have been formed in an aerial photogeothetical and instrumental way. The accuracy of the cadastral area depends on the accuracy of the limit data used to calculate the area. Question 6: 'In your written reply, you state that the exact area of the cadastral unit can only be determined by cadastral surveying. You have also noted that the area is not a permanent size. Is it possible to determine precisely the area of the cadastral unit by catastral surveying or not? 'The precise area of the cadastral unit and the location of the boundary on the terrain can be determined as a result of the cadastral surveying, provided that the terrain has coordinates assigned to border crossing points and, where appropriate, to border-related landscape objects. However, it is necessary to take into account the measurement error resulting from the methodology and the techniques used for catastrim surveying, which is the permissible difference in the position of the coordinates determined for cadastral surveying in a densely populated area of +/-0,1 metres, while the distributed area is even +/-0,70 metres in relation to the national geodetic core network. The exact area obtained from the cadastral surveying may also vary as far as the accuracy of this measurement is concerned. Question 7: "What legislation should a legitimate subject receive compensation from the state if it turns out that the cadastral unit has been reduced by cadastral surveying after marking borders in nature? On the contrary, when the cadastral unit has increased, what legislation should be used to provide additional payments to the State for the land acquired and the forest growing there? ' No compensation or premium has been paid to anyone so far because there is no legal basis for this on the basis of the more accurate data obtained from catastrim surveying and on the basis of differences in the area previously calculated. It is based on the principle that, for reasons of legal certainty, a person does not have to pay an additional premium if the area of a cadastral unit is larger than the original one, nor is it entitled to claim compensation if the area proves to be smaller when measured at a later stage. The fact that the boundary of the cadastral unit is not indicated on the terrain and the precise area is not determined must be taken into account by the owner of each cadastral unit who has agreed to form a cadastral unit on the basis of plan or map material. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U243	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U244	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! In fact, you have admitted that you and the Earth Administration do not have an overview of the land reform. It is not over yet, because marking on the basis of plan and map material is still taking place in nature. My main question, however, is how it will be possible for the transferred state assets to be distributed to citizens without any remuneration.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U245	Thanks! First of all, I cannot agree with your view that the country does not have an overview. Otherwise, land reform would not have been possible to reach where it is, and all the activities of the land registry would be pointless. If you focus on my last answer, we can say together that so far it hasn't come out and it hasn't been expected to have enough cases to compensate for one or the other. Quite by chance, I have been the governor of West Viru for eight years and also participated in the whole country reform process as one of the parties to the procedure. I can say that neither the privatization of the land on the basis of the plan material is designed to spite the people, but, on the contrary, to meet them. Certainly, all nature surveying is more expensive than surveying on the basis of plan material. And I'm pretty sure most situations are where there hasn't been any bad follow-up on the basis of plan material and people can live and operate their daily economic life. Good neighbours, of course, must also be a prerequisite for all of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U246	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U247	Thank you to the manager. Good minister! My question does not concern the surveying of the cadastral unit, but the question is still going to be asked. How many countries does the Republic of Estonia have in the first place, and what is your vision of this unreformed state country? Is there a plan of work and those responsible, or what about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U248	Thanks! I haven't exactly prepared that number. It is simply, within the framework of another subject, that somewhere in Lääne-Virumaa, the state does not privatise the land to people because it is supposedly preparing for oil shale mining. That's a lie, Mr. Ratas! I have seen three Lääne-Virumaa rural municipalities and one Järvamaa rural municipality in the area of Esna, where the neighborhood girl works at the parish government, that such land can be between 94 and 98%. I think it reflects quite well the situation in Estonia. Surely, within a few years, we must overcome this end and put an end to the land reform. We haven't done any special meetings at the moment, a theme set, how to get to that message on x-day, that it's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U249	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Please speak to the Riigikogu Chair Toomas Vitsuti!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U250	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. I am convinced that land reform has taken place and that there is still illegal land acquisition, a grand state theft. I have factual information on one privatisation case where, in the course of the purchase of the cadastral unit raised on the basis of plan and map material, 0.8 ha of the 80-year-old forest owned by the State was acquired at an estimated cost of EUR 16000 to EUR 18000, without paying any remuneration to the State. Since the Land Office confirms that this is not an exception but an established practice, it raises doubts about the scheme of state theft. The plot of land theft is simple in itself. During the land reform, the citizen privatizes land and forest on the basis of plan and map material. All parties, including representatives of the state, will sign the border protocols as a sign of agreement, which in turn will serve as a basis for determining the price of land and forest to be privatized and paying the state. On the basis of the border coordinates, the value of the land and the forest shall be assessed separately and the price shall be determined to the nearest square metre. State theft is committed in the nature of borders. Here the Land Administration allows buyers not everyone but those who have information about this possibility to search in the forest or in the field for a stone and measure the border around the location of the stone. The Land Office calls it a border clarification. Instead of bringing the border marking to the border inspection post already agreed and signed, the border inspection post is allowed to be moved to the so-called border marking. There will be a new land unit larger than the land unit acquired in the privatisation process, so that the land and the forest that has been measured has not been paid to the State. If it were to clarify the border, as the Land Board claims, then there should also be a reverse process in which the privatiser seeks a stone, leads the border point to it, and its cadastral unit will be smaller. According to the Registries and Information Systems Centre, cadastral units have been formed on the basis of plan and map material, 99542 or approximately 100000 cadastral units, a total of 379285 hectares. However, not all privatists on the basis of plan and map material have used such a scheme, but only the part that has information about this possibility. I've studied with several surveyors how much they know about it. It turned out that far from everyone knew of such an opportunity. From here I conclude that the Earth Administration has a certain circle of surveyors using this scheme. But the investigation into the Land Office is already out of my jurisdiction. I've been trying to explain the scope of this scheme, asking both the minister and the cadastral. Can I have some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U251	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U252	The replies to the written questions submitted to the Minister show that the land registry does not keep records of land reform. There is no real picture of land reform. It is also clear from the response of the Registries and Information Systems Centre that it is not possible to distinguish between properties privatized by the right of pre-emption of land in the land register, i.e. state assets are not recorded in this respect. The Land Administration has no overview of one of the largest reforms in Estonia's assets, land reform. The land reform has been carried out over a long period of time, as the Minister noted. The first entry was made in the land registry in 1992. Since the number of buyers in privatisation is high, the potential damage caused by the theft of the State is likely to be very high. If, for example, 1% of this 100000 privatizer has been used in this way, the calculated loss amount will amount to millions of euros. If such a scheme is used, has been used or is still in use, because this process has not yet ended by 10%, the damage already amounts to hundreds of millions of euros. In fact, what we heard here today is exactly the same story that the Earth Authority has told me repeatedly about the twisting, the blurring of the matter. Despite this twisting, I have a very specific question: how can I assess a situation where state-owned land and forest are divided without any reward? I'll ask you again. How is it possible to dispose of state assets without any remuneration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U253	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U254	We will move on to the ninth inquiry to be made on the day of 10 June 2015. The inquiry is about compensating the environmental impact of Ida-Virumaa for the population and bearing the number 49. Reply by Minister Marko Pomerants of the Environment. Please be advised by Dmitri Dmitriyev, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu's speech chair, who will introduce the inquiry to the public!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U255	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am really pleased that the current Minister for the Environment is well aware of the situation in Ida-Virumaa. Therefore, we do not have to argue at length about the existence and importance of the problem raised in this question. The oil shale industry has an important role to play, not only in terms of employment, but also in terms of the welfare of the entire county of Ida-Viru. At the same time, environmental problems in Ida-Virumaa, directly or indirectly linked to mining processes, have long attracted attention. These are both water supply and land use problems. Although the Environmental Act partially compensates for the negative impact on local authorities at the location of environmental use, there is a conceptual contradiction in the system of environmental charges. Revenue from taxation does not return through the state budget to the area where industrial companies operate and where they leave their mark. Only 8% of the resources of the Environmental Investment Centre, of which at least 70% will come from the oil shale industry, will return to Ida-Virumaa. Most of the environmental money collected from Ida-Viru County is distributed equally between other counties. This conflict has also been referred to by the Prax Research Centre in its study on the oil shale sector published in 2013. I quote: '... the additional management of the money from environmental charges through the Equalisation Fund for the general purpose of the state budget is not in line with the principles that the primary objective of environmental charges is to support the implementation of national environmental policies. ' I must also say here that, according to the current environmental model, local authorities, for example, receive part of the charges for water and mineral extraction, but we also have municipalities whose air quality is affected by the activities of the oil shale and chemical industries. If, in fact, there is no extraction of mineral resources in the territories of these municipalities in order to be part of the environmental charges paid to the state budget by the local industrial company. In view of the fact that there are a number of municipalities in Ida-Virumaa that are in a critical situation precisely because they no longer have resources charges, but the effects of inheritance and emissions of pollutants are still high, we have put a number of questions to the Minister for the Environment. I think the Minister will be happy to read them before answering them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U256	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be answered by Minister Marko Pomerants of the Environment!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U257	Hello again! Ida-Viru County. Let's start answering questions again. The first question: 'Is and with what additional measures are there plans to compensate local authorities for the negative environmental impact of air pollution? ' Environmental charges must be paid to those responsible for the negative environmental impact. The environmental charges collected are distributed between the state budget, the budget of the Environmental Investment Centre and the budgets of local governments. The aim of this distribution is to refocus the money paid for negative environmental impacts on society in a balanced way. Part of the money is given back to local governments to invest in order to improve the quality of life in the local area. This must benefit the local people in particular, the people in the area of influence. Some of the fees are directed towards supporting environmental projects through the Environmental Investment Centre to reduce environmental impacts. In this way, the fees received contribute directly to the quality of the environment. Through the state budget, part of the money is distributed back to society as a whole, for example to reduce the taxation of labour, but also to finance the mitigation of negative effects by covering health costs. There is currently a principle of distribution, according to which local authorities receive part of the payment for the right to extract mineral resources, for the specific use of water and for the disposal of municipal waste in order to improve quality of life and compensate for the negative effects. External air and water pollution charges are mainly targeted at the Environmental Investment Centre, through which they go back to finance projects that reduce pollution in particular. Reducing water pollution will benefit primarily by improving the status of water bodies and will not directly affect local residents. Ambient air pollution affects all biodiversity as well as human health. For this reason, we have started, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, to analyse the conditions under which the local authorities will be redistributed part of the ambient air pollution charge. I would also like to point out that the draft law amending the pending law on the ground will also change the current distribution of mineral resources and water charges to local authorities. The aim of the amendment is to exclude environmental charges from the Equalisation Fund, which does not include them in terms of content. In future, environmental charges must be paid to local authorities as additional revenue to compensate for disruptions. At present, environmental charges are still part of the local government's income, which also covers other costs. In addition, we create an area-based model for local governments in the oil shale mining area, which provides money to all local governments that overlap with existing oil shale mining reserves, regardless of extraction. This is because the region as a whole is affected. Local governments and companies will still be able to apply for project-based funding from the Environmental Investment Centre. The second question: 'How do you justify the fact that the budget for the environmental programme distributed by KIC consists in environmental charges paid by most industrial companies located and operating in Ida-Virumaa, but that less than 10% of the sums paid by these companies return to the region through KIC? ' Environmental Investment Centre offers application-based funding. Therefore, in order for the money to be returned to Ida-Virumaa, local authorities and businesses must present a project that will lead to green activities that meet the conditions for the projects financed. In Ida-Virumaa, projects were financed during the 2011-2014 period, both through the KIC environmental programme and through the structural instruments, in volume, which is the second largest after Harjumaa in terms of the volume of rural areas. It cannot therefore be argued that Ida-Viru County would receive less funding through KIK projects compared to other Estonian regions. In particular, the number of applications needs to increase in order to increase the volume of funding. Many projects are so voluminous that funding from the environmental programme would not be enough to finance them. For this reason, money has been requested from structural funds. Here are some examples of style. In the field of ambient air, 21 projects in the Ida-Virumaa region amounting to EUR 3.4 million have been funded since 2011. The implementation of all these projects will have a positive impact on ambient air in Ida-Virumaa either by reducing emissions of pollutants or by monitoring pollutants to identify sources of pollution causing disturbance. In order to reduce the ex-post impact of mining, the Environmental Board organises the reconstruction of the shurfiva of the former Käva mine in Kohtla-Järve, which is still owned by the state, with the funding of KIK. The site should be organised during this year, a pilot project. From now on, it is planned to map, to the greatest extent possible, all mine collapses and sinking associated with abandoned mines and to continue to clean up hazardous or targeted land sites as larger groups. In order to reduce the environmental impact of Ida-Virumaa, larger waste projects have been carried out, which have also had an impact on the aquatic environment, including improving the status of the Purtse River. First, the closure of the semi-coke hill of Kiviõli. The project was supported by Cohesion Fund funding of EUR 5.6 million. Second, the closure of the Kohtla-Järve semi-coke hill. The total cost of closing works was EUR 37,2 million. The European Union's 2007 to 2013 action 'Walking of pollution sites in former military and industrial areas' has organised residual pollution from the former Narva asphalt concrete plant and residual pollution from the territory of the former Ahtme asphalt concrete plant. Both sites are listed on the first 75 national waste sites. The European Union's 2007 to 2013 Cohesion Fund's water management project "Development of water management infrastructure' has received support for the project of reconstruction of water supply systems in Kohtla-Järve and AS Narva Vesi has received support for the reconstruction of water supply and sewerage systems in Narva, EUR 29 million. There's an opening party next week. Smaller projects have also been funded from the KIC Environmental Programme. The total amount of water management projects financed by the Water Management Programme of the KIC Environment Programme over the period 2011-2015 is EUR 6.9 million. In the field of water management, which is the largest share of KIC funding so far, more than 10% of Ida-Virumaa has been targeted through KIK. In total, Ida-Virumaa projects have financed 15 million euros from the environmental programme for the period 2011/2014. These examples are given in order to illustrate the importance of KIK funding for Ida-Viru County. I am not saying that the amount of aid to Ida-Viru County from the environmental programme is necessarily sufficient, but it is precisely the amount of support needed from the environmental programme that may not be in line with the possibilities of the environmental programme. No money can be given unless an application has been submitted. The third question: 'What specific activities is the Ministry of the Environment planning to organise to mitigate negative environmental impacts in Ida-Virumaa? ' The main and most important option, such as improving ambient air quality, is the reduction of pollutant emissions from the source. The 'polluter pays' principle applies in Estonia. In accordance with this principle, specific mitigation measures must be implemented by the installations themselves. The Ministry of the Environment can direct and support the optimal implementation of the measures and reduce the amount of pollutants causing major disruption. Oil shale and chemical industries have continuously improved their technology and introduced new fishing equipment to reduce emissions to the environment. As regards ambient air quality, I would point out that emissions of sulphur dioxide have decreased by around 87% between 1990 and 2013, in particular due to a reduction in the volume of energy production. The quantity of oil shale oil used as fuel decreased considerably during this period, and was also transferred from the combustion of the masour to the combustion of natural gas and wood. The use of Masudi has decreased due to the tightening of fuel quality requirements. Eesti Energia has reduced the sulphur emissions of Narva oil shale power plants by 65% in five years, whereas the share of the Baltic and Estonian power plants in SO2 pollution was 57% in 2013. Health protection must be ensured by the Ministry of the Environment with established environmental quality limit values. Overshooting thus reflects the frequency of the non-compliant situation. Of course there have been some problems. Of the pollutants specific to the region, phenol has improved its ambient air condition. Formaldehyde is a chemical compound that causes cancer and its concentration in ambient air should be given special attention. While in 2013 the concentration of formaldehyde above the daily average limit value was measured in Narva, in 2014 the level of formaldehyde in ambient air remained below the limit value. Air quality in the region therefore complies with low-perceived standards. In Narva, continuous measurements of ammonia and hydrogen sulphide were started in the last quarter of 2014. Based on the results of the measurements, the concentration of pollutants during the monitoring period remained below the applicable limit values. Overall, in recent years, ambient air quality has improved in terms of both traditional pollutants and regionally characteristic pollutants, such as ammonia and phenol, as well as in terms of the number of exceedances as well as maximum concentrations. A study on the health effects of the oil shale sector was also carried out in 2014. The work looked closely at the health of the population and compared the results with that of the environment. A list of mitigating measures was also added to help improve the situation. The implementation of these measures must certainly be taken into account in order to reduce the impact in the region. It has also been proposed to carry out similar research after a few years to find out how people's health has changed. In recent years, the Ministry of the Environment and its administration have carried out the following projects in Ida-Virumaa: "Estimating the quality of ambient air in Kohtla-Järve City', "Estimating the quality of outdoor air, odour disturbance and pollutant emissions in Sillamäe city and Vaivara region', "Measuring and modelling the quality of outdoor air in Kiviõli city and measuring emissions from the main sources of pollution in Kiviõli Chemical Industries OÜ'. On the effects of mining, the Ministry of the Environment currently organises with the financing of KIK the preparation of an overview of the careers of construction assets that have been damaged and abandoned by mining, including good order, possibilities for future use, need for remediation, etc. An overview of Ida-Virumaa has been submitted to the Ministry of the Environment. Continued projects are planned to rehabilitate abandoned careers that need to be rehabilitated. In the field of water, the Ministry of the Environment will implement the programme "Inventing pollution sites' approved by the Minister of the Environment by decree of 2 April 2014. The programme has a budget of EUR 3.1 million and is supported by the Cohesion Fund. The aim of the programme is to carry out pollution studies in the Purtse river basin and a technical solution to eliminate the residual pollution of the Purtse river and its tributaries (Kohtla and Erra). In addition, an environmental impact assessment shall be carried out. The work must be completed this year. The cost of cleaning the Purtse River is already at least EUR 25 million according to preliminary studies. Cleaning works are planned to be financed from the Cohesion Fund for the 2014-20 period. The Fund's contribution is 85%, therefore the project must also be co-financed by the Environmental Investment Centre of SA. In particular, the reduction of the environmental impact associated with the oil shale industry as a whole concerns the implementation plan for the National Development Plan for the Use of Oil shale 2016 to 2030, which sets out a list and a description of the measures to be implemented by 2020. Both the development plan and the implementation plan involve representatives of the sector, scientists, ministries, environmental and economic experts. In summary, I would like to say that the environmental impact of Ida-Virumaa is being reduced at a number of different levels, through different funding and in cooperation with both the sector and local authorities. If the members of the Riigikogu have proposals for implementing additional measures, we will discuss them more specifically. Discussions on the re-allocation of external air charges to local authorities are already coming this autumn. The other four pages of objects that have received money, I will not read them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U258	Questions for the Minister. Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned the draft law on the ground before. As this also applies to the income base of local governments, I ask how you feel about a situation that was not accepted by either the Association of Municipalities or the Association of Cities. In fact, the revenue from the state budget is increased by reducing the income of local governments, with the amount of the mining right fees constantly increasing and only being received by the state budget, while the amount of the mining right fee received by local budgets remains at the same level as the unit price determined by the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U260	Thanks! Well, we'll be able to discuss at least two documents soon. One is the development plan for the use of oil shale for the years 2016 to 2030 and the other is the draft law on land. I'm sure we'll find the truth on how to move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U261	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U262	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Thank you very much for the overview of what has been done in Ida-Virumaa! I wonder what can be done, and what more must we do in Ida-Virumaa in the coming years, so that the problems that are there now disappear from our lives.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U263	Thanks! I can only say so much that if a similar question comes here in about three years, the answer has simply been extended by the actions that have been undertaken. We must continue, in principle, in all areas. There are also planned activities to be discussed here, such as getting Kukruse Mountain under control. There are people in Ida-Virumaa who think they don't know if it makes sense. But the only thing you can tell from the Department of the Environment is that a problem that lasts decades wants to be eradicated. Indeed, with the help of foreign resources, it does not help your country's money, and I think it is reasonable to draw a line on this, as well as on the elimination of the residual pollution that has already been mentioned in the water catchment area of two rivers. These are certainly more specific things.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U264	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U265	Marika Tuus-Laul, Peeter Ernits, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Vladimir Velman, Lauri Laasi, Andrei Novikov, Enn Esemaa, Tarmo Tamm, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Karilaid, Aadu Must, Mailis Reps, Siret Kotka and Mikhail Korb have submitted our final question today. In the name of the heirs, Ms Tuus-Laul takes the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U266	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. I submitted an inquiry on August 18th, as soon as possible after the dangerous and depressing transport of pig carcasses infected with African swine fever in the open truck and burial in the Porcupine-free area near Torma. Of course, we wanted to get these answers faster, but it seems that the ministries have taken the view now that a deadline is chosen as far away as possible. It is clear that the handling and burial of African swine fever with dead pigs did not meet the requirements. The country did indeed demonstrate its inadequacy in dealing with this plague. It was a depressing example of Jõgevamaa and Storma, where the burial ground built near the landfill was not deep enough, as a result of which the plagues surfaced during a powerful decay process and lay there under the open sky, even though the Torma Municipality had protested against the burial of pigs in areas where no infection had been found and the farms were also untouched. Triin Pärsim, an elder in the municipality of Torma, has even said that this could be a deliberate spread of the virus. We have a number of questions about this and we are asking the Minister to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U267	Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, responds to the inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U268	Hello again! I am pleased that my longtime colleague, Marika Tuus-Laul, stands up for the electorate in the region as a people's ambassador in his well-known goodness. It's my job to answer. If the Riigikogu worked in July, I would certainly answer your questions, but you rarely come together. The first question as to whether burying pigs near the Torma landfill will, in my opinion, meet all environmental requirements can be answered as follows. I have already said this several times that burying pigs killed in the fight against African swine fever near the Torma landfill was the least environmentally risky solution from the possible proposed burial sites. There are no environmental requirements for the burial of animal waste, so this is a decision to consider the disease situation. Burying of animal waste is an option only in the event of the eradication of animal diseases. As an additional comment, I can say that what concerns the 'outward' of pigs can certainly be regarded as the result of poor burial work. But all of this does not say that the burial site chosen near the Torma landfill would have been a bad place, according to then's knowledge. I can say that there has not been much more knowledge in Jõgeva County about where there are better places. The second question: "Why is the burial of the dead pigs of the plague on authorised areas outside the danger zone? This will speed up the spread of the plague. ' The implementation of biosecurity measures to control animal diseases is organised and the possible health risks of animal diseases are assessed by the Food and Veterinary Office in the Ministry of Rural Affairs. It should also be noted that by decision of 7 August 2015, the European Commission had already amended the Implementing Decision concerning animal health control measures in relation to African swine fever in certain Member States (Annex concerning the entries for Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania) and considered the disease zone 3 of the rural municipality of Torma. That was before the decision to bury Tormas was made. At the same time, Jõgeva, Põltsamaa and Puurmani were included in the same zone. The city of Blackwater was included in the disease zone 1 by the same decision. The animal waste is proposed to be buried by the Food and Veterinary Office, which may authorise the incineration or burial of animal by-products under conditions that prevent the spread of risks to public and animal health if the transport to the nearest approved establishment for the processing or disposal of animal by-products would increase health risks or if the disposal capacity of such establishments had been exceeded in the event of a widespread outbreak of disease. Here again is the reference to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. This field is only covered by the Code of Conduct for the Control of African swine fever, approved by Order No 144 of the Director-General of the Food and Veterinary Office of 9 September 2014. The third question: 'Absolutely, dead pigs of the plague may lie in the barn for several days in hot seasons, as happened in Keyblood. How is that even possible in the event of the virus being highly contagious? ' As Minister for the Environment, I can reply that the Food and Veterinary Office is responsible for the eradication of the outbreak as well as for the biosecurity requirements and the contingency plans and other veterinary requirements established by the Food and Veterinary Office. I'm sure you can ask that if you haven't done it yet. Question four. With regard to the burial of pigs in wells dug outside the Euro-compliant landfills, specialists have said that if we do not collect or clean water under our natural conditions, discharges of sewage into groundwater are unavoidable. What is your position on this issue, and should this form of burial not be banned? Certainly burying a large number of animal carcasses involves environmental risks, but this is only done to prevent dangerous animal diseases in exceptional circumstances. The Ministry of the Environment aims to reduce these risks as much as possible. Burial is only an option from our point of view if other ways of destroying carcasses, such as burning in a moving burner, you already know the story or transporting it to Small Maarja, cannot be used, and the Environmental Board is coordinating precisely on the basis of the principle of water protection. In addition, the Environment Agency has submitted a monitoring plan to the Food and Veterinary Office, which will also be implemented. Under normal circumstances, the burial of animal by-products is not permitted and the right to grant such derogation is granted only to the Food and Veterinary Office. It is not made up in our own country either, but it is based on Regulation (EC) No 1069/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council. In addition, while it seems that the dawns are quiet here and the situation is calm, the Environmental Board and the Food and Veterinary Office will certainly work together to get to know and explore possible pre-selected burial places. To this end, the Environmental Investment Centre has allocated EUR 40000 at its last meeting in order to carry out further research and drilling. It may well be said that all of these points selected on the basis of map material may not be appropriate at all. But disease is extraordinary, and therefore considered decisions are indeed of great importance. Let us hope that our officials can do them in every way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U269	Questions. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U270	Yeah. If an inquiry does not meet the requirements, i.e. is not in the field of this minister or does not concern the Minister's direct duties, this is not an inquiry. For this we have the form of Question Time or the form of a written question, other forms. It's a pretty long tradition here. But why the inquisitors considered it necessary to send their questions to the Minister for the Environment, Mr Rein Ratas can ask his colleagues who submitted this question. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U271	I'll answer March Sults about that. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U272	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I have a very short question. In the near future, when this, say, blackmail happened at the burial site, you promised to drink water from the well next to the burial place. Have you been drinking?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U273	Thanks for the question! I'll answer Rein Ratas first. No matter what you ask next time, if it meets the conditions for questioning and the questioning has reached me, I will also answer questions that do not concern my administration at all. When it comes to drinking water, I've wanted to, but I haven't succeeded. The reason is very simple. I wanted to go along with the so-called second round of surveillance to visit the same wells and places. I found out about it about two days before this circle started. So I couldn't change my schedule. But I am full of conviction that what has been said will be done. I hope I'll be informed sooner, and I'll be able to take this round.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U274	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U275	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! You referred to the fact that the pigs opened our eyes to the relatively crippled water situation around Torma, just as Eston Kohver opened our eyes to the relatively crippled situation at the border. What should be done to ease water problems for the people in the area of Storma?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U276	Thanks! Perhaps this answer coincides a little with what I said in answering questions from Ida-Viru County. If the problem has been identified by the local authority itself, then the possible measures should be considered and reflected in the water management plans. Then, if necessary and unable to do so on its own, possible assistance must be sought from the national institutions that have been set up for this purpose. The Environmental Investment Centre could be one example of style.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U277	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U278	Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard so far what the Minister of Rural Affairs Kruuse thinks about the subject of swine fever. It was good to know now what the Minister for the Environment thinks of it, because it is a matter of pollution and groundwater, so the Minister is competent. The way the plague was handled with dead pigs, buried in the Jõgeva County of Torma in the dangerous vicinity of Lake Peipsi, accompanied by lies, is depressing. With the delivery of pig carcasses to the vassits. They lied to the face that the carcasses were covered with a three - foot [3 m] layer of soil, lied about the depth of the burial. They said it was buried seven metres deep, but it wasn't like that. A lie was lied about the burial site as if it were an area under the control of the Torma landfill, where waste water treatment would also have been ensured. The spoiled animals were simply pushed into one of the random holes from which no amounts of water were collected. There really is only one step from here on, and it could all end up in our groundwater. I would like to point out that in the opinion of Äripäev, a highly experienced geotechnical engineer, Ago Vilo, clearly said in the opinion on 'Smog burial pigs' that if the water is not collected and cleaned in the same way as in the landfills, the discharge of sewage into groundwater is absolutely unavoidable and it is only a matter of time before it reaches the water abstraction site. The collapse of the carcasses lasts for years and, according to Vilo, the pollution remains in the water for centuries. He also said that under our natural conditions, the quantities of imbecile water are very large, 300 to 500 litres of water per year, and unfortunately, it reaches groundwater. As a result, it was particularly astonishing when, immediately after the movement of the pigs from the plague in an open box, from which the rotted liquid fell on the roads, after the introduction and burial of the pigs, Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, said at a press conference that no social panic was needed, the influence of the rotted pig's body fluid on groundwater was minimal. Minimal! That means there's danger, but it's empty of it, so it went like that, and that's it. In fact, this pollution will remain in the water for a century. It was also lied that pigs were properly covered immediately during burial with chlorine lime. In fact, this was only done after the pigs surfaced, when the leaks were already visible. Still, the question remains as to why the plague pigs were buried in areas that were out of danger, where at that time there were no pigs dead from the virus in the wild, and the farms were completely untouched by the disease. The Minister didn't take our suspicions very seriously today either. By the way, on 26 August, Sergei Donskoi, Russian Minister of Natural Resources and Ecology, addressed our Minister of Rural Affairs Kruus with a written request to stop burying pigs immediately near Lake Peipsi. He recommended and taught us that plague pigs should still be burned and not buried. At least that advice was professional. However, I think that our question today, which is the subject of groundwater and the non-collection of imbecile water, certainly concerns our Minister for the Environment, who will then be affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U279	The members of the Riigikogu have no further requests for speech. Would the Minister like to say the final word? Please, Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U280	Thanks! I will continue to try to be balanced and justified in dealing with this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, Marika Tuus-Laul! I have such a good suggestion that you listen and believe in the Estonian authorities as well. In our country, it is not necessarily the recommendations of the Russian Minister for the Environment that must be taken into account, but that our officials must be believed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U281	This item has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U282	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have an addition, a procedural addition to the procedural line you just said. Some time ago, with the signature of the Chairman of the Board of the Riigikogu, I received a note that the honourable member of the Riigikogu, the question you submitted to this and to this minister, is not really worth discussing or falling under this heading, you can simply submit a letter to him with a request for information. So anyway, the Board of the Riigikogu is also somehow related to the addresses of enquiries.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U283	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! The fact that many mistakes have been made in burying Torma is already widely known. The most topical issue relates to monitoring. According to the manager of the rural municipality, the results of the monitoring have not been communicated to them, except for zero monitoring. The other half of my question: couldn't scientific research be carried out on what is really happening in that grave, now that this destruction has already occurred in Stormas? How does this process work and whether the virus will be destroyed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U284	Thanks! As far as the first question is concerned, indeed, according to my data, two monitoring circles have now been carried out. I assume that the surveillance data will reach the people concerned. I can tell you, I haven't seen the data in the second round either. The situation may not be good, I say, but the reason for this is not to bury the pigs, but rather, in all likelihood, that the water management situation in the apartment buildings is bad. If the ambassadors of Ida-Virumaa stand up for the people of their region, I think that the ambassadors of Jõgeva County have the same reason to be concerned and to worry that the water management situation at Peipsi will be better at all. With regard to the second half of the question, whether any excavation work could be carried out, I think that there could be a competent director-general of the Veterinary and Food Administration who could justify why there would be a reason to act or not to act in any other way. It is a knowledge of the survival or destruction of the disease virus, and it can only be in their hands, as they are currently under the supervision of the same burial place.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U285	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U286	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Your answers made it look like everything went well. I mean, we buried a little lower than we promised, was in an open car, body fluids infiltrated the street, so what? It was allowed to cover with chlorine lime, but it was done later only when the pigs surfaced. Don't you think it went completely wrong to bury him? How do you even think about ensuring that, in the future, the sewage will not enter our groundwater? Scientists have warned against this very harshly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U287	Thanks! I can come to one of my first answers. It is based on the knowledge that the location, the area near the Torma landfill, is the best and has the least possible environmental risks. A hundred percent can never guarantee anything, and that's why there's been surveillance. I didn't do these burials, and that's why I can't give you any more judgment than just say what I've seen from somewhere, I don't know about the Delfi portal from pictures or any comments on Facebook. Of course, in the absence of all the circumstances you mentioned, the situation would have been much better. In other words, the first experience came from making mistakes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U288	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U289	Thank you! Dear Minister of the Environment, If the Board of the Riigikogu decided to send this question to you, rather than to the Minister for Rural Affairs, whose sphere of activity, I believe, is at least three and a half of the four questions asked here, and you agreed to answer that question, it was somehow amazing to hear your answer to the third question which you referred to the Veterinary and Food Board. Wouldn't your officials have received an adequate response from the neighboring ministry to this question, too, so that it would have been complete? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U290	Thanks! The Minister of the Environment could have made clear all the issues of burying pigs in the storm and what is happening in the Republic in connection with the swine plague, as well as in the veterinary and food administration area, and I could have given you the perfect answer. I missed this opportunity. Maybe it'll be better sometime.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U291	For the Steinogram, I must say that it is not the Riigikogu's board that decides who gets the question, but the members of the Riigikogu who wrote the question. Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U292	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! The storm landfill is a relatively new landfill and its reception act clearly identifies environmental risks as well as the need for control. The plagues were buried quite close to it. It is quite clear that there is and there was an environmental threat. Now there's surveillance. Since there is a risk of contamination, which can reach up to Peipsi, because the entire flow area goes that way, shouldn't monitoring, how to say, tighten it? And the information should be more accessible. Can this be arranged?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U293	Thanks! There are certainly costs involved in monitoring. I think it should be optimal that these wells are chosen wisely. In the sense that they should really be relevant, i.e. monitor the direction of groundwater movements, etc., and above all be in the immediate vicinity. For this simple reason, it makes sense, theoretically, that if something happens, it should be felt in the nearest wells first. I therefore think that it is possible to correct the existing monitoring plan, although I believe that the monitoring plan is reasonable, except perhaps that the "active wells" share could be increased there, because there are some wells that are not used at all for water purposes. I guess these things are gonna be straightened out. Of course, environmental information must be available; it is also self-evident for me. However, this may lead to the following sad conclusions, which may not be related at all to the burial of pigs, but actually means that the water consumption of people in the region is poor. But we wouldn't have gotten that knowledge if we hadn't been monitoring pigs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U294	I understand Rein Ratas has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U295	After the hammer hit, there's a free microphone. Please, George Adams!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U296	Honourable representatives of the people! Before the summer break of Riigikogu meetings, I started a series of free microphone calls, the content of which has been such that I have tried to understand the reasons why the Riigikogu, in my opinion, in the meantime gained the reputation of the rubber stamp in the eyes of the Estonian public. It is certainly not a single and dominant cause; there are many. Now, if I'm going to look at them from now on, I'm probably going to have this show until at least spring. I wondered at the beginning whether I would proceed with the work of the committee or with the topics of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure. However, I decided to turn the Riigikogu to the subjects of the Rules of Procedure. I think there are quite a few shortcomings in the Rules of Procedure. The question of the institution of the group needs perhaps the longest discussion, whether it is necessary in this form or what it should be. But it's a long topic that doesn't run out one at a time. But let's start with some of the simplest things that we have every day ahead of us. Namely, what rights we members of the Riigikogu have in working in this Chamber, regardless of where we belong or from which list we have been selected here. In general, the problem is whether we are actually equal in our rights or whether some of us are more equal than others. I have a feeling it's part of the way it is. Acting in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, we have, or should at least have, five fundamental rights. I'm trying to list them. The first is that if there is a draft in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, we should all have the right to work with it, i.e. there should be reasonable time and opportunities to read and obtain material about the texts. It'll take time. This right may have been least violated, even though there have been cases where, for example, a coalition of government has rushed unreasonablely. The second right is that there will be a small draft initiated by the Free Party Group in the proceedings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs tomorrow. We believe that there should be a right to ask questions to the rapporteur when there is a presentation under the item on the agenda. It is a matter of how many of them can be presented and whether, for example, certain spiteful questions can be eliminated. But basically there should be a right to ask questions. We discovered one place in the Home and Working Procedures Act and there are probably more where the right of members of the Riigikogu to ask questions to the rapporteur has been violated. When negotiations are opened in the Riigikogu, I believe that all members of the Riigikogu should be entitled to participate. This right has now been manifestly violated by the fact that, in first reading procedures, this right has been withdrawn from the members of the Riigikogu as if the political groups were speaking entirely for their members. It's not like that. I've had two cases in the last three weeks, where I think I've been talking about a very relevant story about this very voicepiece during the first reading. But I did not have the right to do so as a member of the Riigikogu. My group was so kind because they... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U297	There's no right to ask for extra time, that's five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U298	There's no extra time. I'll take it next time. I am now finishing up on such a point that our right to express our opinion in the negotiations is not only a first reading problem, but also a third reading problem, in the 12 years between them, if I have not been a member of the Riigikogu, as well as crossed out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-12_U299	Thank you, George, for your understanding. There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 21.44 p.m.
