ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-02_U1	Good morning, dear fellows. Good Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the first working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. There's no call. Let's move on to the messages. There's quite a few of them. After the plenary session, the meeting of the following parliamentary groups will take place in this Chamber: Eesti-Swedishi, convened by Valdo Randpere; Eesti-Niiles Kross; Eesti-Portugal, convened by Aivar Sõerd; Eesti-Liedu, convened by Aivar Sõerd; Eesti-Latvia, convened by Mailis Reps; Estonia-Norway, convened by Mailis Reps; Eesti-Korea, convened by Mailis Reps; Eesti-Moldova, convened by Deniss Boroditš; Eesti-Kõrgõzstan, convened by Deniss Boroditš; Eesti-Valgevene, convened by Valeri Korb; Eesti-Azerbaidžaan, convened by Mikhail Korb; Eesti-Russia, convened by Igor Gräzin; Estonia-Käzin, convened by Ländyaine Randpere, convened by Valeri Korb. The Riigikogu Board looks forward to taking a very active part in the founding meeting of all 14 parliamentary groups. Today, not only do we intend to convene and set up parliamentary groups, but there will also be start-up meetings of support groups today. These support groups include: the Estonian Housing Association Support Group, the convener is Dmitri Dmitriev; the Reforming Tibetan Support Group, the Convener is Andres Herkel; the Support Group for Finno-Ugric Peoples, the Convener is Laine Randjärv; the Peipsivere Support Group, the Convener is Terje Trei; the Orthodox Envoy Group, the Convener is Vladimir Velman; the Disability Support Group, the Convener is Monika Haukanõm. We also expect active participation from these groups. Now I'm asking for your help and we're doing a presence check! 92 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 9. Let's move on to today's agenda. There are no points at the moment. Today's trial is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.03 a.m.
