ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin an extraordinary session, convened in accordance with § 68 of the Constitution and § 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure Act, at the time and agenda requested by the Government of the Republic on a proposal from the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U2	But first of all, because of the resignation of a member of the Riigikogu, Edgar Savisaare, Peeter Ernits became a member of the Riigikogu from 6 August. Next, we will listen to Peter Ernits' oath. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U3	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U4	Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. The Government of the Republic has a wish for this. Please, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching eight draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Foreign Professional Qualifications Act and related other laws. Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Education and Science, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Public Information Act and related amendments to other laws. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Third, the draft chemicals law. Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act and other laws. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases and other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by Rannar Vasiliev, Minister of Health and Labour, when dealing with these two draft laws. Sixth, the draft law amending the Waste Act and the Environmental Charges Act. Seventh, the bill to amend the Water Act. Eightth, the bill to amend the Hunting Act. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the processing of these three draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U6	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Clearly, we cannot get over or around the issue of African swine fever. The way in which the dead pigs of the plague were buried in Torma municipality in Jõgeva County and the way in which the lies were involved is unbelievable and depressing. For example, there was a lie about the burial site, as if the pigs were buried in the Torma landfill, to an area under guard, where waste water treatment was also reported to have taken place. The spoiled animal carcasses, however, were simply driven into a single hole where the impregnation water is not collected. There is, in fact, only one step forward until the sewage enters groundwater. What all this may have involved, was pointed out by Ago Vilo in Äripäev, saying that if the water is not collected or cleaned at the place where the carcasses are buried, the discharge of the sewage into the groundwater is absolutely unavoidable and it is only a matter of time before the polluted groundwater reaches a water abstraction site. He, by the way, stressed that the destruction of carcasses lasts for years, but the pollution remains in the water for centuries. So there's been a lot of lies around this thing. Also lied about the depth of the burial, it was claimed that it was buried several metres deep. If that had been the case, pig carcasses wouldn't have fouled up. There have also been false claims about covering with chlorine lime. We have a lot of questions. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I will report an inquiry to Minister for the Environment Marko Pomerants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U8	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U9	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Free Party Group, I have to hand over a draft amending the Income Tax Act. This bill has a pretty long history. The principles of income tax reform were developed by the Economic Panel of the Free Party even before the Riigikogu elections. These issues were also raised in the coalition negotiations, but they were not understood by the partners, especially by the biggest party in the negotiations. In June, we tabled proposals with the same content to increase the tax-free minimum to EUR 400 per month in three years and to raise the income tax rate to 24%, and we also did so in the course of the procedure of the so-called draft cluster law. These proposals were not supported by the Committee on Monetary Affairs at the time and could not be voted in a large Chamber. In the meantime, the situation has become much more hopeful in our eyes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party have expressed their support for the same principles and reached the same conclusions on the need for tax reform as the Free Party. That is why we are now presenting a separate draft amendment to the Income Tax Act in the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U10	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Centre Party Group, I would like to address the question to the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus. The inquiry concerns the spread of African swine fever in Estonia. Today, all of continental Estonia is covered by essentially restricted zones due to African swine fever. Estonian pig farmers sense that the government is indifferent to stopping the spread of the plague. Unlike Latvia, for example, where it has managed to put a stop to the spread of the plague, Estonia has failed to do so. In Latvia, only more than 600 domestics have been destroyed, and we have reached 16,000 in one month. Why don't we learn from our southern neighbors? The cash flow of pig farmers is shrinking, and a large number of pig farmers are planning to close down. Farming pigs, however, employs thousands of people in rural areas where work is already scarce. A number of pig farmers have murmured about the activities of the Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse and the Director General of the Veterinary and Food Board Ago Pärtel, because the situation has not been properly assessed and acted at the level of their tasks, thus causing unprecedented damage to Estonian pig farming. For all these reasons, we are asking five questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U12	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U13	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of seven members of the Free Party Group, I will present a written question to Mr Pevkur, Minister for the Interior, on the issue of refugees. The debate on refugee issues has suddenly taken an emotional and sometimes destructive form because of poorly organised government communication and populist panic sinks. If there are no clear answers to the questions and a clear perspective for people, then the fears of refugees can be amplified and strengthened. We are deeply concerned about the emergence in Estonian society of dangerous anti-European fears and discrediting fears. In addition to receiving and integrating the agreed number of refugees, it is the responsibility of the government to explain to society and the public the nature of the problem, its ways and ways of solving it and its international context. In order to allow the Riigikogu and the public to analyse the issue of refugees in essence and find the best solutions for Estonia in the situation that has developed in the European Union, we ask the Minister of the Interior to answer twelve questions. What, how and when is happening in Estonia and elsewhere in the European Union? Does the Estonian Government have an overview of European experience and studies carried out there? If so, what are we going to apply from all of this, and what are the forecasts for future activities and scenarios?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U14	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U15	The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party will present to the Minister for Rural Affairs an inquiry into the swine plague. Although two questions have already been put here today on this subject, the questions overlap in part and do not overlap in part, the fact is that we believe that this is a delayed and inadequate response to the problem. We therefore have five questions to which we want not demagogic but specific answers. These questions concern the field of the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the activities of the authorities under its authority. I'll report on the inquiry. We hope to receive adequate answers to these questions soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U16	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U17	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of ten members of the Riigikogu, I will report an inquiry to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Within this framework, we can discuss Greece here, we can also talk about swine fever and the Government of the Republic or, to put it more precisely, the information policy of the Government of the Republic. A certain event has recently aroused controversy because it is said to exist as the official position of the Estonian state and it is spoken of, but what it is, there is no idea of it on some issues. I'd like to know who's working on that opinion. What happens if the position of the Government of the Republic does not coincide with, for example, the position of half the members of the Riigikogu or the position of associations of local governments or doctors? How is this formal position passed on to working media associations, such as the ERR, and why sometimes it arrives in time, but sometimes this whole process stretches very long? This is a very interesting subject and we hope to develop it here with the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U18	On behalf of the board, I have adopted nine draft laws and five inquiries. If they meet the requirements of the Home and Working Procedures Act, we will refer them to the procedure. I've got a message, too. After the extraordinary session, the opening meeting of the Estonian-Iran parliamentary group will take place in this Chamber. It's called Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 92 members of the Riigikogu are present, there is no 9. On the agenda of the extraordinary session, the Government of the Republic has proposed to us, but § 52 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu states that we need to set a working timetable. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Riigikogu Board to work without a break until the agenda is exhausted. But before that, Igor Gräzin, who probably has a procedural question, will be heard.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U19	[[The microphone's not working.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U20	Please, can we give the microphone to Igor Gräzin?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U21	[[The microphone's not working.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U22	George Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U23	Dear Chairman, I am willing to give my microphone to Mr Gräzini.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U24	But I don't agree, because Gräzin has to have his own microphone. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I'll take the manager's break five minutes. Help the vigilante turn on the microphone. We'll continue in five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U25	I apologise to Riigikogu member Igor Gräzin for not being able to set up a microphone on his desk immediately! I hope now he's got a microphone working, and the vigilante can say his procedural word. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U26	Since the memorandum on which the draft is based is contrary to Article 125 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which excludes debt payments made by some countries for others, and since the explanatory memorandum is also against Article 136 (3), which does not even concern the conditions set out in the explanatory memorandum, I think that we should not discuss this document today. As a true European and a true patriot of the European Union, I propose that a draft be taken off the agenda, contrary to the fundamental principles of the European Union. Well, Eiki, what do you say to that? [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U27	The extraordinary session has been convened on a proposal from the Government of the Republic and on a scheduled agenda by the Government of the Republic. Your proposal does not comply with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act. George Adams, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U28	I also have a procedural question, Mr. Chairman. In particular, point 2 of the Decision states that this Decision shall enter into force upon signature. I guess it's forgotten who the signatory is. Is that you, Mr President, signing all 101 MPs or just the group presidents? Or is there another person assigned to sign it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U29	According to the law, the signatory is the President of the Riigikogu. (J.Adams' question from the floor: "But in that case, why do we have to discuss this...? " Laugh in the hall.) This is also a procedural issue, because indeed, the procedure for dealing with decisions on the stability of the euro is somewhat different from that of other decisions of the Riigikogu. We'll get to the trial in a little while. But now we still need to confirm the work schedule. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Riigikogu Board to work without a break until the agenda is exhausted. Please take a stand and vote. 66 members of the Riigikogu were in favour, 13 against and 6 abstentions. The work schedule is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U30	Now we are going to the debate on the item. The procedure for processing the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Accepting the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic" is set out in § 1182 of the Home and Working Procedures Act. First the presentation by the Minister of Finance, then the presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. All members of the Riigikogu can ask two oral questions to the rapporteurs; everyone can then ask two questions. This will be followed by negotiations in which only the representatives of the political groups participate under § 98 (5) of the Rules of Procedure Act. After that, the amendments will be examined if they are there and there will be a final vote. Secretary of Finance Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U31	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! As I am standing here today, today and tomorrow, the Heads of State or Finance Ministers of a number of euro area countries are facing their Parliament to discuss together the task that Greece is facing and to assess the economic programme described in the Memorandum of Understanding. The Greek Parliament approved the tasks and conditions set out in the Memorandum in the vote on 14 August. The confirmation received that the Greek State and the people would be in the process of implementing this programme was a necessary precondition for any progress to be made in the light of the events that had taken place this year. The votes in the Greek Parliament on 15 and 22 July also provide additional assurance on previous preconditions. Today, you have to decide whether Estonia will give its consent and whether I can approve the Memorandum tomorrow in the ESM Board of Governors. In the view of the government, and now also the finance ministers of the euro area, there is sufficient basis in the Memorandum of the Third Programme for Greece to get the Greek economy back on track. But now a little more about the programme negotiations, their content and their impact on Estonia. The negotiators, i.e. the institutions, the European Commission, the European Central Bank, the IMF and the ESM, had been given a very clear mandate to negotiate with the Greek Government. This was the framework agreed on 12 July at the Eurozone Leaders' Summit, which also included Greece, which contained a number of preconditions. The memorandum that awaits your opinion today has been put together in accordance with these instructions. Before reaching the issue of Greece, I would like to focus more generally on the resolution capacity of the European Union and the euro area. Despite the setbacks in Greece, economic programmes designed to help countries in financial difficulties have been generally effective. Let us look back at the experiences of countries such as Latvia, Spain, Portugal and Ireland. All these countries have received grant loans to cope with a deep crisis. In a situation where there was no or extremely high level of market financing in these countries, the programme's grant facility provided an opportunity to reduce imbalances in public finances and the economy. The crises were thus overcome with minor losses if this had happened if these countries had been left alone to bear all the difficulties of adaptation. Today, these countries have successfully exited the programme and are among the countries in the euro area with the greatest growth. The implementation of the programme will also go to Cyprus with good results. A year ago, in August, the same was true of Greece when the last review of the programme was ahead. Unfortunately, populism was defeated then, and positive developments stopped or returned, and closing the programme in 2015 became impossible. The third aid programme under discussion today has not been reached simply. After all, the Greek state, politicians and the people considered very seriously whether, instead of the reforms agreed in the previous programme, there could be a simpler and more painful way to overcome the economic difficulties. I used the word 'populistism' primarily because it has become clear in practice that there was no such route. The third aid programme represents an opportunity for Greece to return to a path that led to the need to introduce capital controls, queues at ATMs and disruptions in the functioning of the economy. Greece needs to pursue comprehensive reforms, not reverse them. The arrival of this understanding is also marked by the operational action of the Greek Parliament and the Government in July-August. The institutions shall assess that the agreed programme will allow the necessary changes to be implemented in Greece. Of course, the Greek state and the people will have to deal with it, and there is reason to think about it. In addition to the fact that Greece has returned to a policy that is expected to produce results after a misguided journey, the granting of a new opportunity by other euro area countries is also linked to the desire to confirm the irreversibility of the euro area as a whole. At the same time, it is clear that the euro area is in a significantly better position than in 2010 to cope with the negative scenario. Programmes are always linked to conditions: before reforms and only then money. The same was true for the second programme, the conditions of which were largely respected until August 2014. Then the reforms ended and the loans from the euro area ended. The loss of confidence in Greece started there and grew to such an extent by July 2015, that Greece has now had to accept an unprecedented list of preconditions, even before a new programme was negotiated. By 15 July, the Greek Parliament adopted laws on VAT, pensions, statistics and budget rules, to which the reform of civil procedure and the transposition of the Bank Resolution Directive were added on 22 July. Only then were the Member States ready to authorise the institutions to negotiate. We will add here a list of more than 40 acts and actions that Greece had to approve before the first payment of a possible new programme. This was done by a vote in the Greek Parliament on 14 August, or last week. The objectives of the programme are to restore the capacity of Greece's public finances, implement reforms in support of growth, employment and investment, restore financial stability and thoroughly reform public administration. The seriously deteriorating economic situation at the beginning of the year has led to the first steps towards the primary balance targets being brought down before the 3.5% surplus reached in 2018. Achieving a deficit of 0.25% this year also means that Greece will have to make a strong effort in a deteriorating economic situation. Reform of the VAT system, removal of exemptions from the tax system as a whole, achievement of new quality in tax collection and implementation of reforms to make the pension system sustainable are essential to achieving the fiscal objectives. Greece must certainly contribute to the new programme itself, and privatisation will play an important role here. The privatisation fund has been set for October. This fund can avoid previous failures. The focus of the programme's activities, as well as funding, is clearly on the first half of the programme. This does not mean, of course, that Greece's tasks are smaller in the second half of the programme. In the course of the inspections, these tasks should certainly be extended to replace, in addition to or less successful measures. Three years is a relatively long time. In part, therefore, Greece's financing needs, and hence the programme's volume, are between August 2018 and EUR 86 billion. Of this, 54 billion are repayments of earlier loans and interest payments, most of which go to the public sector. From the new programme, EUR 25 billion will be earmarked for the Greek financial sector to reduce the capital needs associated with the sharp deterioration of the situation and to support the restoration of banks' lending capacity. The first payment of the programme is planned at EUR 26 billion, of which EUR 10 billion will immediately go into ESM bonds for the recapitalisation of the Greek banking sector, EUR 13 billion will be in the form of a loan covering a number of debt liabilities, and the remaining 3 billion will be disbursed in tranches once the agreed interim targets have been met. The size of the IMF's financial participation in the programme is clear from the review of the programme in October. The weighted average maturity of ESM loans will be 32 years. It has been asked that, as Greece has a high debt burden, whether and how Greece will manage to service this debt and whether it needs to write off loans. Yeah, that load's big. However, the terms of the loans granted to Greece are already favourable, which means that the debt servicing burden is significant, but not exceptional in international comparison and can be achieved if the programme is implemented. Possible mitigation measures will be considered, but nominal write-off of debt is excluded. Estonia has said that we are not willing to write down the debt in whole or in part. It has been asked whether the loan means new obligations for Estonia. No. The loan to Greece from the ESM does not increase our liabilities; Estonia does not have to pay anything in addition to it, nor does it have to give new guarantees. We have assumed our responsibilities in the Riigikogu on 30 August 2012 by ratifying the ESM Treaty. This means that our participation in the ESM will be EUR 1.3 billion, of which EUR 148.8 million will be paid by 2014. Once again, these commitments do not increase due to the ESM loan. Of course, the question is whether the third aid programme increases or reduces the risks of the state's assets with Greece. These risks exist and not in the sense that the reforms described in the Memorandum of Understanding will not work. I believe these reforms are working. The International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank and the European Commission, together with the ESM, have jointly negotiated with Greece, using the best analytical and financial expertise, concluding that these reforms will ensure the expected result if they are implemented. I appreciate that, by acting under the agreed programme, Greece has a better chance of getting on its feet economically than by giving up or letting things go their own way. The risks posed by Greece's potential unwillingness to implement reforms can be mitigated by allocating aid only as a follow-up to concrete actions. Honourable Riigikogu! I believe that the Memorandum of Economic Policy in Greece provides a good basis for the development of the Greek state and the economy and thus contributes to the overall stability of the euro area. The government's recommendation is to agree with the draft memorandum drawn up under the leadership of the institutions, to which the Greek Parliament has also given its consent. I would also like to highlight the elements relating to the programme which give reason to believe that we are getting closer to the solution to the Greek debt problem. These are the primary surplus set out in the programme and the ambitious package of reforms supporting it, as well as the Greek people's perception that there is no alternative to change. Although the price was high, it may be that Syriza's populists should be grateful for achieving this. We have on the table today the decisions of the Greek Parliament and the expression of its will, which is a solution approved by the European institutions, which ultimately also has the approval of the governments of the Member States of the euro area. Let us not go into the extremes of populism during the forthcoming debate. Let us note that Estonia has clearly set its goal in the European Union and its core, the euro area. You cannot naively imagine Estonia as an isolated island in this world. The Greek saga is certainly a lesson for Europe as a whole. The euro area was created and the euro was introduced in the belief that all parties would comply with the agreements and comply with the rules. The shortcomings in this respect, the credibility and long-term mechanisms of action of the euro and the management of risks must continue to be addressed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U32	Questions for the Minister. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U33	Thank you. Minister of Finance! You mentioned in your speech that you do not support the write-off of Greek debts. At the same time, measures to mitigate Greece's current debt will be considered. Yesterday, the news agency Bloomberg released a quote from Angela Merkel. Merkel assured her German colleagues that, in order for the IMF to join the new Greek aid package, she was ready to accept the conditions of Christine Lagarde to forgive Greece for part of its old debts. What kind of mitigation measures are you prepared to accept?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U34	Thank you. Changes can be either reprofiling or restructuring. Restructuring involves the write-off of debt in whole or in part. Estonia is very clear that we do not agree with the write-off of the debt. We've said it, too. Possible reprofiling, i.e. a possible review of loan interest rates or an extension of the term, is definitely the subject of negotiations. If debt sustainability improves by two, three or four years due to the deferral of debt payment, it will certainly be a negotiating point. Write-off of nominal value, Estonia has said this clearly, we are not in favour.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U35	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U36	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, The attitude towards Greece and the Greek Government, specifically the Prime Minister of Greece, is very different across the European Union. I believe that most consider Prime Minister Tsipra to be like a rake of the European Union, who also uses not the purest means to achieve his goals. According to the Greeks, he is probably the clever Hercules, who allows the stables of Augeias to be cleansed by the other peoples of the European Union, not by the Greeks. Tell me, please, how, then, will this European Union, which has a very broad view of the Greek situation, agree to say yes unanimously tomorrow and the day after tomorrow that the European Union will support Greece's third aid programme, if only in a few countries, such as Estonia, Germany, Malta and a few others, this decision is taken in Parliament, some at a different level.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U37	Thank you. I will once stop at the levels of procedure in the various countries. A true story, when Estonia joined the ESM, it was agreed that each new program will be the topic of the discussion of the so-called large hall. That is why today this issue is in this Chamber. There are not many such countries: Estonia, Germany, Austria and some others. In some countries, this is the so-called ELAK issue, the European Commission for the Affairs of the European Union. In Finland, the decision has been made at their "grand committee" level. In some countries this is a government issue, Latvia and Lithuania have now decided to participate in the ESM. In some countries it is the responsibility of finance ministers; there the state has said that commitments have been made when joining the ESM and that the management of the assets will be later. This is the case in Slovenia, for example. There are different levels in different countries. At the euro area finance ministers' meeting in the Eurogroup or in the working groups at the level of senior public officials, there has been no indication that one or the other euro area country is currently blocking the decision. However, all decisions certainly have an important role to play in all countries' participation in the decision-making mechanism, as this is a unanimous decision. So each country has an important role to play in making this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U38	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U39	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, Can you name a couple of or three of the sanctions foreseen for Greece if it does not pay its debt in 2022? We know that since 2010 he did not move in the direction of reforming his tax system or pension system. Why, then, do we now have the hope that he will really pay off his debt?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U40	I think that in monetary relations, the best measure is'money against reforms'. Firstly, in order to give any money, the other party must implement the reforms. This is the first measure we use in decision-making. Once we have given money and the process has started and the reforms have started, we must have the knowledge of the revenue generated by these measures for the countries, now I am thinking of Greece, in the past these countries were Cyprus, Spain, Ireland. These are our guarantees. If reforms are carried out, each reform can be accompanied by a specific financial dimension, which represents either an increase in revenue or a reduction in expenditure. These are our guarantees.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U41	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U42	Thank you, manager. Minister of Finance! Of the total EUR 86 billion of the programme, 54 billion will go to creditors and bond buyers, whose liabilities will be paid and who will receive their money. The commitments go from those countries that participate in the ESM. I therefore ask who will cover the remaining liabilities of Greece. You have stated in the explanatory memorandum that there will be no additional impact on the Estonian budget. How do you comment on that? Private funds get their money and the ESM, or public sector, will have to bear the extra burden!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U43	Thank you. You didn't listen to my introduction when I spoke at length about the repayment of the loan, including mainly the public sector. I have explained this before in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but I will go over it again. The biggest loser in this so-called Greek saga, if you could say so, has been the private sector. In 2012, 50% of the nominal value was written off by the private sector. Later, when the existing loan was replaced by new notes, the nominal value decreased further. Finally, the private sector lost up to 75% of its value in 2012. It was a reality. However, the public sector did not suffer such losses. If you look at the repayment of EUR 54 billion provided for during this programming period, the debt plus interest, you will note that it is not the private sector that receives the money, but the IMF and the European Central Bank. They're the ones who get the most money. We are ourselves parties to the IMF and to the European Central Bank. Moreover, this aid programme is immediately subject to interest, immediately from the date on which the loan was taken over. Already, an additional EUR 1 billion has been calculated over three years for the management of this loan, the third programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U44	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I want to know what the objective of the European Stability Mechanism is. Is it aimed at ensuring stability throughout the euro area, which, if necessary, is ready to assist countries, or is it a personal package of one country, or Greece? Yes, we know that EUR 40 billion has also gone to Spain, and the tip-tip has gone to Cyprus. These countries are able to manage their commitments; we cannot say that about Greece. We are now talking about EUR 86 billion in this package, with almost 142 billion already gone through the EFSF. In addition, the liquidity assistance received from the European Central Bank, etc., can be discussed. No country has received so much international assistance. How long? And what is the purpose of the ESM?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U46	Thank you. The ESM, like the International Monetary Fund, the European Investment Bank and the EBRD, is an international financial institution and is subject to international public law. The specific objective of the creation of the ESM is to provide support to members in serious financial difficulties under strict economic policy conditions in the form of loans or other appropriate forms, where this is indispensable to support the financial stability of the euro area as a whole and its countries. The question of why Estonia was participating in the ESM was also raised in 2012. Participation in the ESM is a guarantee to Estonia that euro area countries in difficulties do not jeopardise the financial stability of the euro area as a whole and thus do not jeopardise Estonia's financial stability. God forbid we'd ever have to turn to one or another of our own safety nets.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U47	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U48	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! You said that restructuring is impossible, but there is room for reprofiling the debt, i.e. mitigating the conditions. That is right, because it needs to be done to ensure that debt is sustainable. That's what the IMF says. The loan of the second Greek aid programme has been extended, ten years of grace leave, including interest leave, and repayment of the loan will only start in 2022. We have now heard that the average time for the repayment of the new programme loan is 32 years, but the payment of interest will begin immediately. Where's the relief? When we talk about basic repayment leave, how much repayment leave and what kind of interest relief do we give if interest is still at a very low level?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U49	Thank you. A very good, clear and specific question. Not only is Greece's third programme, it is also Greece's first programme, where Estonia did not participate and under which bilaterally, in cooperation with the countries, loans of nearly EUR 80 billion were granted. There is also the second programme in Greece, which takes place through the EFSF. All these programmes, through their payments, actually guarantee Greece such a level that it is sustainable in terms of debt payment. It is also possible to revise the current payment terms of previous programmes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U50	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Estonia has always behaved quite the opposite of Greece when it comes to borrowing. We are very modest and conservative. Have you, at the ministerial meeting, made a statement that perhaps it would be more reasonable to exclude Greece from the euro zone? Nothing is certain, and suddenly there will be a third, fourth and fifth aid package. Estonia behaves in a completely different way than Greece.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U52	Thank you. I thank you for recognising Estonia's financial capacity and the decisions made in Estonia over the years! This shows that this clear right-wing policy, which has been driven by Estonian governments, has been right. I really thank you for the fact that you also consider it necessary to raise this issue when you are in the opposition. It's a pleasure. If we look at Greece, we will certainly have questions as to whether this money will give rise to risks, whether reforms are justified and if Greece does not fulfil these obligations, or if this programme does not start, we expect it to start, then what are the alternatives? Answers. Do we consider possible structural reforms to be right? Yes, we do. I do. I think they will help to improve the situation. I think that if the retirement age is pushed to 67 years of age, the early retirement system, VAT exemptions and farmer benefits will be abolished by exaggerating, but it could still be said that half of the population are farmers because of them, it will help to ensure the sustainability of the country. Again, will Greece implement these decisions? Here is the guarantee of'money against reforms'. As we note, in the second programme, more than EUR 12 billion were not paid because Greece did not fulfil its last promises. Consequently, the money was not transferred either. Your question was what will happen then and whether it has been discussed that Greece should leave the euro zone. There will be no discussion on this today. All Member States are working to get Greece back to normal countries that keep their costs under control and are able to pay off past and future loans at one point. In order to do so, Greece needs to implement those reforms, which have been partly decided and which still need to be implemented within three years. If he doesn't, he won't be able to pay back the money, and then there won't be a new loan.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U53	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U54	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of Finance! It seems that this loan still has rather loose conditions. The interest on debt is only 1%, which means that in fact, this debt is moving in the direction of cancellation. Besides, it is completely unknown when the repayments will start, you did not answer that question. I ask again when Greece will make the first repayment of this aid package on what date.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U55	Thank you. You cannot ask again because you only have the first question, you will not be able to ask anything again. But I'm going to tell you very specifically. The loan to Greece has a maturity of 32.5 years, which is an average maturity. Interest is the borrowing rate on the ESM market. ESM is a category AAA financial institution with the lowest possible interest rate plus 10 basis points or 0,1%. The loan is granted in several instalments and with different deadlines. The latest loan payments will be in three years' time, in August 2018, given the full length of this programme. The exact schedule will be set when the status of the other participants in the programme has been finally established, mainly by the IMF. This will take place in October of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U56	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U57	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, In your answers, you mentioned that Greece has agreed to raise the retirement age. Hopefully he will, as Estonia has done. However, the average old-age pension gap between Estonia and Greece is still multiple. Has Estonia requested, solidarity and guaranteeing payments from Greece, that Greece would also agree to reduce its average old-age pension so that it would be equal to Estonia's, i.e. in solidarity at the same level? If it hasn't been done, then why? Secondly, why is this amount of assets so small? Greece is sufficiently early to provide a higher guarantee. Why is the amount of assets in this fund that goes to ensure possible payments the way it is? Why is it not much higher because a much larger amount is needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U58	Thank you. First of all, about pensions. The average pension for Greeks has clearly decreased during this period. It was already part of the second programme that was implemented. At the same time, there is still a lot of work to be done. True, raising the retirement age to 67, different early retirement options, special pensions, supplementary pensions, guaranteed pension rates, all of this will be reviewed in the current process. As far as assets are concerned, it is interesting that you asked why there are so few. The IMF even says that perhaps this requirement is too ambitious to be so quickly so much. Perhaps one billion euros would mean moving at a good pace, because no one wants to make a quick sale, nor does it make sense. The negotiators, as well as Greece itself, have calculated that over three years Greece will have the capacity to realise assets for EUR 6 billion. This six billion is not taken from the air, but is very clearly behind the list of ports, airports and other public assets that are to be realised during this period (the transport company TRAINOSE Rosco, the gas transmission system operator Desfa, etc.). There is a list of assets that are intended to be realised and there is an expected price. There has also been talk of another EUR 50 billion linked to a possible future in October, the so-called Privatisation Fund. In the future, this fund will provide for the privatisation of Greece's assets in addition to six billion in the three-year cycle. Part of this amount is certainly intended for the recapitalisation of banks and the subsequent sale of banks. The purpose of the State should not be to hold ownership of the four largest banks after the recapitalisation so that the four banks would be State banks. What for? If you are able to bring banks into a normal working rhythm, they develop and trust has recovered, no matter how much time it takes, whether it takes three, four, five or seven years, it makes sense to realize these banks. It is most likely to receive not EUR 25 billion, but certainly more. So, in principle, these are a relatively ambitious programme of six billion intended to be realised over a period of three years.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U59	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U60	Thank you to the manager. Good minister! You seem unreasonably upset. Politicians can ask the same questions again and again if the respondents do not answer. Since this remote control is so often confused and lied to, we still have to ask questions again. On 13 May 2010, your predecessor, Jürgen Ligi, claimed that Estonia would still serve on aid to Greece. It's been five years. As a new Minister of Finance, please explain to us how we have started to serve and how big and where our benefits are.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U61	Thank you. Today we have Plan A. This means that Greece will start reforms on which it itself has taken a decision in the negotiations. Part of this plan has begun to be implemented. Some possible amendments were adopted on 15 July. This was the basis for the opening of negotiations. On 22 July, the measures were adopted, and on 14 August last week, at Parliament's level, there was a long list of preliminary measures and pre-actions. At present, all parties, both euro area countries and Greece themselves, are working on the basis of Plan A, which means that Greece is to return to the financial markets. Like all other countries, Estonia has taken out loans. There's nothing weird about that. We have loans in the briefcase today. Yes, we are the country with the smallest loan portfolio in Europe, but all countries have needed financial support to a greater or lesser extent over time. If the country did not have trust - which Greece does not have - then a safety net has come to the aid. Whether Greece will implement these reforms in the event of a safety net being created is the question that we should be faced with. Will Greece, as a result of these reforms, specifically save costs and increase revenue? That should be the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U62	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. We know that Greece currently has a debt burden of 175% of GDP, and next year it will be a peak of more than 200%. It is hoped that in the next four years it will fall back to 175%, or 26% in total, and around 6.5% per year. Today we are saying that we will increase Greece's loan burden by another EUR 86 billion. But how many percent of the Greek state budget is spent on servicing loans and how do you assess the feasibility of this plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U63	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U64	Thank you. I'm certainly not unreasonably upset. On the contrary, it is my job to give a full answer to all the questions on the basis of my best knowledge and faith. That's what I'm really trying to do with good will. Surely this is not an irritation of any kind. On the contrary, I think that an in-depth dialogue on any issue will give us all the opportunity, especially when it comes to an important decision to take the right decision in the future. That is even when the questioner actually knows what decision he is making and asks questions only for fashion. But when we talk about aid programmes, as has been said, and as I said about the third aid programme, the ESM will actually pass on the loan to Greece at a higher interest rate than it will be able to borrow from the market itself. The AAA provides it with a loan at a specific interest rate and, by continuing to lend, it puts 0.1%, so to speak, to its advantage and then issues the loan at that interest rate. That's the general logic of this safety net. If the country gets into difficulties In some cases, the state is able to obtain money on the market, but it is very expensive: creditors grant loans, but at very high interest rates. It eats a lot of state resources. The safety net helps these moments. After all, there are many examples of countries that have been granted loans. This has contributed to lower interest rates for the State. Yes, he pays it a bonus, this bonus is not very high, but there is still a bonus, and he will be able to return to those countries that are already receiving normal interest loans from the market at some point in time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U65	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U66	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Finance! If we look at the position taken by the leaders of the various countries and institutions on the Greek crisis, we can very clearly see a rather strong hesitation as to whether or not a result will be achieved. However, the granting of aid to Greece is based on faith or hope that the reforms envisaged will be carried out and will also produce results, and Greece will emerge from the crisis. You yourself have said that there will be constant monitoring and, if something happens, if reforms are not carried out, then the support for Greece will also be stopped. What is Plan B then, or is it only then that the new plan is being developed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U67	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U68	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I have this feeling that we did not actually get an answer to the previous question. But I want to make the debate a little wider, I want to talk about democracy. The first thing that really bothers me personally is that the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu was convened late on Saturday night. The invitation was accompanied by English material. Some of these materials were received only yesterday at the committee meeting, and they were also in English. This is, in my opinion, a real example of how the government puts the Riigikogu in front of the fact, or makes it a rubber stamp. I don't think that's normal, and I'm asking for your assessment. I also ask for your assessment that the Greek people voted down a package of aid six weeks ago, the conditions of which were considerably less stringent, while the Greek Government betrayed its people and agreed to a new package of aid. Yesterday in the Commission, we discussed Greek VAT rates, the amount of defence expenditure, how the Greek tax administration should work. Is it democratic that the Estonian Riigikogu deals with the domestic affairs of Greece, even though the Greek people have clearly voted it down?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U69	Thank you. As you will notice, there have been changes over time. The Greek Government also said six weeks ago that these concrete measures should not go any further. Time has shown that there have been changes. The Greek Government has said today that it sees that these measures, and as you have said, they are already much more ambitious, much tougher, must go on. So the Greek Government has said its clear position today. This was an important condition for all Member States to process this programme as national procedures only after Greece itself has said whether it is ready for these changes. Greece has done so.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U70	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! In your report, you used the term "populism" twice or three times. As far as I could understand, you had at least part of the word in any other sense than the three or four meanings that are commonly used in the Estonian press. Would you be so kind as to explain exactly what you think the word 'populistism' means? If you use it, what do you want to express?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U72	Thank you. Such a pleasant and pleasant conversation on what the Minister thinks 'populistism' means and what perhaps other terms mean, we can definitely have in the hall after that. I would save time for all members of the Riigikogu, and I would mainly commit to the memorandum of understanding that has been put on our tables today, and I would discuss whether these reforms will bring success, whether they are meaningful and how to proceed, what opinions are. I'd stick to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U73	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U74	Thank you, manager. Minister of Finance! In your presentation, you described Greece with the word 'populism' and said that Greece has been misguided. Today you are asking for additional support for Greece with the participation of the Estonian state. In my opinion, the memorandum of understanding plan is essentially one step closer to the fact that we are going to pay Greece's debts in the future. Can you confirm that the Estonian person will not have to pay those Greek debts today in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U75	Thank you. If you ask me if the commitments are going to increase, I say no, the commitments are not going to increase. If you ask whether the risk increases as a result of giving money to Greece, then, yes, the risk increases. The least risk is when that money's on the bill, on the ESM account. Then there's only the risk that the ESM management is doing some kind of thing nobody knows about, and that's why the money isn't there anymore. Of course, the euro paid out on each invoice increases the risks. In order to minimise these risks, it is the aim that before the activities and only after the money. But of course, the risks are increasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U76	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Do you not think that if we support this Greek aid programme once again, in 2020, we will need such an aid programme ourselves to ensure all the guarantees that Estonia has provided for the circa for two billion euros?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U78	Thank you. We need to make it clear whether Greece is fulfilling these promises or not. If Greece doesn't keep its promises, we're not gonna make any money. We should decide this for ourselves. We can't be in two places at once. If he keeps his promises, he'll get the money. Then the following question arises for us: Does fulfilling these promises create a situation in which he controls his costs? That's the next question. We assume it will. There is no reason to doubt the opinions of financial analysts. If Greece doesn't keep its promises, then we won't make any extra money.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U79	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U80	Thank you. Minister of Finance! You are about to introduce us to the Memorandum of Understanding, which places certain tasks on Greece. One of them is that, next year, Greece will have to introduce an additional solidarity tax, which will change the income tax of a natural person. It aims to achieve more effective progress in the income tax system from next year. Explain to us how Greece should achieve the progressiveness of the income tax system and why progressive income tax is good.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U81	Thank you. I am even getting more general, I am not taking this as a single question, but I am looking at the various measures that Greece is about to take in the near future. I think it is even more important for us to have a comprehensive picture of the changes that Greece is making. When we talk specifically about taxes, it is certainly important that Estonia has also done so, that exceptions are abolished in the VAT system and that any special schemes are better targeted in the future. We, too, have said that there must be targeting and need-basedness. The tax base will be broadened, I am thinking of VAT on gambling and television advertising, as well as income tax itself and VAT exemptions on the islands. I mentioned earlier that the exceptional excise duty on the fuel used by farmers and the special regime for shipping will be abolished. There are a number of packages that will ultimately generate additional revenue for the country in the future. Of course, it is very important to improve the functioning of the tax authorities. Additional powers will be granted to the tax authority, organisational measures will be taken, independence will be enhanced. This tax system, which currently exists in Greece, is very complex and with very large exceptions. This is why there is a situation where taxes are not collected so well and the tax authorities are not working properly. These changes are being made.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U82	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U83	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister of Finance! It was very enjoyable to listen to you when you were asked about progressive income tax, and then the answer came that you could talk about something else. Since it is clear that the Minister of Finance likes to talk about the subject more widely and that there was also talk of faith, I am going to the faith. I believe that our Minister for Finance is a talented person and can look at all the financial policy problems in the future and more broadly. That is why I am asking this question: how will the Greek crisis speed up the inflation of the euro? What is your view of inflation in the euro over the next five years? It should also be one of the measures to help Greece substantially reduce its debt and show solidarity towards it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U84	Thank you. You started by praising your question. It always makes you careful when the opposition starts praising you. But that's it. This question actually has a good background. At present, however, no further measures to accelerate inflation in the euro area have been or have been taken into account in the implementation of the Greek aid programme. If we look at the economy in economic terms, the Greek economy is, I hope, I am not wrong about 2% of the European economy as a whole. This, of course, is perhaps not important in this context. But it can be said in itself that Europe is struggling because inflation is not as high as it might be. More like deflation in some countries. Europe has also made efforts here. It is said that inflation of around 2% could make sense. Please note that Europe has taken decisions at central bank level to channel additional financial resources every month, with a pretty large volume. This is to some extent linked to the desire to revive the economy, and the resulting additional money will certainly provide some inflation percentage. But really, the Greek question has not been discussed in this context.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U85	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In fact, this programme and the conditions that Greece faces are quite harsh. After all, they were still in a pretty good position in the autumn with the previous programme, which was much more lenient. Their primary budget surplus was such that many eurozone countries probably did not even dream of such a thing at the time. But my question is, instead, whether, under the conditions of democratic social organisation, any country is protected from the situation that arose in Greece. In fact, the government that led to the country's rather good budget was chosen there because of the very successful populist campaign, the country fell into poor conditions and now they have to go through very tough reforms in order to get any money for the next loan payments.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U87	Thank you. You started your question backwards, talking about the financial economic situation in Greece. True, in the third quarter of last year, Greece achieved a nominal balance and a primary surplus of almost 3%. Estonia's primary surplus is less than a percentage. In fact, what was done between 2012 and 2014 was impressive. Yeah, the program didn't end, yeah, not all the decisions were completed, yeah, the part that had been agreed and implemented was turned back to top. The answer to the question why this happened lies partly in the very question that Mr Palling put forward. The elections took place on 25 January. No matter how we define the word 'populism', however, whatever the motivation of the decisions ultimately became the party of the oppressive majority, who said that the way that has been done before should not be done and must be done differently. This is what has led Greece to do in a situation where it is today. Of course, no country is protected from wrong decisions, and no Member or Minister can tell anyone that it makes wrong decisions or its ideas are wrong. However, we can fight for our ideas that we propose. I, too, have sometimes felt during the debates in Estonia that the ideas of one party or another will not work if they are actually implemented. Greece is in this sense a good example of how, at some point, they were able to come out of a very deep pit. In 2012, there was a two-digit deficit in their cost-benefit balance, but they were able to achieve a budgetary balance and even a primary surplus by the end of 2014. This meant a lot of changes at the legislative level. However, as you will note, the current programme contains an even more stringent list of measures. There's a reason. In the last half of the year, to be precise, since the fourth quarter of last year, a situation has arisen where the financial situation in Greece has deteriorated very clearly. It has been particularly difficult for the last months, or the last period, when capital controls have come up, the country's entrepreneurial activities have basically stalled, cross-border financing has been difficult, the turnover of local service institutions has gone down, etc. All of this has created a completely different situation in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U88	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U89	[[The microphone's not working, there's no starting point.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U90	You better get over here!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U91	Why do you think Greece works better? In short, today's 20-year-old Greek boys will be Colonels and Generals of the Greek Army in 10 to 15 years' time. That is why today's memorandum reminds me of a historical document, namely the Versailles Peace Treaty. These 35-year-old generals will ask what Europe has humiliated them for, for which they have been despised, the Greeks, which is why all these harsh measures have been imposed on them. We know what ended in Versailles" peace. Recently, I heard two very startling statements. One was that if we do not help Greece, Greece will no longer protect us as a NATO country. The second was that if we don't help Greece today, we'll put all the money on the table tomorrow with cash and a plastic bag. When did this become a condition? I have never voted in favour of taking on any commitments that will result in cash being cashed in if we fail to do so. There hasn't been one in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U92	Although Gräzin's voice was clearer when I was near EKRE, I recall that there is still one minute to ask the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U93	Thank you, good questioner! I haven't been around these stories. It is therefore difficult for me to answer this specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U94	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U95	Thank you. There are two things I have repeated and repeated. We need to look at the structural reforms that Greece has taken on its shoulders and at whether they will improve Greece's future sustainability and help it to control expenditure. These reforms are in the Memorandum of Understanding, which is on your desks today, after all. This is the place we should look at. I think these reforms will help. If you think that reforms in the pension system, the labour market system and the administration of taxes will not help, it is a matter of your faith. I believe in the financial competence that the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission and the Central Bank have negotiated with Greece during these weeks. I have no reason to doubt that if these reforms are implemented, the costs will be under control. Here's the decision-making point. Our additional guarantee can only be that we do not blindly transfer money. We cannot say that, yes, Greece will be lowering the retirement age by 2017 and we will make the transfer to him today. No, far from it, it can't be done. First the actions and then the money comes up. This EUR 86 billion in its entire three-year cycle is divided into parts. It cannot be done that today we are paying all the money and then, in the future, we will see if Greece is implementing the objectives that it has committed itself to achieving. Time has shown that all of this has gone barely. All the more so now we have to be conservative, see if he does, and if he does, he gets financial support.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U96	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U97	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I must, unfortunately, return to my first question. We guarantee the ESM's obligations. The ESM is currently borrowing, issuing bonds and transferring the loan to the debtor. The longer the debtor's obligations to repay the loan are, the higher our risks, because we do not know what the debtor's political situation will be in the future, the more unstable it will be. After all, the ESM itself may not be able to obtain loans on the financial markets as favorably as it is today. We need to know when the debtor will pay back the loan. We heard he was about to pay back the interest. That's great. But when will the debtor start paying back the principal of the loan? If you can't tell the year now, tell me how long it's going to be. Is it five, ten, fifteen, or thirty years?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U98	Thank you. As I said, since the aid programme, the 'exit programme', is three years long, already in October of this year, when there is a first review, it becomes clear whether the ESM is in this programme alone or whether the IMF is in it. In October, it is also clear what period we will be able to start looking at refunds. If we look at another program, we should not forget that the IMF has generally had shorter periods, the ESM has had longer periods. In October, it will be locked, fixed at the first inspection, and then it will be clear what kind of leave can and must be given in order to maintain the sustainability of the debt. This is very important in terms of the sustainability of debt. Today it is clear that the interest payments on the 32-year loan start immediately, there will be no grace period, and it is clear what the interest rate is.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U99	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U100	Thank you to the manager. Good minister! Unfortunately, you did not answer the questions of two good colleagues, Igor Gräzini and Kadri Samson. I'll reprogram them. Firstly, on what basis do you believe that Greece will not reverse these reforms after the reforms have been implemented? In Greek history, it has also been common practice to nationalise assets. What is your faith based on, and is there an analysis or a guarantee here? Secondly, why are you calling on Greece for progressive income tax, but in Estonia you are promoting uniform taxation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U101	Thank you. Of course, as your colleague, Kalle Palling, pointed out in his question, the one who specifically manages the country plays a very important role. It is possible to populistly lead the country towards the abyss if the costs go out of control. We can see that this has happened by now. If you ask whether there will be such an opportunity in the future, then in a democratic country the power is in the hands of the people. Of course, it is possible that, in some number of X years' time, there will be a party in power saying that they will raise labour taxes to 50%, so that every euro that a person earns will give 50 cents to the country, because the country is smarter and knows what to do with this money. These are the places of decision-making for the people themselves. Of course, these risks are always up.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U102	Jaak Madison. (Interjection by Jaanus Kariladi: "Sorry, one question about progressive income tax has not been answered by the respondent!")
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U103	You ask, I answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U104	Good ambassadors, you ask questions, the minister answers questions. Just as you ask questions within the limits of your skills and knowledge, the minister will also answer you within the limits of your skills and knowledge. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U105	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Today, Martin Armstrong, an economist in the United States, predicted a new crisis in the euro area by autumn. I would point out that this person has successfully predicted most of the global financial crises over the last 20 years. He has one very good saying: "Life is like Shakespeare's play, played over and over again, only the characters change. " The main character of the previous aid package in this room was Jürgen Ligi, who swore that the investment would be profitable and we would expect revenue from Greece. Today, you're the main character. In Greece, power, as God guides, is changing and there is no political stability at all. Really, I can believe one thing, you can believe another, but faith must be based on something, some assumptions or examples of history. Our faith is based on real examples of what happened in Greece over the last year. What is the basis for your conviction that Greece is fulfilling these promises and successfully implementing the reforms?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U106	Thank you. I'm not showing lending in a positive light, I'm trying to show it in an adequate light. I'm also pointing out the real risks, and I've told you that when money moves out of the ESM account, the risk increases. Count on it, the risk increases! I've said it. I am not speaking in a positive light; I am talking adequately about how this particular agreement on mutual understanding should work, what it contains, where there are threats and what values are. If you say it's a positive light, that's your estimate. I think these changes will be a success if they are made. My opinion is based on the competence of financial analysts, and the negotiators have mentioned these financial analysts before.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U107	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U108	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I've come from a group that appreciates the analysis, but on my first day here, I feel like I'm at some religious gathering. Here's my question. You used words that risks would increase. So when will this breakpoint come when we're going to discuss writing debt in the chimneys in this hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U109	Thank you. It's good to see you. You're here for the first day. You just took an oath a little while ago, so there's nothing weird about it if you feel like you're here on your first day. Based on the programmes that have been put on the table, based on the financial analyses that have been put on paper in the negotiations in the form of reforms, there is a presumption that, if these programmes are implemented, we will not have to deal with such issues as you mentioned. If today we take a decision that we do not support Greece, there may be consequences, given that it is possible for all Member States to say 'no'. I think it would certainly have consequences in terms of values, not just fiscal ones. We are not discussing this today. Today, everyone expects that this programme, which has been put on the table for the Member States, will help the beneficiary country back on its feet. With this knowledge, all Member States are in decision-making processes. We can discuss whether the formation of the Fiscal Council, as was done in Estonia a few years ago, will help Greece in the future and which will give the state budget so-called additional independence. I think it's definitely enough, this has nothing to do with religion, it's definitely enough. Today we are in a situation where we need to make a decision: 86 billion in three years, and the lender is not us, but the financial institution in which we are parties. This is a place of decision, just as financial institutions constantly make decisions when issuing various loans. We have taken the view that this is the subject of a large hall, and I think it is very good that we once made such a decision. This gives us all the opportunity to discuss the subject here, to express our opinion and to express our fears.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U110	Thank you. There is a clear picture, there is a very clear picture. In EFSF, our capital key is 0.27, in ESM 0.18.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U111	Thank you. I will begin by answering the introduction to which you started your question. The main character today is not me, the main characters are you in this hall. You say whether or not Estonia approves of this MOU. The main characters are you. As regards the possible structural measures that the agreement with Greece seeks to implement in the near future, perhaps you are perhaps smarter than the European Commission, the Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank. But let me say that when we talk about faith, I believe them more than I believe you. It's my faith.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U112	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Knowing you from your last life, when you were a successful real estate dealer, I know you're very good at counting money. You know, if you multiply 0 times any number, the result is still 0. It is very difficult to listen to you now because it is very difficult to listen to a performer who does not really believe what he says and is not sure of what he says. If, for example, I've bought three apartments from you and I've forgotten to pay for them, what kind of trick do you sell me the fourth apartment?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U113	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U114	Thank you. I'm ignoring estimates, every person has the right to make assessments of others. I believe that if these reforms are implemented, they will help Greece to return to the market over the years. I believe that. The guarantee that Greece will actually take these measures is the same money. If he doesn't, he won't get the money. If you ask whether Estonia and other countries would be prepared to transfer the full amount of money the next day, essentially after the adoption of the aid programme, hoping that Greece will adopt the commitments it has on its shoulders, then I will say that I do not believe it. However, since we have agreed or agreed that money can only be paid against reforms, it is now a matter of values. Do we want to see Greece in the euro zone? Do we want to see Greece in the European Union? How do we feel about possible security risks? Here, these questions will play a role.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U115	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U116	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. At the time of the first Greek aid package, Greece had a debt burden of just over 100% of Greece's GDP. Today, with this aid package, the Greek debt burden will rise to 200% of Greece's GDP. Do you think it is reasonable to keep Greece in the euro zone for purely political reasons and to hope that, through reforms, Greece will be able to get out of this cycle of SMS loans? Or would it be reasonable, from the perspective of both lenders and the Greek people, to let Greece go its own way so that it goes back to its drachma and undergo more or less the same healing as Argentina after the ten-year crisis in 2000?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U117	Thank you. These are the questions of assessment. It's your decision how you feel about it. In Parliament, we have different political parties. There is even a party that said many years ago that we should not join the euro area at all. The Centre Party said not to join the European Union. They made their referendum on this. There are different parties represented in this Parliament, and that is finally your decision. I would look at an even more important indicator, not at a percentage of GDP, but at the sustainability of debt, whether Greece is capable of serving its debt at its current level. Given the maturity and interest of the Greek loans, it is at the same level as Spain and its sustainability is even better than Italy. In principle, although the loan represents a very high percentage of GDP, it is competitive in terms of debt sustainability on a year-on-year basis. Now that's very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U118	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. In 2011, Estonia's aid in the debt crisis was justified to Greece and Portugal by the fact that it was a profitable investment. "It's not a non-refundable aid, there's good interest paid," said the government leaders back then. It was said that those in need would receive loans through the IMF, the EFSF and the ESM, with those in need covering all the costs, paying interest on the amounts and paying them part by part depending on how they have implemented their reforms. Today, in 2015, all this will happen again. If these organisations already pay EUR 41 billion of EUR 86 billion to Greece in August, September and October in the framework of the new package of aid, the repayment schedule has not yet been put together, and no reform approved in Greece could be implemented. How is it guaranteed that Greece will now change, and this is not an extra money for Greece? Of the 86 billion, 54 billion had to go to refinancing old loans. If he doesn't do all this, then what?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U120	Thank you. Thank you for asking me this beautiful question and reading it from somewhere nicely. Our best guarantee can be the same reforms. Some people have asked if Greece should not provide some island, real estate, movable property, as a guarantee. Perhaps the euro area countries should take this as a guarantee? I am telling you that the best guarantee can be the country's reforms: structural reforms, tax reforms, administrative reforms. They can be the best guarantee for other countries. If it implements these reforms in the same way as Cyprus, Ireland and a number of other countries that have received aid packages from safety nets, then it is the best guarantee for other countries, believe me.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U121	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I listened to what you said. You use the word "believe" all the time. Do you present here as a man of faith if you believe that all the billions of euros that have been given over the last five years, and now another 86 billion, will be able to do all these reforms in the South? How many times would you be willing to lend a loan to your casino-addicted friend who's been in your debt for a long time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U123	Thank you. Since several people's questions were presented on the basis of faith, as was your question, a good colleague, were now connected with faith, it is not strange if you get a religious answer to your question. To widen the subject and bring a casino-addicted friend into the game, I say the question is, if you see the possibility that a casino addict would stop playing in a casino, will you be willing to bet on it and help him to move him away from that evil, especially if it is clearly set out how his withdrawal process would proceed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U124	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U125	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Accession to the ESM was justified by the need for solidarity with other euro area countries; in reality, it was rather a matter of solidarity with financial capital and German and French large banks, while solidarity with Estonian society was forgotten. To refresh my memory, I have just read a verbatim report of a sitting of the Riigikogu, not long ago, where you failed to explain to the MPs whether or not the guarantee given to EFSF, EUR 2 billion, and the EUR 1.3 billion given to the ESM will be approximated. Do you and the government have a clear picture today of whether these amounts will be reduced and for how much has Estonia finally provided a guarantee?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U126	Thank you. The negotiators have put forward three scenarios: A, B and C. The A scenario is the so-called baseline scenario, where Greece is expected to meet all the commitments it has made and, if it does, the result in 2030 is that the burden is 125% of GDP. In scenario B, this is viewed more pessimisticly, the programme is expected to be implemented only partially, privatisation revenues are lower, economic growth is not what was expected to be, but half a percent lower. This automatically also means that the primary surplus is smaller. In this case, the burden in 2030 will be 145% of GDP. There is also a positive scenario, C-scenario, which is a better scenario, which assumes that Greece will deliver on its promises and structural reforms will deliver better growth in Greece, half as much as the estimates take into account. In this case, we will see a slightly more than 100% correlation to GDP in 2030. You asked us what gives us confidence that these concrete measures will contribute to this. This is the result of the financial analyses that have been carried out during the negotiations and have been calculated. True, if we look at the current level and, for example, next year's level, we will see a sudden increase in the burden, which is also natural, but we will see from a long perspective that many of the changes that will be made will give the country an effect in the future. The changes currently being made, for example, in the pension system will bring real money to the country in tens of years.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U127	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U128	Thank you, manager. Minister of Finance! There has been a lot of talk about religion today. You believe that this programme will succeed and that Greece can be saved. I don't think so. I believe that if the loan burden is not reduced or the asset is not sold significantly more, there will be no positive solution. It's my faith. But my belief is also that after 2020, Estonia will probably need a safety net of its own, because the European Union's financial support will be significantly reduced by billions of euros. Estonia has granted guarantees in EFSF for EUR 570 million. It's already done, it's not done with the next program. The total amount of commitments could be close to EUR 1 billion. If they have to be filled, we will be in Greece's position and we may need this safety net. Or do you disagree?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U129	Thank you. Yeah, I don't think so. In order not to answer too briefly, I will also give you an example. I am currently rejecting European values, speaking in black and white, in fiscal terms. I understand that years ago you clearly opposed Estonia joining the European Union at all. But I am telling you today that, if we are only talking about money, then during this period, 2004 to 2015, Estonia has received real money from European structural funds of EUR 6.15 billion in grants. Yeah, we've had some expenses. We have had implementation costs, development and humanitarian funding, staffing costs, European Union payments. All of this has been in the order of EUR 1.83 billion. What do I mean by that? If you only want to talk about the fiscal level, leaving everything else aside, take into account that, during this period, we have actually received just over EUR 4 billion from Europe. We are net recipients, not net contributors.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U130	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, First of all, I say that I did not get a very precise answer to my previous question. My question concerned the one-sided and overwhelming targeting of the instruments of the European Stability Mechanism to one country and whether this is right and fair to other countries. But second, I want to ask you about Greek corruption. Many of the points in the memorandum on the recovery of social security debts, the improvement of administrative capacity, the improvement of the tax administration's work and so on have links to corruption. All Transparency assessments so far have shown that Greece is the red lantern in corruption from the countries of the European Union, the most corrupt country. What is the basis of optimism for us to overcome this phenomenon and to end the phakelaque?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U132	Thank you. I have no optimism. When I talk to you and answer your questions, I only have those points of sober consideration that are on the tables here today. I think that if Greece implements structural changes, it will be able to get its costs under control. If he doesn't, that's not possible. I will be honest: if he does not do so, he will not be able to control the costs and his revenue will not increase. He has to make these changes happen. If he doesn't make them, he won't get the money. As far as the ESM is concerned, it is a matter of assessment. You called it the overwhelmingly largest project. God willing to keep it that way in this context. The maximum possible amount of money to be issued from the ESM safety net is EUR 500 billion. EUR 700 billion is the total amount of capital; EUR 500 billion is the maximum amount to be paid out. To date, the ESM has provided money to two countries: Spain, EUR 40 billion and Cyprus, now EUR 6 billion. The Cyprus programme is active, with three billion more coming up until spring next year. Now Greece will be added to 86 billion. In total, in this case, the amount is EUR 130.140 billion, which the ESM issues out of its 500 billion. We can also look the other way: basically EUR 360 billion is still in the safety net, or ESM. Compared to the amount paid to Spain, the amount paid to Greece is twice as high and, of course, much higher than the amount paid to Cyprus. Why are we not talking today about Spain and Cyprus, especially Cyprus, whose programme is active? The Spanish programme is now over, in the sense that the money has been paid out, he has fulfilled all his promises, but the Cyprus programme is active. The ESM is currently paying additional financial support to Cyprus. As I said, EUR 5.8 billion has been paid out. If my memory isn't fooled, I think Cyprus has five inspections by now. Why don't we talk about it? Because he is fulfilling his promises that he has ever made to get this EUR 9 billion from the ESM. He keeps his promises, and his figures are what he once agreed with the creditor promised to achieve. That's why we're not talking about this today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U133	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U134	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Greece was accepted into the European Union and the euro area with very great concessions. Greece is very trivially comfortable with the various payments on behalf of the European Union, and every year it will receive another EUR 5 billion for nothing if my memory is not deceived. We have already received your answer that there is no guarantee that this aid programme will make the Greek state more responsible. But what is the responsibility of the Republic of Estonia, the Reform Party, the IRL and the Soccer Government, so that the aid programme can fulfil its purpose?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U135	Thank you, President-in-Office and Minister. Glad to hear that one faith is better than another. My question, however, concerns the conditions of the aid package relating to the reduction of Greece's defence costs. Greece is known to be a host country of its own. His relationship with NATO's ally Turkey is not the best. Greece is inevitably a party if there is a conflict in Cyprus. Greece is the front country with regard to the immigration crisis that has hit Europe. My question is this: who was present with the representatives of Estonia when it was agreed that Greece would reduce defence costs? Does Estonia consider such a decision to be reasonable? In my opinion, this creates a real opportunity for a military coup in Greece and/or for Greece to push Russia into the sphere of influence.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U136	Thank you. It is good to hear this question about the Russian sphere of influence. You see, you're talking a lot about the belief in what you think happens and what happens. But in that case, it's only your faith. In the coming years, Greece will reduce its defence costs, 100 million next year and 400 million later. At present, Greece's defence expenditure is in the order of 2.5% of GDP. It may also be a little less because GDP has fallen. A reduction of this magnitude means that the percentage of defence expenditure in GDP will decrease by around 0.2 to 0.25%, i.e. Greece will still remain at the 2% reduction agreed in NATO, which many countries have not yet reached. Of course, if you're in a situation where revenue doesn't cover the cost, then you need to review your cost structures. Given that Greece's investments, Greece's defence expenditure, are clearly above 2% of GDP and remain above 2% after the cut, the negotiators have made these agreements with Greece.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U137	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, First of all, I would like to refute the misconception that repeatedly sounded in this Chamber today that the Centre Party opposed the accession of the European Union. I, for example, did not object. In the debate on today's item, however, I would like to know the opinion of you and the Ministry of Finance, not the institutions of the European Union, as to whether the aid package under discussion is an investment that would generate revenue at a rate of 1%, or whether it would become irrecoverable aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U139	Thank you. Estonia participates in a financial institution called the ESM, the European Stability Mechanism. ESM, as I said before, borrows money from the markets. The capital of the ESM is currently EUR 80 billion. As I said, the Estonian capital key 0,18 means that we actually made a physical payment of EUR 148.8 million by 2014. The total amount of payments from all countries is in the order of 80 billion. The primary and most important objective of these safety nets is certainly the stability of the euro area. That's all that matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U140	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U141	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I'd like to brake this religious story. We are not talking about religious matters; we have an empirical experience that says that one thing or another is not worth doing or worth doing. However, faith, hope and love for the euro are currently primarily on the side of those who are in favour of the Greek aid package. There have been repeated talks about the IMF, experts at the Commission, experts in Estonia and experts at the European Central Bank. However, I would point out that the IMF has said very clearly, very specifically and repeatedly that only debt write-off, partial write-off will help Greece. For political reasons, all other parties have ruled this out. When it comes to the IMF coming to the support package, the IMF has ruled it out. I believe more IMF experts than Brussels or Frankfurt experts, because they have dealt with similar things repeatedly, but Brussels and Frankfurt do not.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U142	Now should be a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U143	Why are you reducing the significance of the IMF experts' assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U144	Thank you, good questioner! It's interesting that you're going to talk a long story first, 40 seconds of having enough faith for today, and then you're going to start with the words "I believe" and you're going to tell me why you believe. So let's put this side aside and talk about concrete facts. After all, your question was automatically misjudged. You said the IMF would completely refuse. No, the IMF's been at the negotiating table all along. The IMF says that these reforms are a success for Greece. That is what the IMF has said very clearly, at the negotiating table itself. The IMF's summer assessment of Greece's loan burden and loan structure was made earlier, based on more pessimistic growth and budgetary forecasts. The European Commission's assessments have been made at a later stage and the current baseline scenario is already close to the former IMF scenario. This is the agreement that during the first review, during the first review, the ESM and IMF consult each other. The IMF has been at the negotiating table and has clearly confirmed that the reforms will help Greece. There is no doubt or question of faith. Common sense says that if you move the retirement age further, it will give the state fiscal revenue. There's nothing to believe, it's reality.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U145	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U146	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! You mentioned that we are the main characters in this package and in lending. I see that you are so appallingly congratulating this lending and demonstrating in a positive light, regardless of what has happened in Greece so far. Here is the question: will you take personal responsibility if this package goes down too?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U147	Thank you. That's a good question. It is true that when we look at countries that have received financial support through both EFSF and ESM through security networks, their loan periods have not been that long. The Spanish Minister for Finance also stated at the last meeting of the Eurogroup that, in the first phase of the negotiation process, the length of the Spanish agreement was four years and, later, 12.5 years. In the case of Greece, we are talking about 32.5 years now. But all parties agree that if financial aid is to be granted to Greece, it must certainly be in such a dimension that the process is sustainable. We have no point in deceiving ourselves and saying that we will give Greece a five-year loan if we already know at the moment of lending that it will not be possible to repay this money in five years. These measures, which have been legally accepted by Greece, cannot bring the primary budget surplus to such a level so quickly as to repay the entire loan. It's just not possible. As regards the countries you have indicated, they clearly believe that yes, the terms of the loan granted to Greece are more favourable than the terms of the loan granted to them. But here come these values, which Mr Juhan Parts also pointed out. We have a common currency and, in addition to the fiscal side, there are other nuances that we have talked about here today. The true story, the loan percentages and the length of the loan period are such that Greece is now almost equal to Spain in its annual expenditure compared to GDP. That's right. But this is one of the places of solidarity. And on the other hand, these countries have not come to say that take our loans to 30 years and set the same interest. That's not what they've come to say. Rather, in the case of countries that have already completed their programmes, examples can be given that they have even paid back faster to reduce their debt burden.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U148	Thank you. Mr. Minister! The second thing that scratches me a little in this discussion is those extremely primitive slogans and so-called arguments with which our potential opponents or no-voters are trying to explain their positions. Let me give you a few examples. We are giving aid to Greece, but we are actually borrowing, not us, but the European institution. We give our pensioners' money to Greek pensioners. We have just heard that we are oppressing the Greek people here, that the expulsion of Greece from the common monetary zone is a hell of a good solution. Two minutes ago, we heard we were some kind of Merkel doin' things. I'm gonna ask you again. We understand that we have a complex problem with our own money, the euro. We are trying to find a civilized solution to this unique problem. So the question, which can be answered yes or no, was there any real alternative solutions in the months that the problem was discussed or was not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U149	Thank you. Our current financial allocations have indeed been made through the IMF, where we are part of the European Central Bank, albeit in a small part, but still. In the case of the second programme, we have guarantees of EUR 330 million. The measure under the second Greek aid programme is 120 billion. Considering that this money has not been provided free of charge to Greece, it pays interest on it, Estonia will receive another 40 million in addition to 330 million in the second programme. In principle, it can be said that Estonia's share of this other 120 billion programme, including interest, is 370 million euros. We have so far been very clear on this fiscal level; we have talked more about structural reforms and the associated cost savings or revenue increases. Perhaps less has been said about the overall values of Europe and the euro zone. We have talked less about what one country's exit from the euro zone or even from the European Union could mean for the whole of the European Union in the long term. Those are definitely questions that are upstairs. These issues have not been discussed so far, as at present Greece and other Member States do not have such a plan that these issues should become topical. Rather, everyone is working in a different direction, so that Greece will pay back its loans in the future, both existing and future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U150	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U151	Minister, thank you very much. You indicated that Greece is planning to increase the retirement age. It is questionable whether raising the retirement age in Greece's huge debts will save something, that pensioners will then be rescued. But you noted that pensions were reduced in Greece. Could you say specifically how much was reduced, even in percentage terms? That's one. Secondly, would you like to compare the average pension of a Greek and an Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U152	Thank you. Do not say that structural reforms of the pension system will not help Greece. If you're saying what's going to help raise the retirement age to 67, that it doesn't give the state anything, then I think with your question, you're on a bit of a wrong path. As early as 2015, Greece will achieve a saving of 0.25% of GDP through ongoing activities. The expected savings are 1% of GDP in 2016, i.e. next year. This is a very large amount, which is expected to be achieved only through the pension reform. As I said earlier, if early retirement is to be achieved, the pension payable accordingly will be reduced, the various special pensions, supplementary pensions, guaranteed pension rates will be excluded. These are measures that ultimately generate its benefits. It is not the case that what it is still is not, it is a huge saving for the country. Believe me, these processes have already begun as pre-actions and very difficult negotiations are also taking place in Greece itself. Part of the decisions were taken last week.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U153	Thank you for your question. Look at what an interesting discussion we're having. You are saying that this is a humiliation of Greece, that something is being imposed on Greece. After all, it is a Greek voluntary decision; no one can impose it. The primary proof of this is Greece's own actions before other countries started making their own decisions. Today, the Greek Parliament has said that it is prepared to comply with the terms of such a memorandum and wishes to approve it. We cannot say that it is imposed, rather the contrary, it has been their clear desire. They see that the mid-term thoughts of the Greek Government and the proposed measures have not led the country in the direction it was expected to take. After all, we see a situation where their costs have gone out of control. It's a reality. And they have said that they want to be in the euro zone, that they want to share its values. Remember, during the negotiations, it has been Greece who has said that yes, these, and these changes, they will be able to implement, that these and these changes will result in an overview of their revenue-costs in the future. It has, after all, been on a voluntary basis. Before the Member States started their procedures, Greece accepted that it would be ready for this. It was necessary that it really did not happen, as you said, that the other Member States would decide how to do it, and Greece will then say no, it does not want it. Greece still took the first step.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U154	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The reforms that Greece must implement are big and the package is impressive. At the same time, we know very well that the Head of Government has also obtained Parliament's consent to the third aid package with the votes of the opposition and will probably go back to the vote of confidence himself. Have the institutions also discussed the possibility that, after 26 billion have already been transferred in August, the government will change and, again, reforms will not be said or will something else change in Greece's internal policy? Has this been discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U156	Thank you. Yeah, of course it's been discussed. It is not a question of whether political power will change in one country or another and whether it will lead to new political orientations. People say which direction he wants to choose. But every quarter, a review will be made of whether the processes that have been agreed with any government that is currently in power are being carried out. If, in the meantime, the composition of Parliament has changed, the government has changed, whether or not the changes will be implemented. These things are linked, concrete reforms against money. This is also the reason why no larger amounts have been transferred in the previous period. In fact, Greece would have liked to have received considerably higher amounts in the first stages. Future creditors, Member States via the ESM, negotiators have told Greece that 26 billion are linked to pre-emptive activities. The list of pre-actions states very clearly where this money is going (partly it will come right back). The list of actions that Greece will have to undertake before the money is transferred is quite long and very ambitious, but Greece has adopted it. If there should be extraordinary elections and changes in the future, if the new government takes a different position, then there will be no more transfers of funds. Depends on whether or not the reforms that Greece has promised to do and which we have talked about today in this Chamber will be implemented. Of course, this political risk always remains that the new government says that it does not want to carry out these reforms. But then there will be no money promised, because money will still be given against reforms.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U157	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U158	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I would ask about the long hours of the night where the good minister has been sitting and discussing matters with his colleagues. Has Portugal, Spain, Ireland or any other former child of concern pointed out that they would also like to have a 1% and 30+-year loan, which could lead to some things being forgotten? Or has the Portuguese side taken it easy, patted the Greeks on their shoulders and said you could do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U159	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U160	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U161	We can certainly interpret the current discussion and possible decisions from the point of view of our positions and saving our money. I also read this evening's article you've written. So I'm familiar with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U162	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U163	Thank you. I think these experts are independent experts. You said that this pace of time was insane, and you doubted whether it would be possible to develop programs in weeks or months. You also said that all of this has not been approved by independent experts. I am telling you, on the contrary, it is the independent experts who have approved it. One of the most important is the OECD opinion in such cases, and the OECD has made it clear that the proposed changes bear the values it has previously given as its own individuals. Other independent analysts, who have not been at the table as negotiators, but who have come back to support this process, have today very clearly confirmed this. The other half of the question has slipped my mind, I'm sorry! [[Interjection.]] Yeah, the question was, where's the 54 billion going? Most of it is used in the public sector. Some of it goes to the IMF, some to the European Central Bank. The private sector's share of this 54 billion is 8 billion, the rest mainly related to international institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U164	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U165	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Your speech came out, and you have now confirmed that there are no problems in the private sector in Greece. There are problems with servicing debts. At the same time, a referendum was held in Greece where the debt package was not supported. You yourself said that in a democratic country the people will decide, the people will be important, and the people will be the main. In the Greek Parliament, this package was only recently voted on and there is a high probability that a minority government will be formed. Greece has good negotiators; they managed to draw the finance ministers of the European Union in a nice jar. I mean, for example, I am not sure and cannot be sure, on the basis of any statistician, that Greece will ever pay taxes. He'll send you a long way, the private sector will settle in cash, not with banks, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U166	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U167	Where is our confidence that Greece will not use its money? Greece can step out of the European Union itself, not we can throw it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U168	Thank you. If Greece does not meet these conditions, we will not do this transfer either. If we don't make this transfer, then the risks you're describing will not increase. We just don't make a transfer. That's what happened during the second program. During the second programme, Greece did not fulfil the final conditions and the transfer was not made. Greece lost over EUR 12 billion during the second programme. Didn't meet the final terms, and the money wasn't transferred.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U169	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U170	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, There has been a great deal of talk here about how bad the current Greek government is and whether it is a question of faith or something else. There have also been proposals that we should not give aid to Greece again. However, you have certainly examined what obligation, because through your own central bank we are part of the European Central Bank, we are part of the IMF, would be implemented immediately, or what bill would be written if the guarantees we have already granted through the institutions I have mentioned were to be collected?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U171	Thank you. Different countries have different decision-making mechanisms, in some countries Parliament's plenary hall decides on the wishes of the countries joining the aid programme, in some countries it is the responsibility of the ministers and in some even the governments to decide. For example, as regards bridge financing, if Estonia had had to participate, the mandate of ELAK would have been sufficient. The procedures, however, vary greatly from country to country, and even within Estonia itself. If accession to the memorandum is to be decided by the Riigikogu's plenary session, for example in the case of bridge financing, the mandate of ELAK is sufficient. As far as the questions and answers of Juhan Parts are concerned, they are rather estimates. I believe that every member of the Riigikogu can assess both the questions and the answers themselves; I am not in a hurry to comment on them at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U172	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Angela Merkel did not rule out, for the first time yesterday, the possible write-off of Greek debts by the media agency Bloomberg. If Germany really had to take this direction and, using its influence, started to shape the policy of other countries in relation to Greek debts, what would be the position of our Committee on Monetary Affairs? What exactly is your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U173	Thank you. At the moment, I live and live in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Riigikogu knowing that the Member States do not support the write-off of debts. If a different signal comes from a country, then the Heads of Government will discuss it, and this debate will certainly reach the internal political debate in all countries. I guess it's time to shape your positions. But right now, all countries have declared that they do not support debt write-off.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U174	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U175	Thank you. It does not seem that I recall the referendum that took place this Sunday at the beginning of July, if I am not mistaken, on 4 or 5 July. Let us remind you of the signals the government gave at the time, the perception it gave the Greek people. The government advised us to say a definite no, claiming that it would lead to nothing bad, but, on the contrary, things would get better, the next day, when the people said no, everything would go uphill. I think this is part of the strategy with which the particular party also won on 25 January. It is simply now clear that these words did not correspond to reality; actions showed something else. Ultimately, the Greek people are mainly suffering in this process, with capital controls there, the economy has reversed and there are other problems. By no means do you consider this process that we and the other Member States are going through today to be a humiliation of Greece. I think that this is a healthy discussion between both parties, namely Greece, on the one hand, and the rest of the Member States, on the other. I'm sure it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U176	Thank you, Minister. No more questions for you. Now I would like to ask Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U177	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Finance Committee discussed Greece's assistance programme with the European Union Affairs Commission at a joint meeting yesterday. The Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, presented the Greek aid programme to the Commission and also answered the questions raised, which in many ways resembled the issues that were put forward today in this Chamber. Following the joint meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on European Union Affairs, the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs took place for further processing of the draft, as the Board of the Riigikogu had appointed the Committee on Monetary Affairs as the lead committee. As the Minister said, the main objectives of the aid programme are to restore fiscal sustainability, ensure financial stability in Greece, promote investment, competitiveness and modernise Greece's public administration. No amendments were received from the political groups by the deadline set by the Riigikogu's Management Board, which was 12.30 yesterday. Next, I will give you an overview of the questions and discussions of the Members of the Commission at yesterday's two sessions. Is the proposed package of measures sufficient to get Greece back on a sustainable path? As highlighted several times in the previous debate and in the Commission, structural reforms in the country are a prerequisite for lending money to Greece. In order for negotiations to begin at all, Greece had to take the first steps and they must continue in the near future. Similarly, loan payments are preceded by a regular reform review process. As a reminder, Greece has already taken the following decisions in July: simplifying and cleaning up the VAT system, broadening the tax base, improving the sustainability of the pension system, consolidating the independence of the Statistical Office, introducing semi-automatic cost control rules for the budget, and adopting the Code of Civil Procedure, as well as transposing the Bank Resolution Directive. At the same time, the Greek Parliament has confirmed the implementation of the other reforms and actions contained in the Euro Summit agreement on 12 July in the future. The role of the IMF was also the subject of the Commission meeting. If there is perhaps the impression that the IMF has somehow distanced itself from the process, then that is not the case. In fact, the IMF has been at the table throughout the negotiations. True, they have wished to write off loans, but the governments of the Member States, including the Estonian Government, certainly do not support the write-off or forgiveness of taxpayers' money. The possible accession of the IMF to the programme will become more real when the first reporting period and evaluation takes place, indicatively in October. I am now talking about the privatisation plan and the privatisation arrangements for Greece. The institutions have negotiated a privatisation process with Greece. The plan for the first three years is to sell or partially privatise EUR 6 billion of assets. The actual scheme is much wider, but in order to obtain fair market value for assets, it must not be pushed excessively. A more detailed overview of the privatisation plan has been sent out to and also printed out to all comms, so that everyone can look at it more closely. We also spoke in the Commission about the terms of the repayment of the Greek loan. A specific payment schedule is not yet in place, as it depends on the pace of achieving Greece's sustainable level and progress in implementing the programme. However, the first milestone is already the mid-term evaluation of October referred to above. Defence costs were being discussed, as was the case in this Chamber, at yesterday's joint session. It was confirmed, as the Minister for Finance said today, that Greece will still be in compliance with the 2% requirement and will certainly not lower its defence costs. The topic of Estonia's debt burden. The aid package does not have a direct additional impact on the Estonian state budget or on the debt burden of the state. Upon joining the ESM in 2012, the Estonian state guarantee has already been granted in full and the current decision will not reduce or increase it. True, this will certainly increase the risks, as the Minister of Finance said in answering the questions. What is the ESM decision-making mechanism? This was also briefly discussed in the previous debate, but in the case of this draft, rather the memorandum, all Member States must agree and each participant has the possibility of blocking. As no amendments were received and no amendments were made to the draft by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the draft decision "approval of the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic" before the plenary session of the Riigikogu is in the final vote as proposed by the Government of the Republic. The final vote on the draft was taken by 7 members in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and 5 against, with no abstentions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U178	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. My colleague Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U179	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It is known that in 2012, the Estonian state granted a guarantee of EUR 1.3 billion, and the result of the vote today does not change any decision. Do you think today's trial was even necessary in this form? The Minister of Finance could simply have signed the memorandum himself. After all, from the speech by Juhan Parts, it emerged that the members of the Riigikogu are asking primitive questions, which are that everyone has received a mandate from their constituents and that they are interested in these questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U180	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U181	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good representative of the lead committee! You started by saying that there were no amendments to the 69 OE. Could you help the members of the Riigikogu and tell us what we should propose amendments on? Is it the first sentence or the second sentence?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U182	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In answering one question here today, you said that the main characters are us, the Riigikogu, that it is up to us whether or not Greece gets help. How's that, really? If this hall votes against this aid programme today, will it really affect the final decision? Or is it true that no matter how we vote here, even if we are all opposed, the next aid package will go to Greece anyway and will go 100%?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U183	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Today in this Chamber, we once again feel the answers to questions. I remember a minister in the spring reminding me that I was a former headmaster. At the same time, I wonder how ministers answered questions in school hours. But that's it. The financial institutions negotiated measures with Greece. Now Member States, independent states clap on these conditions and everyone agrees with them. Is the role of these institutions not too great here and the role of the Member States in this debate remains, as if, very small?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U185	Thank you. No, it's not. After all, we have already established for ourselves, under what conditions we could begin negotiations in the first place. These conditions are met. Now we have made a list of activities for ourselves that could serve as a basis for this particular MOU to be signed. I do not think this is a question of increasing or reducing anyone's powers. The negotiating party is not the Member States, the 18 Member States are against Greece, the negotiations are not like that. We have the mandate to negotiate mainly with the European Commission, from there automatically also the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, the three of whom have been in a common position throughout the negotiations with Greece. The best knowledge of the negotiators has been that eventually, as a result of the negotiations, a document will have to come to the table that will lead to the sustainability of the country. In this sense, we have not given them any additional powers. The final decision is to make nation states, in our case, in Parliament, in some countries, as I said before, at government level. We have not given them the authority to go and conclude a contract. They have brought papers before us and said that, if we make these and these changes, the state will be able to serve its debt and then at some point it will become sustainable. Yes, it will not happen in one year or two, given the current situation, this process will be longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U186	Colleagues Henn Põllaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U187	Thank you. Good minister! Greece submitted an application for aid from ESM on 8 July. I would say that your admired analysts, who have been able to carry out such a thorough and concise analysis over this very short period of time, and to put in place measures to bring Greece out of the swamp, really must have supernatural capabilities, all the more so as independent experts do not confirm their opinion. What I am asking is that 54 billion old loans and 8 billion private loans are being rebuilt from the aid programme. Perhaps you can explain to us how this money is actually and specifically used, this 54 billion for the reconstruction of old loans?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U188	Thank you. Members of the Riigikogu are always free to make proposals on the point of the first and the second specific draft, or according to how many there are. As far as I know, the President of the Riigikogu has also developed a structure in which no incompetent or foolish proposal is left unfinished. This must definitely come to the vote in this Chamber. In this case, neither the stupid nor the incompetent nor the very good proposals have been made, although this was an opportunity. This opportunity was provided for by our Rules of Procedure, because we have a separate section of the law as an example of the draft procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U189	Thank you. It is still as you said in the first half of your question. This Memorandum of Understanding package is pending in all Member States and it is expected that national procedures will be completed today or at the latest tomorrow. There is also a reason why today or at the latest tomorrow: on 20 August the time will come when Greece will need to make another loan payment (three and a half billion to the European Central Bank). If a Member State vetoes this package, says it does not agree, then this process will definitely stop. Then the regular process has been put to a halt, and consequently there will be some extraordinary rounds of negotiations or extraordinary decision-making positions. At present, all Member States, including Estonia, have the opportunity to act regularly if they have this will.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U190	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U191	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You have confirmed that Estonia's risks are increasing by supporting this loan and that nothing will change if we do not support it. Why do we have to take a chance? The Greeks have a much higher standard of living than Estonians. We have already shown our solidarity by participating in the second support programme. Why must we take another risk by supporting a much more prosperous country than Estonia? We have no reason to jump over our shadows and pay for the Greek party.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U192	Well, now we've reached the stage where we interpret words. We're already putting sentences in our own question that the other side hasn't said. In this sense, it is very difficult to hold further discussions. I like to have a discussion when it's constructive. I haven't said at any point that if I don't, nothing will change. I haven't said that at any point, because I think it's definitely gonna change. I'm sure it will! I think that if any Member State today does not support the current programme, we must very clearly ask what are the reasons why we do not support it, from which it comes. I hope that we will never have a situation in which the parliaments of other countries should discuss Estonia in a similar situation. We can only support very concrete actions. If these actions are undertaken in Greece, there is also reason to support it if they are not, there is no reason to support it. It certainly cannot be said that if you do not support it, nothing will change. I think the situation is clearly changing, in which case there will be a new paradigm.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U193	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U194	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You have said many times today that our guarantee, if Greece does not implement the reforms, is that the next payment will not be made. Well, that's not quite true, is it? In August, 23 billion will be provided, 2 billion in September and 41 billion in October, if you look at the timetable for giving money to Greece. Only in October, after the 41 billion have been paid out to Greece, will the gap be reviewed and only then will a repayment schedule be agreed. Do you agree with me that the 41 billion that will be paid by the end of October is not really the guarantee that the next payments will not be made? If, in the meantime, no review has been made, what is the guarantee of this 41 billion?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U195	Thank you. No, I don't agree with you. In view of the fact that 26 billion payments will be made in the near future, even more attention has been paid to Greece's 'pre-emptive' activities, which is what it must do before we conclude these agreements. In view of this, as you have pointed out, in the near future, we will make payments if the mutual assistance package is approved. If we look at what activities Greece has already accepted at the legislative level, by 15 July the VAT system has been simplified and organised and the expanded tax base, the pension system has been made more sustainable, the independence of the Statistical Office has been assured and the independent fiscal council, which I mentioned earlier, has been set up to monitor the state budget. This has already happened. The budget is subject to semi-automatic expenditure control rules. If you cross your cost limit, there will be automatic cost control rules, which are so normal in Estonia, but which have not been there. This is agreed by the fiscal agreement in all countries. Fiscal policy has already agreed today that taxes on diesel and excise duties on farmers will be abolished, and the tax on the carrying capacity of ships will increase tonnage. The VAT concession for islands will be completely abolished by the end of 2016. It's already been accepted. In the case of pensions that we talked about before, the minimum guaranteed pension rule will be specified after the age of 67. It's already been accepted. Punitive fees and sanctions have been set in healthcare, for example in cases of violations of prescriptions and conflicts of interest. What Greece has already adopted last week has gone to very subtle nuances. The social welfare system will be reviewed, last Thursday a strategy for non-performing loans was adopted. The law on household inability to pay is being amended to eliminate the possibility that you will be owed and that is the case. The debt is foreign. Labour market legislation, which will have a knock-on effect in the future. These are issues that are not only on the table, these things have already been adopted by Greece. Reform of the gas market. Greece itself said that it wants to bring the reform of the gas market to the table. This was not said to him by the negotiators, the Greeks said that they would bring it to the table earlier, because they see that the liberalisation of the gas market will give them an additional dimension in fiscal terms more quickly. That's when you made your decision on Thursday. It seems strange to us to speak on the subject of the opening of the restricted professions of notaries, actuaries, bailiffs. There was no such opportunity before, they were limited, now they are opened. Tourism and the rental space market will be liberalised. All these are actions that have already been confirmed. There is a privatization plan how exactly what things, which ports, Thessaloniki port offers, the Pireus port offers. As of October 2015, the processes must already be operational. A strategic plan to combat corruption. These actions, which I am listing here, have now been carried out by Greece before the negotiations are concluded. The list of these activities is precisely because it is so long and substantial that the first process has a total of 26 billion. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U196	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U197	Thank you, President-in-Office. Several experts have mentioned that this Greek reform package is Estonia's face. And indeed, they must make their labour market more flexible, which Estonia has made, they must abolish the tax divisions that Estonia has made, not to mention the independence of the Estonian Tax and Statistical Office. What other reforms would you highlight, which Greece still has ahead of it and what Estonia has already done?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U198	Thank you. Surely one important thing is to get the entire real estate register to work, which works in Estonia. Opening up the energy market, opening up the gas market, simplifying customs procedures. Things that seem self-evident to us. In Greece, many professions are protected at all; access to certain professions is very difficult. The opening-up of professions is coming in the near future, and all the opening-up of the labour market that you mentioned. Let us remember that Estonia was also in a situation at some point where we had very inflexible employment contracts and a very inflexible labour market. Today, Estonia is in a completely different situation. We will take this same fiscal council in the country's financial management. A few years ago, we formed it, it has been agreed in the Europe Agreements. In Greece, this Council has still not been formed. Managing the Treasury, not so-called political leadership, but management of competences. Here are some examples. Of course, tax policy is being reviewed, which is a very clear part of the policy. Indeed, as you said in your question, there are various tax exemptions. The Greek tax system is very complex, very nuanced, with very large differences. So there will be changes. They don't come easily, but the work is done in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U199	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U200	Good waitress! There has been much talk here about the competence of European leaders. If I compare the predictions made three years ago that relate to Olli Rehn, Juncker, formerly Strauss-Kahn and Lagarde, then I must say that the accuracy of the analysis was undoubtedly greater on Juku-Kalle Raid. So I don't see much analysis there, and I don't trust it either. The proverb says that the hand of the giver is always generous. Since we will probably discuss another aid package in two or three months' time, I would remind you that Rait Maruste and I had a proposal to limit aid to the fact that Estonia will not fall out of the Maastricht criteria and the principle of budgetary balance when granting aid. You, as the chairman of the committee, said badly about this at the time. Are you willing to change your views? If we don't save our sovereignty, maybe we save our money?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U201	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Sven, thank you very much. Now I understand what we're sitting for in this hall. I mean, our decision doesn't really depend on anything. Even if this hall votes against, Greece will get its money anyway. But if we vote 'no', then the paradigm will change, then it is not immediately 100 per cent certain that the next time Estonia needs help, those who take decisions will make a positive decision. We have to stay in line, we have to show that we're certain soldiers, and if there's anything they want from us, we're gonna give it up like a good girl right now. In this light, our opinion is of no importance. Thank you so much. I don't regret coming here tonight. I finally figured out what we're doing in this hall tonight.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U202	Good Mikhail, I've always enjoyed your questions. And knowing your passion for discussing Estonian, I'm sure your definition of a good girl was also remarkable. But I have to admit, by nature, you're still on the wrong track right now. Your wrong path lies in the fact that unanimity is required in the case of a memorandum of mutual assistance, the approval of which is up to us here today, to be precise, of you. If this memorandum does not find support in a Member State, this specific measure will not work with these dates. When I was talking about a paradigm change, that means that all parties have to think about it. This particular agreement, this bill, which was at the negotiator's table, will not work on the scheduled dates. There's no two-sided understanding here, it's definitely like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U203	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U204	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I asked the question above that Greece is reducing defence costs to a considerable extent. In addition to this, however, I have one question: do their reform programmes include anything about the admission of immigrants? We know that Greece is in a lot of trouble with these things. Are there any changes in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U205	I will start with the first part of this question. You have estimated that defence costs will be reduced to a considerable extent. It's always a question of assessment. I say to you that protection costs will be reduced by 0.2 to 0.25% from the current 2.5%. The question is, at what point do we call something big? It's a question of assessment. Now the other side, the question about potential immigrants. The whole issue of refugees is a separate issue that is currently being addressed by all Member States. These topics are kept separate because of their nature. We are now talking about the sustainability of the Greek state in the context of various structural reforms. The second issue is refugee policy and all the related activities that the Member States are talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U206	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U207	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I will listen carefully to the questions of my fellow Members. It seems to me that this aspect, which we have to vote on in either a 'no' or a 'yes' form, has been completely sidelined. Colleagues are trying to prove that it is our responsibility to evaluate the Greek people, to assess the credibility of the Greek Government, not to mention to express confidence in the European Central Bank, the European Commission, the IMF and other institutions. I have understood that the question that we are going to have to vote on after a while and whether or not we are going to answer is whether we are willing to strengthen our money, the euro, is our money, to solve one particular problem. I would remind you that the history of the euro is very short, only the second decade is running. Do you share the view that those colleagues who say 'no' I do not know what motives, perhaps benevolent, are actually voting against the strengthening of the euro?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U208	Thank you. I think that a very clear additional dimension here is the stability of the euro area. I think that ESM and EFSF were once created as safety nets to strengthen the stability of the euro area, and if some countries now leave this area, stability will certainly be damaged. Of course, it is also important to note that the conditions must be met by all parties, including Greece, as a result of this programme. He will not be humiliated in the future, i.e. no financial transfers will be made if he does not meet the conditions. But I agree with you that we are making decisions today that are not only fiscal but also value-based. Surely these decisions have such a context. I totally agree with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U209	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U210	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I will take one word for it, namely 'demeanor'. For me, this programme is not a programme to assist Greece, it is a programme to humiliate Greece. And that is why I am voting against it. I imagine you wouldn't want to be a minister in a country where a bunch of other countries are telling you exactly what laws need to be passed and how to live. On the other hand, what bothers me is that our foreign policy has a certain sense of automation. Perhaps, in the interests of cost savings, it would make more sense to invite Mrs Merkel here or to appoint a governor for us and to disband Parliament? I just can't tolerate my behavior as a rubber seal. How do you feel about that opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U211	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to start negotiations? On behalf of the Hard, Social Democratic Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U212	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, and the good Minister of Finance, who are you on this house somewhere? I would like to start by thanking the Minister of Finance, as always, for the meaningful answers and debate. But I'm gonna have to make her a little sad too. Indeed, today's decision by the Socialists cannot be classified as one of its winnings, because even when we analysed the situation in Greece, we decided that the Socialist Party would support the adoption of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic. I'll make sure Tarmo asks why we're doing this. We are doing this because Greece has proved, in its actions over the last two months, its willingness to implement the reform agenda. We are doing this because the experience of other countries in the aid programme shows that the implementation of the reform agenda will improve their financial situation, bring economic growth and allow them to start paying back their debts. But above all, we are doing this because a strong and united Europe is in Estonia's interests. There are certainly many issues involved in the adoption of today's decision. Do all of you who do not support Greece's assistance have an answer to the question of how much it costs the people of Estonia to let Greece go to us? Are conflicts and confusion in the European Union in the interests of Estonia or of another country that is not very friendly with Estonia? Will the bankrupt NATO state increase the security of the Community and thus Estonia? There is reason to ask the supporters of the Greek aid package whether we can trust Greece. After all, the populist government that came to power in January suspended the implementation of the reforms. But my answer is that trust can be created not as a result of promises, but as a result of concrete actions. We must follow the principle that before doing things, fulfilling promises, and only then money. This principle is also firmly stated in the memorandum. It may also be asked whether the aid package can help Greece at all. The experience of Spain in other countries that have received the aid package, such as Cyprus, Portugal, Ireland, shows that it can do so because their economic growth has recovered and their budget deficit and debt burden have decreased. The aid package also helped to improve Greece's financial situation in 2014, when Greece was able to balance its revenue-costs, and they were already expected to grow by that year. Unfortunately, as we know, the populist government that came to power in January stopped the reforms, failed to fulfil the promises made to creditors and thereby brought the country to the threshold of bankruptcy. We sincerely hope that the implementation of the reforms agreed in the Memorandum will improve Greece's financial position, make the country more competitive and help reduce corruption. This is the only way for the Greek economy to grow and for the country to pay for its commitments. So, as I said, the Social Democrats support this decision. They support a Europe of solidarity, strength and unity. By giving 'yes' to Greece today, we will repeat the bigger 'yes' to ourselves, Estonia, because a united and strong Europe will guarantee Estonia a sense of security and economic development. Helping Greece, under the conditions set out in the Memorandum, will enable these objectives to be achieved. The Socats will vote in favour of the adoption of the Memorandum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U213	Thank you. For today, the documents and directions you're about to see are on the table. As you know, months and a half ago there were various speculations. There has been speculation as to whether and under what conditions Greece should leave the euro zone and what it will entail. They've all been speculation. Have there been any substantive discussions at the level of euro area finance ministers or prime ministers about a euro area country leaving the euro area? One questioner here said that the Greeks themselves do not want to be in the euro area. Yes, they do, they have said very clearly that they want to share these values and be in this organization. They've said it very clearly! That is what has made them move and agree to make the various changes that we see now before we conclude the agreement. The euro area as a whole has a clear indication that the planned direction is the direction we should move towards, after all, in relation to the euro. If Greece is ready to embrace these values In particular, given that confidence can only be restored by action, and Greece's trust credit has undoubtedly decreased over the past few years. I assume none of you have an opinion in this Chamber. As a result of past actions, credit for trust has certainly decreased. Consequently, trust can only be restored by action. The Greeks have now shown their actions and it is very clear what actions are to be seen in the context of the programme over the next three years.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U214	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U215	Good President! Good minister! I'm still coming back to this humiliation. I recall that the Greek people had a referendum on much less restrictive conditions, and they opposed these conditions. Do you not think that, on the one hand, by saving our common currency, we are actually breaking down the European Union through this same humiliation, or creating a generation of people in one country who are totally against Europe? Perhaps we will see serious upheavals against the European Union before these debts are repaid.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U216	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the negotiations are closed. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision "Accepting the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic" 69. Please take a stand and vote. There are 50 members of the Riigikogu in favour, 37, no abstentions. Bill 69 has been adopted as a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, today's extraordinary session is closed. See you later! Closure of the sitting at 5.38 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U217	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Free Party Group authorised me to say in a loud and clear voice that the procedure of this draft is not taking place in the Riigikogu in the most reasonable way. I received these materials on my e-mail Saturday evening and on Monday it was time for amendments. These things shouldn't go like this in the middle of the summer. In order to work through such bulky materials, it would be wise to give a somewhat longer notice period. However, as regards the content of this draft decision, the Free Party Group has decided to vote against it. We see a number of reasons for this. Let us first talk about financial considerations. The'rescue' of Greece in this way is obviously unreasonable. This is unreasonable, in particular, because we know nothing about repayment schedules, but also because the European stability mechanism, the so-called pocket through which to assist those countries that are in difficulty, is still meant to guarantee the stability of the euro area as a whole and not to pull out one country in distress. When I asked the Minister of Finance questions about volumes, the answers remained a little one-sided. Yes, Spain has received 40 billion grants, while Cyprus has received some. Their payment schedules are kind of there, and everything works as it should be. In the case of Greece, even these are missing. Yeah, 86 billion. Of course, we can argue about what part of the stability mechanism is 500 billion and whether it could be even greater. But I'm reminding you of what wasn't mentioned earlier. In particular, Greece has already received EUR 142 billion through the so-called dual mechanism EFSF, and it is essentially the same 'pocket'. So if we take all this volume, it's still going to save a crisis country. Five years ago, Estonia may have had a reason to go with the solutions proposed by Europe to Greece. I would remind you that we are not involved in the decision on the way in which Greece's adoption of the euro zone took place by way of an obvious discount. There was another reason to be good - faith back then, but we find that this is not justified at this time. Indeed, further development would rather be a bankruptcy, or a horrible end, instead of an endless horror. However, the exit of Greece from the euro area and the devaluation, the changeover to its own money and all of this would give a very clear signal within the euro area that failure to comply will have consequences. Right now we're trying to avoid that signal. There was a debate earlier about what is more beneficial to the euro area, whether trying to save or reaching the idea that failure to fulfil obligations would have consequences. I do not think that this issue has received an adequate solution. We believe that a lesson is also needed for the future of the euro zone and for other Member States. The minister said several times before that he doesn't know exactly how these things end. There have also been doubts about Mrs Merkel's statements, as well as about the IMF, etc. It is as if we are going to realise an ideal solution that unfortunately exists only on paper. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U218	Thank you. On behalf of my colleague Andres Herkel for the Estonian Free Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U219	Twenty seconds. On the basis of the above, the Reform Party Group is willing to give the Greeks the opportunity to reform their country and to bring it out of the debt crisis. We support the draft memorandum with our votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U220	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U221	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Unlike the two other opposition parties, I do not complain about the fact that the material on the Greek treaty did not arrive for the members of the Riigikogu until Saturday evening. Do you remember how we joined this package? At the time, under the leadership of the Reform Party, there was such a plan that, as the Riigikogu is so slow, decisions of such importance could be made in a smaller office. I therefore consider it very important that we can exchange views and vote on the programme in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. However, I was somewhat embarrassed that when most of the members of the Riigikogu have probably read the materials, the Minister of Finance, who answered the questions, did not answer every third question. Obviously, we must accept this, view it in the key to humor, as did the Speaker of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor, who said that, the minister responds within the limits of his skills and knowledge, and if the questions are difficult and the answers are not, then he must be misplaced. In 2011 we had the same very heated debate here in the Riigikogu over the previous package. At the time, the Minister of Finance argued that we were not going to help Greece, but that this was a very sensible investment. We are now in a position where mistakes made in 2011 are, as if, inappropriate to talk about. But the result of the previous package was that for years, if not decades, Greece had spent money on loans and, at some point, that old loans had been repaid with new loans. Finally, it was no longer possible for the State itself to take new loans to repay the old ones and therefore the confidence ratings of the banks lending to Greece were under very high pressure. We have now come to a situation where private sector risk has been redeemed by taxpayers and the risk has been borne by us. Already in 2011, a number of people who were reluctant to be heard by the government association expressed their views in the public space. One of them was Mr Veabel, for example, who said that there were two simple solutions to help Greece out of the crisis. One solution is to create separate entities (at first the central bank and later the European Stability Mechanism) in which to buy up Greek hopeless bonds. The second option is to make the hopeless bonds that Greece is unable to redeem eligible with an accounting move, i.e. exchange the short maturity of the bonds for a long term. So it seems that no small investor would make such a move, but on paper, such a deal will suffer. We are saying that we are ready to go to Greece to help, to give a new loan, EUR 86 billion. But what does it mean to help this country? In fact, most of this 86 billion is simply going to be used for the redemption of old loans, and Greece itself has little left. There is another possibility, which the IMF director Christine Lagarde is increasingly speaking about, saying that we forgive old debts. But if it is a loan, as we were told today in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, it must be repaid as any other loan. When will Greece pay back this 86 billion? This was asked four times today in this Chamber, but there was no answer. The joint meeting of ELAK and the Committee on Monetary Affairs yesterday also asked for this several times, but there was no answer. What do we call it if we give a loan that is not going to be repaid? They say we do not need to worry, because Estonia's responsibilities do not grow. Then where does the ESM get that money? He gets it for bonds. Even if he says that Greece will probably pay back the bonds in 32 years' time, what gives us reason to believe that he will? For example, I personally imagine that in 32 years' time, I will receive an old-age pension from the Estonian state. But if it comes to that kind of guarantee, maybe they say it's too bad, but 32 years ago, they made the wrong choices. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U222	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U223	Mr. Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, The discussion of Greece's debt makes the pulse high like a trekirker. I'll start a little further. In my opinion, the most important thing about this whole issue is not the fiscal policy side, but the political side. It is a question of democracy in both Greece and Estonia. Mr Herkel has already pointed out this, and we have also spoken in the committee that this procedure is not normal parliamentary behaviour. The fact that, at the late hour of the weekend, we are being sent some foreign-language materials and some materials are still being found on the Commission's desk is that Parliament is turning into a rubber stamp. But most importantly, the Greek people voted down the aid package, which was more lenient than it is today, and afterwards the Greek Government turned its back on its people. With today's decision, we are contributing to the Greek Government's going against the will of its people. We, too, are undermining European democracy if we go along with it. In addition, there is, of course, an economic aspect. Helping Greece is unfair to the people of Estonia, and it is also unfair to the people of Greece. Greece has softer and simpler solutions, but of course they are not politically acceptable to certain circles. We note that if the guarantees granted by Estonia to earlier guarantees are added to today's decision through the ESM, then the Estonian taxpayer is already a guarantor of 530 million euros. The EUR 530 million will be pawned today if you vote for it. That's what comes together with earlier loans. That's a lot of money. To remind you of the spring debate on tax increases, the amounts that we achieved with the tax increases were considerably lower. Greece will pay back this money if everything goes according to the so-called green scenario or the beautiful scenario in about 2022, and this is from the EFSF. We don't know when he's gonna pay back the money from the ESM. Whether it's 2025 or 2030, no one really knows. That means we're giving out a bill of lading today. No normal person should do that. No country can give a bill of lading to a country like Greece. This is not the right solution. This has also been highlighted several times by the IMF, which has much more experience in situations such as those of Brussels officials or the European Central Bank. I would remind you that, if this aid package is approved, the European Central Bank will receive three and a half billion euros the day after tomorrow. I mean, he can't be impartial about this. The IMF has made it clear that, for Greece, such debt accumulation is unsustainable. Sooner or later Greece will be bankrupt, and sooner or later Greece will leave the euro zone. People who tell us blue-eyed that it's a question of faith live in fairy taleland. We do not need to increase our participation in the Greek bankruptcies, because this is at the expense of the well-being of the Estonian people. Now I am particularly addressing the smaller coalition parties. You were advertising yourself before the election with a slogan "For Men!'. Well, I don't know which people or the Estonian voters didn't really believe this slogan either, when they look at the results of the elections, but in any case, here, they do not stand up for the interests of the Estonian people or for the interests of the Greek people. Rather, it is the people of Brussels, the people of Frankfurt, the handful of merchants. This is not about standing up for the people of Estonia. The IRL has repeatedly indicated that they are not particularly in favour of such assistance or, if they are in favour, under very strict conditions. Such very ambivalent signals have been sent out. But actually, we know that when the time comes to vote, the IRL will do what the Reform Party says. However, the Reform Party will do as Brussels says. My colleague, Juhan Parts, was complaining here, as if the Estonian parliament members or the Estonian government were Angela Merkel's ceiling. But it is. Estonia is governed by lakes. I tell you: in this short scheme, all the current problems in Estonia have been summed up. Nothing gets better as long as the National Conservatories aren't in the government. But don't worry, this day will come. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U224	Thank you. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu, I ask you to remain correct and polite in your expressions. Let's keep going. Priit Sibul on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U225	Thank you. Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, After such a speech, it is as if there is nothing more to say, but every man is responsible for his own words. Of course, this is not an easy issue that we are discussing here today. There is hardly anyone in this Chamber who would not consider or discuss it with colleagues, friends and experts, or with themselves, in order to make the right decision today. This issue, at least for us in the IRL, is out of the framework of a purely fiscal issue and is much wider. It is a question of the single currency, its strength, its present and its future. This is a matter of unity, values and security in Europe, either a hand is handed to the needy or a door is slammed in front of its nose. Looking at the package agreed by the institutions, it should be clear to everyone that it is not about sowing money from an airplane. It is also true that the Greeks have long lived beyond their own strength. A package has been agreed which, if implemented, must help the Greeks out of a deep pit. Of course, we will not see these results in the coming years. It's a matter of two or thirty years. So we are discussing and resolving the issues that are important to ourselves here today, defending our currency risk. A strong euro guarantees us that pensions and wages can also buy something, that the single currency has as much purchasing power as possible. Of course, the question remains how and with whom the euro is stronger. A Horrible End or an Infinite Horror? The changes that have been agreed for today are quite powerful and weighty, but it is worth contributing to a stable Europe. Yesterday's news about Eastern Ukraine should remind each of us that there is too much of a crisis in Europe, we do not need the following. It should be equally clear that this is not about supporting Greek neo-communist populists. The reform proposals received the support of the majority of the Greek Parliament thanks to the opposition parties. This aid is not for the Greek authorities currently ruling, but for Greek society at large. Who knows better than we do that getting support for our aspirations is like a fresh breath of oxygen. So as long as there is even the least chance and light at the end of the tunnel, there is reason to believe, hope and support. Moreover, we will allocate aid in stages and support reforms. 'No' means the exclusion of the Greek people from the common European monetary zone and all that comes with it. Those who do this act like Syriza's radical wing. Greece is like an addicted family son. The new conditions are basically sending to Wismar for rehab and our aid package as bread and therapy. Our choice is whether we believe our family's son is capable of recovery or whether we simply write him down. With this, we'll write down what we've been betting on so far. For the IRL, there are still solid red lines in support of the Greek aid package. Firstly, the IRL is not willing to make any concessions to reduce Greece's existing loans; we do not accept writing in the stacks of debts. The Greeks must fulfil their obligations. If you collide the advantages and disadvantages of supporting the Greeks, it is more useful for the Estonian state to support their assistance. I am not talking here about soft values, such as humanity and solidarity, but I am referring to the single currency and saying that the unstable, weak and neo-communist Greece is a threat to the security of Europe and, in part, to the economy. There is nothing to be done, but unfortunately, Europe and Estonia have only bad and very bad choices. Extra turbulence and confusion in Greece would be too high a price to pay. We choose less bad and support the package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U226	Dear waitress, would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U227	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This smaller office, on which Kadri mentioned that in 2011 there was a plan to decide such matters there, is the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs, composed of representatives of all political groups and representatives of all committees. It was composed of 19 members of the Riigikogu from 2011 until the end of the previous term. That is why there is a representative of every political group on the European Union Affairs Committee, so that such important things and information about them are also shared with members of its group. At this point, I do not understand the criticism that some things have come as a surprise to many members of the Riigikogu. Indeed, this is an extraordinary circumstance and the translation was not completed until the weekend. But from the moment it was clear that Greece would withdraw from its agreement on this programme, which it had through the EFSF, the European Union Affairs Commission has discussed it almost every week and received fresh information. I hope that the representatives of all the political groups have also shared this information with their fellow group members. So, Andres Herkel, you have a representative at ELAK who should actually share this information with you. Now let's get down to business. We will immediately vote in this Chamber on whether to give Greece another opportunity and support their fresh reform programme, which is a prerequisite for a comprehensively developed third loan programme, or whether we will decide not to support it. Estonia's membership of the euro area means that we share both responsibility and responsibility for solidarity. If we leave Greece alone, not only the Greek people will suffer, but the credibility of the euro area as a whole, which we certainly cannot afford under the already fragile economic and security situation. We must do everything we can to restore economic growth, competitiveness and job creation in the euro area. This requires sustainable structural reforms that support growth and that we ourselves have been through, as do the former so-called programme countries, which have now successfully exited the aid programmes. If we look at, for example, Ireland, Cyprus, Spain or Latvia as an IMF programme country, we can say that such aid programmes have justified themselves. Greece was also on the right track with the support of previous programmes, and economic indicators improved until the beginning of this year. Until the end of 2014, Greece had a balanced public budget and a primary surplus of more than 3%, which is not the case for all euro area countries. It is a separate crime that there was still economic growth in Greece in the second quarter of this year. This shows that the populist government is able to bring one country to great difficulties very quickly, but positive decisions still have a certain inertia and will last. Here I am responding to the previous speaker, Kadri Samson. Indeed, in the meantime, elections were held in Greece, and the people chose to rule by the political forces that won the majority with populism and populist slogans. No democratic country is protected from fooling the people. But we do not have to punish the Greek people for this, because the last few months show that populist steps have led Greece to very serious difficulties. In the case of Greece's new reform programme, it must be borne in mind that it is set under very clear conditions. Greece must implement the agreed reforms, and they are primarily in Greece's own interests. Most of these reforms have been implemented in Estonia years ago. The best communication is this, so Greece must restore confidence in the actions, not in words. Before each new payment, it will be assessed how the agreement has been met. This is a major change compared to previous programmes. Several times today has been emphasised and asked why they have not fulfilled their promises in the past. They have never had such a condition that money against reforms. Debt write-off is not part of the programme and we are not prepared to discuss it either. The IMF has also promised that, after the first review of the programme, they will seriously consider taking part in it. For Estonia, consenting to the ESM does not mean additional costs and does not increase our debt burden. Moreover, out of the 53.7 billion programme, Greece will go to refinancing existing debts.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U228	Thank you. On behalf of my colleague, Mr Palling, on behalf of the Group of the Reform Party, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U229	So we are clearly talking about what the IMF has already said and what Mrs Merkel is saying about the fact that loans are forgiven. Let's not scare around the corner, as Igor Gräzin said, that if we don't give a new loan today, with which we're just going to extend the story of a loan, we're going to have to make cash. In fact, loans that we were not yet among the guarantors are being redeemed, because we were not in the euro zone, and they are already being redeemed with our guarantee. Mathematically, Greece will not be able to overcome the difficult situation without deleting debt. In addition to the opposition ambassadors, the calculated coalition ambassadors drew attention to this yesterday. It was acknowledged that if rhetorically said here that Greece's debt ratio was to decrease, it would have to decrease according to plans only in relation to GDP, not nominally. I do not think Greece will be burdened too much. On the contrary, for example, next year the Income Tax Act will introduce a joint and several additional tax which will help to make the income tax system more progressive. Let us remember what we did here in Estonia when we needed to save money. We all had tax increases, we had cuts in the social sphere and the income base of local governments. The ESM contribution is equal to what was taken away from the local governments' income base for five years in a row. Finally, solidarity is a beautiful thing and it is essential to show solidarity with those who comply with the agreements. In 2011, government ministers swore that Greece would keep its promises. However, we are in the same situation, the promises have not been fulfilled. After all, the promises that have been made in the last month will be reversed in one sitting if the power union in Greece changes and a different government is put in place, in the will expressed in the national elections. Speaking of security, NATO's base document states the principle that one for all and all for one. When we joined the euro, we were assured that foreign debts would not be borne by those who did not. The Centre Party has therefore not changed its position. As with the previous package, we do not give our vote of support, because we do not believe that Greece is actually able to bear its loan burden and pay back the loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U230	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U231	The big question is whether putting Greece on track and implementing the whole reform package under external pressure is conceivable in a situation where Greece's own people are in the last referendum and, as a result of the last elections, when Syriga came to power, unambiguously expressing socialist thinking, as one of the major critics of the current solution, Otmar Issing, has said. There are also questions raised by Mr Talvik. How, then, is democracy and the free will expressed by the people? Yes, we can criticise the question of the referendum. According to the Estonian Constitution, such a question could not be put to a referendum, but they also put and received a clear answer. These solutions, which we are now moving towards, go exactly in the opposite direction to what the results of the referendum require. What is contained in the memorandum, when you read all of its points, is in itself very nice, if the state is going to make things right, but it is still external pressure. You see, this parallel that I now bring is perhaps not very beautiful, but this review of the whole reform package reminds me of some great leap of Utopism that has always occurred in history. There was a big leap in China during Mao Zedong. During the Soviet Union, it was sometimes joked that there was a shift from feudalism to communism or socialism in Central Asia, by skipping some formwork. Today, it also seems to be the will to jump from one formation to another, or from a relatively early medieval thinking to an industrial revolution. But it may not work out that way. I would still recommend that everyone look at these Transparency International assessments, which describe the level of corruption in Greece. It ain't gonna end that easy in there. So an attempt to carry out these reforms through external pressure can bring such cataclysms that we do not currently foresee. This can be realized in the mental conditions of the next generations, which can be realized by the fact that one day the power of Tsipra will come to Tsipra 2. These things may not end as well as we have planned. Finally, the question of security, raised by the previous speaker, Mr Kalvi Kõrva, by the country of NATO, which now gets everything and the indication that maybe Russia could pay off these debts instead. I think that Russia does not have this capacity at the moment, and if you look a little more globally, there are some countries in the neighbourhood of Greece, and also Russia, which will then act as a balancing factor. I would not give priority to the security aspect here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-08-18_U232	Thank you. Mr Helme, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please! Five plus three minutes.
