ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U1	Greetings for strength! Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the 7th plenary session. First of all, there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates seven draft laws and eight draft decisions of the Riigikogu, a total of 15 drafts. I'll start with the draft laws. First, the draft law amending the Population Register Act, the Civil Status Act and the State Fees Act. In the Riigikogu, Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Packaging Act. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in its proceedings in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law on ratification of the International Labour Organisation Convention on Fishing (No 188). Fourthly, the draft law on the ratification of the ILO Maritime Labour Convention. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the processing of these two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act. Sixth, the bill to amend the rail law. The seventh draft law amending the Electronic Communications Act and the Product Compliance Act. Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the above three draft laws in the Riigikogu. And now the draft decision of the Riigikogu. Firstly, the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state within the NATO response forces. Secondly, the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on a peace-building mission in Kosovo. Third, the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med. Fourthly, the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali. Fifthly, the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State by contributing to this for the first time to an international military operation led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or the United Nations. Sixthly, the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on the training and counselling mission in Afghanistan. Seventhly, the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on the UN peacekeeping mission in Lebanon. And eighthly, the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria. Hannes Hanso, the Minister of Defence, represents the Government of the Republic when dealing with these eight draft decisions of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U3	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I would like to make an inquiry. This is a topic that is very topical and important in Estonian society, namely the liquidation of Estonian Air. As with any problem or classic situation, there are two questions: who is guilty and what to do next? The first question is quite dim. Nobody's responsible for what's been going on with Estonian Air for years, all pointing the finger at someone else. But we need to find out how we've gotten into this situation. When the organization was loss-making for years, of course, we all hoped that one day he would make a profit again. But it didn't. And it all ended with a decision coming from the European Commission, which basically bankrupted the Estonian national airline in one day. Of course, leadership has made mistakes. We can argue about them and discuss them, but the fact is, the airlines are no longer here. I think we need to find out who's responsible. The second question is what to do next. Now the company has been created according to the same principles as Estonian Air. Can a new airline win its position on the market? That, too, is still unclear. We want answers to these questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U5	Mikhail Korb, it would be nice if you could tell me who the question is being handed over to.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U6	I'm sorry! The inquiry is for Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U7	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U8	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I have two questions, and by that I am, of course, more original than the Centre Party. But the subject is the same: Estonian Air is dead, live Estonian Air! Our inquiries, i.e. the Free Party, are addressed to the Minister of Economic Affairs Kristen Michal and the Auditor General. We also want to know how errors in state aid occurred. We want clarity in the whole story because, in the current vague, unclear situation, many things certainly seem to be very much, also because they do not know what has happened and what the plan for the future is, figuratively speaking, as a carry-on. To avoid this or to learn the truth, we ask two important people for answers. There are seven questions in one question and eight in the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U9	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U10	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, I present a question to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas about the suitability of Juhan Parts for the European Audit Office. Estonian Air's insolvency and systematic mismanagement are, of course, the responsibility of the entire government, but above all the responsibility of the Minister for Industry. Juhan Parts became Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications in April 2007 and remained present until March 2014. It was during the part that Estonian Air was renationalised and repeated injections of funds were made to prevent bankruptcy of the company, as well as the selection of exceptionally unsuccessful personnel to the Estonian Air Board as well as to the position of CEO. He will be responsible for the disruptions in Elron's start-up and the inability to ensure smooth passenger train traffic. The Minister is also responsible for the failed risk projects of Eesti Energia's top cost in Jordan and the USA. During his appointment as minister, the continuous exchanges of CEOs took place in EAS, and the institution was thrown out of politicisation and inappropriate funding. We cannot forget, too, that Minister Parts completely missed the abuses in the Road Administration by releasing the head of office only after the scandals that appeared in the media. We are therefore asking who has been considered by the government to represent Estonia to the European Audit Office. What are the criteria for the Prime Minister and the Government to perform this function? For what reasons does Prime Minister Juhan Parts consider the European Court of Auditors to be the competent person? Does the Prime Minister realise that the aforementioned and many other failures during Juhan Parts' career make him unfit to serve in the public eye and that his candidacy seriously undermines people's sense of justice? What does political responsibility mean for the Prime Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U11	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U12	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian Conservative People's Party reports to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure about the insolvency of Estonian Air and the launch of the new national company Nordic Aviation. Due to the insolvency of Estonian Air, the Estonian taxpayer has had to bear quite a lot of costs and watch over unprofessional management. We fear that there is a risk that the new national airline will repeat the same mistakes that led to the termination of Estonian Air. We are therefore asking what budgetary resources the state has already spent and is planning to spend in the future. In what way does the Nordic Aviation Group's business plan differ from that of Estonian Air in order to prevent a repeat of the same scenario? How is it ensured that the new company will not become aware in a few years' time that the money placed there will be banned from State aid? Has the Ministry carried out an analysis of the events leading to the closure of Estonian Air? If so, what conclusions have been reached? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U13	I hope that the authors of the inquiry will still be members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U14	Did I say something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U15	The party cannot submit an inquiry. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U16	President-in-Office of the Council. Good Riigikogu! Prime Minister! We present an inquiry to Minister of Foreign Affairs Marina Kaljuranna. On November 3, the evening paper published the article "Rassism touches us all" by the interim Embassy of the United States, Chever Voltmer. This article was not the position of a reed diplomat or just one of the Americans in Estonia on some of the events that took place in our country, but the opinion of the highest official in the United States of America about what is happening in Estonia. The article mentions alleged assaults on American military personnel, for which the public has not received reliable information, but also condemns the mink lessons. We therefore ask the Foreign Minister to answer the following questions: Is the interference of an external diplomat in Estonia's internal affairs in accordance with international practice and the Vienna Diplomatic Convention? To what extent is it consistent with the diplomat's claim that the European mink study that caused the discussion in our public is undisguisedly racist? Don't you consider the US diplomat's objection to the film as interference in our country's internal affairs? Do we have to treat a diplomat's article as a threat that the US will abandon the NATO Treaty?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U17	Thank you. Time's up. The Bureau received 15 drafts and 6 inquiries. All of them will be delivered on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Please, let's do the presence check! 86 members of the Riigikogu are present and 15 are missing. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the 7th working week of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of approving the agenda, there is no one against, there are two abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U18	First of all, an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Siret Kotka, Lauri Laas, Marika Tuus-Laul, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Dmitri Dmitriev, Enn Esemaa, Tarmo Tamm, Olga Ivanova, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Karilaid, Priit Toobal, Aadu Must, Viktor Vassilyev, Peeter Ernits, Mikhail Korb and Mailis Reps. On behalf of the heirs Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Central Party Group have submitted an inquiry to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas concerning the closure of Omniva's post offices. If, in mid-November of last year, Urve Palo, then Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, confirmed that there would be no large-scale closure of post offices in rural areas, now, less than a year later, it is quite a different story. Omnival plans to close all remaining post offices in the next five years. But the news about Eesti Post or Omniva gets even darker because this summer, August, Kristen Michal, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure of the Reform Party, announced that the Estonian Post should even be sold or privatized. Looking at this policy, it is clear that the priority of the current government is not to keep life in the countryside. The closure of every land post office hits the local population more painfully than closing a post office in a larger centre. This will certainly increase unemployment in a country where we already lack jobs. According to TNS Emor, one in six residents, or some 177000 people, visit the post office at least once a month. Data show that people in smaller cities and rural settlements visit the post office more frequently than average. Compared to other regions, rural areas have a somewhat higher number of people who go to the post office to make payments, as well as those who have bought other goods from them. Thus, the presence of post offices is essential for rural people. This is why we have asked five questions to which we are awaiting answers today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U20	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to the inquiry on 13 October on Omniva's post offices. The first question: 'The Minister of Economy and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal, came up with the idea of privatising the state company Omniva. In addition, the Communication Manager of Omniva, Erki Varma, has announced that post offices will no longer exist in five years' time. How and for what reasons has such an anti-rural decision been made? ' AS Eesti Post has not sent a message about the closure of post offices in any of its messages. However, there has been talk about the movement of postal services to places belonging to the partners' postal points to be actively used by people. This is a process that has been going on for the last five years and will continue in the future. It aims to provide a more accessible and better service for people. It should be noted that the total number of post offices and post offices has remained unchanged in recent years. The post office is also a post office within the meaning of the Postal Act, but its owner may not always be Eesti Post. There is nothing extraordinary about the fact that post offices do not belong to a postal company elsewhere in the world. For example, Denmark has over 900 post offices where postal services are provided by Danish postal partners. The Danish Post owns only 30 post offices. There are only two post offices in the Netherlands from 2550, and 52 post offices in Ireland from 1572. The number of points providing postal services in Estonia has recently increased considerably. In addition to post offices and post offices, packages can also be sent and received through 104 Omniva parcel terminals. The aim is to reach rural areas with a network of parcel terminals. According to the current plan, 26 new automatics will be installed in the near future, 15 of them in rural areas. In addition, Omniva started a pilot project in cooperation with Statoil, and if successful, Statoil service stations across Estonia will be equipped with Omniva postal terminals. The second question: 'Many rural residents see the loss of post offices as another attempt to kill rural areas, as the possibility of using postal services on the ground, as well as other necessary services (such as banking services), often provided by land post offices, is lost. Why has it been decided to punish people living in the countryside and make their quality of life worse in connection with the closure of Omniva's post offices? ' The universal postal service provider is entrusted with the task of ensuring consistent, high quality and affordable delivery of postal services throughout the territory of Estonia. In addition to post offices and post offices, postal services can also be consumed via a letter carrier. If a person lives more than five kilometres from the nearest post office or post office, inviting a mail carrier home is free of charge. If you look at the banking services you have referred to, especially the availability of cash in rural areas, the TNS Emor survey shows that only 1% of the people interviewed have gone to the post office to withdraw cash in the last year. The solution created by Eesti Post to order cash at home with a mail carrier has also been used only twice in six months, when this service has been available. So, unfortunately, your claim that post offices are used very often for cash withdrawals or other banking transactions is not statistically correct and according to polls. The third question: 'There must now be one post office providing universal postal service in the territory of each municipality. Depending on the number of inhabitants, there is a risk that the post office will simply be abolished after the rural municipalities join. How do you think such a situation will contribute to rural development and administrative reform? ' Nearly half of the post offices currently owned by Eesti Post have fewer than four postal transactions per day. As the volume of shipments sent as simple consignments shows a steady downward trend, compliance with the requirements for the maintenance of the postal network for the provision of the universal postal service has become an increasingly loss-making activity for the undertaking providing the service. In 2014, the losses in this business area amounted to EUR 2,3 million. If a post office is visited by a single customer per day, it is reasonable to consider whether to take postal services to the post office where people visit more. The post office may be located, for example, in a shop in the region or in another place often visited. It is possible to modernise more visited post offices and to develop the provision of services throughout the network. Of course, from the point of view of the state, the main thing is that the postal service is available and its quality is as good as possible throughout Estonia. Question 4: 'As Omniva intends to privatise in the coming years, this is likely to lead to a rise in the price of postal services and a cessation of the provision of loss-making services. Consequently, the question for you: how does the state intend to ensure the quality and affordability of postal services in rural areas in the future? The decision to privatise Eesti Post has not yet been taken. I am of the opinion that all state-owned private companies do not necessarily have to be 100% state-owned. It should be noted here that one side of Eesti Post is the provision of universal postal services, which is also due to the obligations imposed on the public limited company, but the other side is the logistics business and parcel delivery business, which can be called Omniva in general, and parcel delivery is not necessarily the core function of the state. So I am also open to considering which forms of ownership are most useful from a taxpayer's point of view and in terms of quality of service. If you look around elsewhere in Europe, there are a variety of postal service models in different countries. Of course, there are also countries where the postal services company is owned by the state, as is currently the case in Estonia. But there are at least eight countries, including the Netherlands, Germany, Great Britain and Austria, where the postal company is either partially or wholly privatised. And in these countries, the state is always clearly in the role of regulator and lays down the precise conditions to be met by the postal service provided. Question 5: 'The coalition agreement provides for the creation of new jobs outside Tallinn and Tartu. Most post offices are located outside Tallinn and Tartu and by closing them you will not create new jobs but reduce them. Why do you not stand up for people living outside Tallinn and Tartu, but want to take jobs away from them? " One of the great concerns of post offices in small places is finding a workforce. For example, when a person falls ill or quits his or her job, it is usually very difficult to replace him or her with a new employee. In such places, it is possible to cooperate with a local business shopkeeper, for example, and to offer a more convenient postal service to shop workers on the one hand and to local people on the other. Rather, opening post offices to local entrepreneurship has a healing effect. Opening a post office is an opportunity for a local person to do something to make life on the ground develop. The restructuring of the postal network would also strengthen the capacity of Eesti Post to recruit workers in rural areas, as the restructuring would create the possibility to offer people full working time instead of working with part-time work that is often used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U22	Questions for the Prime Minister. Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I didn't quite understand your answer as to whether the idea of Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal to sell Omniva was the idea of the Reform Party or whether it was the idea of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U24	I think Kristen Michal can say that himself. This is definitely his idea, and it is an idea that deserves to be considered very seriously. Because if we want the quality of the service to be as good as possible, and if we want all modern options to be used to provide the service, we should not close our eyes to all options in the beginning. So I agree with Kristen Michal as both the head of government and the chairman of the Reform Party, so that we may, in part or in full, consider involving other owners of the company Eesti Post. We could discuss whether there are any service sectors that should continue to be state-owned. We could discuss whether the state should remain a shareholder in the company, because it can be either a majority or a minority shareholder. But we could also discuss whether the involvement of an investor would generate revenue for customers and whether it would bring added value to the taxpayer's wallet. We have competition in the parcel market in Estonia and there are also private companies, such as DPD, which offer high-quality door-to-door services. This shows that it does not necessarily have to be a company which the State must have, but it can also operate very successfully on market terms, profitablely. Estonian Post has also taken very long steps to ensure that the parcel services side, which is not in the classical sense, is historically a very common postal service, but is gaining more and more market coverage, is very modern. We know that 51% of the people visiting the post office are going to come and get a package. But when Emor questioned people, most of them said they'd rather take their package out not from the post office, but from some of the delivery machines at the mall. People like to keep up with the times, people like to have postal services getting closer to them. If we're really thinking now, the service is more important than the office. If the service is brought to the person on the trajectory where it moves, it is certainly one of the places where people visit very often, a shop, i.e. a much more frequent shop in both rural and urban areas than in the post office, it is much more convenient. It can also be said from surveys that if postal services can be obtained from shops in the future, it is acceptable for people, because in this case everything is in one place for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U25	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Last November, your government's Minister for Economic Affairs, Urve Palo, confirmed that there will be no closure of post offices in rural areas. Now, a little later, your government's new Minister of Economic Affairs made a U-turn. What important information became known to the government after last November to make such a U-turn?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U27	Thank you. No, I don't think it's a heel turn. As I said, the post office is also a post office within the meaning of the law, because it is a place that provides postal services. The question is that the post office is called the building which is owned by Eesti Post and which has a large orange label 'Post'. However, the post office may also be owned by a partner; it may be located on the same ground as a shop, for example. I believe that, as a rational person, you will certainly agree with me that if there are very many post offices in Estonia where only four transactions are made all day long, this is not a very rational use of taxpayers' money, especially if there is a shop, a parish house or another establishment nearby, where people are going anyway. If it is possible to combine these two things effectively and thus save taxpayers' money, provide a more comprehensive and better service, then we should not refuse to consider it. People on the ground have also confirmed that they would be interested in receiving postal services from shops, an area where they visit closely. As I have already pointed out several times, TNS Emor has carried out quite a thorough study. On this basis, I believe, it is possible to improve the postal network, so people will only win.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U28	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U29	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! You're here before Siret Eagle's question that Michal can answer better. You later explained that you also like the idea of privatization. But I also did not receive an answer as to whether the privatisation of Eesti Post was government policy or not government policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U30	Thank you. I answered Siret Eagle's question about exactly where Kristen Michal had the idea. Indeed, he can answer that more accurately than I can. But I also said that I consider ideas worthy of consideration, and I certainly wouldn't start attacking it, just as the Centre Party has done in its questioning. I understand that your question is whether this is a policy agreed by the government and whether a decision has already been made to include a private investor in Estonian Post, in part or in full. The answer is no. We have not decided this, and it is not a policy agreed by the government, but it is certainly something that could be considered precisely in order to provide the maximum good service. There were times when the Estonian Telephone, for example, belonged to the state. Now, as Elion's client, many of you may agree that a private owner can provide a very high quality service and has also been able to offer services that were certainly not possible when the state was the owner. Technological progress has been followed up. Competition will take place in a market where there are, for example, Starman and several other players. It is a free market and every customer can decide which private service provider he chooses. I think for many, it also seemed a little while ago that the state company Eesti Telefon was once privately owned, completely taboo topic. I remember those times, too, when in this house where there is now a hotel called Telegraph, there was a communication switch station and when I made the call, I had to connect the communications lines through the switchboard. We've been moving on ever since. I think that involving a private owner in the case of the Estonian Telephone was a reasonable decision at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U31	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Do you think it's better for the quality and health of local life to talk about rumors and village news in a post office or on a bench behind a village store?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U33	Thank you. I believe that you are certainly a bigger expert on gossip than I am, so I do not think it appropriate to express an opinion on this matter here. However, I would stress that if a state or a state-owned company is to set up an establishment to provide a service, it is up to this company to find the best possible way to reach the person. Even if people have a great nostalgia in connection with a post office, no post office can replace the service provided to people there. If there is a choice between keeping the house and services dry up or bringing them to a new level and providing additional services, as has been done in the case of mail, and moving the services to, for example, the premises of a store or a rural municipality, I think it is reasonable to move towards bringing the services closer to people so that they can have the best access to postal services in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U34	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U35	Thank you. The services provided by Eesti Post include the rerouting of letters and mail. At the moment, it can be done within five days. If you announce today that you would like to receive a post at another address in the future, it will take five days. If it's a weekend, it'll take seven days. Do you think this is normal speed for our fast connections today?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U36	Thank you. I do not consider it appropriate, as head of government, to comment on the company's work placements or deadlines for operations. Neither you nor I know exactly what actions are needed to reroute the address. But if you feel that this time is too long, I suggest you report it to the institution of which you are a customer, in this case to the Estonian Post. At the same time, I would like to point out that it is far from being the Estonian Post, but it is also one of the companies that provides this service, for example Express Post. Express Post, as you probably know, is not state-owned, it's a private company. You may have confused these two companies, but that's what you can tell for yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U37	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U38	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Mr. Prime Minister! Contrary to your claim, the Centre Party is not attacking you dirtyly through the Estonian Post or Omniva, it is asking questions, because we want to know what is going on. Estonian Post made 2,3 million losses a year, Estonian Air produced 50 times more and you kept shoveling money there like a burning furnace and finally you created a scheme for which a smaller company would have been shut down, i.e. assets were transferred out of the bankruptcies. But you decided to sell the Estonian Post, or Omniva, completely honestly. A private investor can't shovel money in there and shut down the post offices. Why do you have such a different attitude to two state companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U39	First of all, let such claims be on your conscience. They were certainly not accurate, especially as regards the figures and which can be assessed objectively. But for me, these are two completely separate issues. It is true that for a long time, Estonian Air was in a loss-making position. Although, at different times, different governments have had the conviction that the European Commission could obtain authorisation to grant State aid, the weekend brought the ultimate knowledge that it had not been granted. We can argue about this decision, we may be dissatisfied about it, but we have no choice but to consider that now we need to find new opportunities. First of all, people, those who have flown to different destinations with Estonian Air, must be brought home from abroad and opportunities should be created as soon as possible to enable air connections to continue. In my opinion, there is a very big difference as to whether the people of Estonia will have to fly through Riga to all destinations in the future, for example, or whether we will also have a reasonable amount of direct connections. The direct connection has a very strong advantage. People who often fly know why it is important not only for the comfort of the passenger, but also because economic activity is as active as possible. As we know, even if the airline is loss-making, its positive impact on the very dense air links economy as a whole will certainly be more pronounced. Experts have also provided figures for this, and they estimate that the differences are many dozens. Therefore, I would focus first and foremost on how to get wind to the wings of the new company so that the people of Estonia can fly to as many places as possible from Tallinn directly. Of course, 'as many as possible' means that the limits that market conditions allow must be taken into account. Of course, we do not want to repeat the mistakes that have been made in the past, so there is a reason to learn from them. Only then can we devote our energy to looking for guilty people or mistakes, or whatever you want. In my opinion, it is far more important than anyone's personal crucifixion to understand what choices were wrong than the passion I have seen for the culprits I have seen for all opposition parties. Efforts must be made to avoid and learn from mistakes at the time. It's far more important to me than to write 'guilty' behind someone's name. Clearly, mistakes were made. It is also clear that they did their best to keep the company flying. It is now up to us to ensure that the new company has its own identity, its brand, its own feeling, and a temporary solution created as soon as possible, which I think is impressive. As customers of Estonian Air, we have all had a pleasant opportunity to get on a plane that welcomes the Estonian language and gives fresh Estonian-language pages. This is a great value and I think it must continue to be so in the future. Let's give the company some time to settle in. I think it is in the interests of all of us, in the interests of the whole Estonian society, that the new company succeeds. Therefore, I ask you to avoid exultation, even if something happens that happens sometimes in aviation, for example, some aircraft is going to fail. There's no point in gloating. The new company got on its feet very quickly. The first flights were made very quickly, the next day. We are sympathetic to them, not feeling sorry if something goes wrong in the beginning. Let's hope they don't get hurt.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I believe you've calculated all these things nicely in Excel. Maybe some post office isn't profitable. But when we talk about promoting rural areas, that cannot be the only argument. The fact that post office machines will be placed in Statoil is great, but most Estonian villages do not have Statoil. You may find it incredible, but many do not have a car to drive to the nearest Statoil. I'm gonna ask you this way. What exactly does this Excel show about how many post offices you plan to close down over the next year and how many people will actually lose their jobs?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U41	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U42	Thank you. I believe you are aware that post offices are mostly not in villages, but rather in parish centers and a little larger settlements. If we see that there are no few places and there are very few places to visit the post office during the day, just a few people and on average only four postal transactions are carried out, then it is not a question of profitability. Then we need to see if the post office is located in the area where people want to use postal services, or if they are more comfortable to use services, for example, in a nearby shop where more frequent visits are taking place. It must be examined whether it is possible to cooperate with a local private operator. As has been said, the aim is not to reduce the number of post offices. In fact, if you add up post offices and post offices, then in the future, as I understand the plans of Eesti Post, there will be exactly as many post offices and post offices as there is now. In addition, parcel terminals, which cover a very large part of postal services, may be added. As has been said, more than 51% of the people who enter the post office come to get the package, but it is much more convenient to use it in a nearby parcel machine. If we can bring the services closer to the people with these reorganisations, I think this is a very sensible direction. We should not nostalgically miss the house of the post office, but rather make sure that the services are even closer to people and that their quality is better in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U43	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Speaking of the Estonian Post, it is not only a commercial company that takes packages home, but it also has a regional political role to play in the puzzle of the whole country, so that life can also be done outside the big cities. Estonian Post is actually a profitable company in itself, if taken as such, and pays dividends to the state. My question is about Kristen Michal's sales idea, which is surprising. Why do we want to sell a company that makes a profit for the state? If we sell it, in the future, we'll still have to buy a service from him so that letters and newspapers can be delivered to the country. So there is a certain cash flow, because the state will pay the company for the services. Then why do it at all? What good ideas does the state have, and what should we do with this possible sale of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U45	Thank you. First of all, you are right that, apart from the parcel service, which is a very large part of the services provided by Eesti Post, Eesti Post, as a universal service provider, still has the tasks imposed by law. They will not go away even if the owners of Eesti Post are included in part or in all of their private capital. I consider private capital at least equivalent to public capital and, in certain circumstances, even preferable. The general logic for state-owned enterprises is that it is essential to keep them in public ownership, whether for security policy or for other very important reasons. From history we also remember those phases in which all companies have been state-owned, starting with the production of candy and ending with the milk combined. Today, however, private capital has often brought added value to businesses. Many state-owned companies have received winds from private capital. There are also dozens of examples from the recent past or the last few decades, where private capital has given the company a new breathing and has brought the service to a whole new level. One parallel I've already brought is a telephone service. I dare say that Elion, as a private company, is able to provide the service that was once offered by the state-owned Estonian Telephone, even better than the Estonian Telephone in its day. Of course, technology has also evolved, but still, the private owner has brought known-hows and new developments. So I don't think it's right to stand up to clogged feet against any form of property. All of them could be considered as an alternative. The only companies in which private property should be completely excluded are those that are important to the state for security reasons or for other strategic reasons, such as a natural monopoly. In certain cases, the exclusion of sales may be justified. Whether or not such arguments exist in the case of Eesti Post should be identified during the discussion. I certainly would not consider this debate to be a taboo subject. We are still looking for the best possible solution for people to make the company work in the best possible way. I don't think it's right to rule out any solution in the bud.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U46	In the case of inquiries, a member of the Riigikogu is able to ask one oral question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U47	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! Your answers are from time to time, and quite often, deep nostalgia to Soviet time. Given your age competing with Methuselah, perhaps even on December 1, 1924, you defended the telegraph building against the red attackers. So these are, of course, very valuable observations you have from all Soviet times. But the question still concerns Omniva. If the government intends to privatise this company, have any calculations been made as to how much the cost of postal services will rise on the free market? You should be interested in that, because in the run-up to the next elections, you will certainly start to make a lot of direct mail with new promises and they will probably become more expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U48	Thank you. I may be much younger than you, but I still have a pretty sharp memory. I do remember how long-distance calls were made at 08 and, in certain cases, 07, but that is not the main thing at the moment. I also remember that the illusion of administered prices through a planned economy was not, in fact, a functioning economic model, but a chronic deficit. This caused stagnation and the fact that the price might have been relatively low in theory, but the goods that could have been bought for it were a little bit too low. I don't think there's a single person in this room who doesn't remember. However, in the case of today's economic model, if the market is functioning when there is competition and service providers compete for the market, in most cases it is more likely to have a downward effect on prices. So I am not aware of any pricing plans that Eesti Post could have, but let's just say that the impact of a functioning free market on prices is such that they fall rather than rise.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U49	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U50	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. The question was very clear: what will happen to general market prices if we go down the path of privatisation? At the moment, that part was incomprehensible. Your speech gives the impression that privatisation of public enterprises is in any case best, as it creates better quality of service and cheaper service provision. However, correct me if I, as well as a large part of the public, have the wrong impression that we are currently trying to use a very poor style of governance, bankrupt public enterprises and then come up with the pretext that we must privatise these companies, because the state is a bad host. I think that it is not the state that is a bad master, but that very many mistakes have been made and that companies have not deliberately been brought to profit. So maybe you can explain what happens at prices when we privatise public companies and whether this is always the best option.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U51	Thank you. As your colleague and the former general meeting of Eesti Post noted in the identity of the Minister of Economic Affairs, if I remember correctly, the Estonian Post as a whole is still a profitable company. I do not see any reason why private property should lead to an increase in prices. I am absolutely not opposed to the opening of a debate on which companies ownership is strategically essential for the state and where private capital can be mobilised. I am absolutely not opposed to analysing all aspects through.. whether we see any risk in one direction or another, we see an opportunity to lower prices, or we see the possibility that competition brings better quality. I stress once again that a large part of the services provided by Eesti Post are already offered by other players on the market. Packing is far from a monopolistic business, for example by DPD and a number of other market players. Let's take another example. Newspapers are not a monopolistic business either. Express Post is also on this market, as I already mentioned in my reply to Marika Tuus. So it is not the case that when a private operator operates in some areas, he is automatically more expensive than a state-owned company. Moreover, there are rules in the European Union that the country must not apply dumping prices through its own companies. Where a State-owned company operates on a free market, it must set a pricing policy such that it cannot be considered as dumping. Here too, the answer is that it is highly unlikely that the company will be able to carry out cross-subsidisation on a very large scale, regardless of its ownership, or to continue to operate on the market, i.e. to provide a market-based service in a way that is cheaper than, for example, the costs necessary to provide the service. So all aspects must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U52	Thank you, Prime Minister. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U53	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, From the rural point of view of Estonia, it is extremely sad to note that the Reform Party Minister Kristen Michal has come up with the idea of privatising Omniva, the former Estonian Post. Today we have heard that the Prime Minister shares the same idea. There is no doubt that postal services prices will increase when they enter the private hands of the postal operator and post offices will be closed. I think this is the reality that awaits us all. The current Estonian Post, or Omniva, is a state company that belongs to all of us, i.e. the people of Estonia. Omniva's main objective is to provide postal services throughout the country primarily for Estonian residents. Thus, as a public undertaking, Omniva pursues a different purpose than any private company. It needs to be understood that when a private company thinks only of profit, the welfare of the population must take precedence for a state enterprise and only then will the profit come. If there are even several post offices in some cities and maybe no one will even notice them in the city photo, then the land post office has a significantly bigger role to play in local life. We also feel it as a socialisation site for older people. Thus, the closure of each country post office hits the local community several times more painfully than the closure of an office in a larger centre. What will happen if the Estonian Post, or Omniva, goes into private hands and land offices are closed? It's no secret that a lot of post offices in the country are economically down. Often, the maintenance of post offices in the countryside has been possible at the expense of the profits of post offices in large centres. This has been a normal practice, and that is what we call one part of regional policy. However, if the Estonian Post goes into private hands, there will no longer have to be any solidarity. Post offices that are not profitable will simply be closed down. In this way, we can only see post offices in larger cities or settlements in the future, but certainly no longer in rural areas, not to mention villages. While Eesti Post currently employs about 2250 employees, in the future most of them can be expected to be made redundant due to privatisation. Ladies and gentlemen, There is, in fact, a completely different policy. This is the opposite of closing post offices; it is the opposite of the Reform Party's policy; it is the opposite of firing employees; it is the opposite of selling out the Estonian Post, or Omniva, a popular company. In 2005, when the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications was Edgar Savisaar, he did not close post offices but opened them. The priority was very clearly that the country existed in the country, that it provided jobs and full social support. So a different policy is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U54	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U55	Honorable Chairman! Prime Minister! Colleagues! I didn't mean to say 'celebrity' earlier, but 'course talk'. When post offices disappear, village stories and village news mostly go to the store. Maybe the only reason Maali goes to the mail machine is because there's also Juta. Maybe Juta and Painting are sending a mail to get together. You don't know that. But now they have to go to the store where Kaarel and Peter are, who are talking about a fisherman's story, like a block-beer. But the painting doesn't want to meet at the bock beer. Why are you taking away his other chance? The post office is a place of socialization. And the village shop is the hardest place to talk about, because where else will you find out what a neighbor's disease is and what illness a neighbor's wife or how to help a neighbor's man, when to make talcums, when to carry trees, etc. You're just taking that opportunity away. Speaking of rumours, you, Mr Minister, have produced a new version of the rumour with answers to your questions today, at least 80-100. One question was asked, but you put the other cap away. Speaking of demagoguery, the thing is, as a schoolteacher, I can't accept such answers until I die. In the case of the Estonian language essay, it is said that one point and a re-examination are out of the question. That's all I can say. Please don't take life away from the country! It's up to us to bring life to the country and keep it there. A man doesn't have to live on his farm, in his safety ditch. A person must live with another person because he is a social being, a social animal. Mr. Minister! I don't want to live in a citadel. I want to live in the Republic of Estonia, talk to people, say hello by the hand and sometimes make naughty jokes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U56	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U57	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk about Omniva's services. It is clear that these services are bad because Omniva, the earlier Estonian Post, has failed. I don't think there's any point in talking about closing down post offices because there's almost nothing left of them. That the post offices are better and that people will win, as the Prime Minister says, I do disagree. Because if the post office is a beautiful white space, where other items are sold and where people can walk, then the post office often consists only of table and chair, that is all. Let me give you an example. There was a nice post office in Kuremaa, Jõgeva County. People went there, everybody was excited before Christmas, moping. But then it was lost, and the post office was replaced. This service was made to the castle of Kuremaa and nothing else came there at the door in the cold was only an old-fashioned ugly table and chair, even postage stamps were initially not sold there. By now, this point has finally been closed. So the post office is actually the so-called interim phase before everything is closed, the service is closed. When we talk about postal buses, which were once proposed to replace post offices, there was only one in Estonia as of spring this year. Exactly what it's like right now, I can't tell you and I don't know if there are any more. I asked the Prime Minister about the transfer of mail. It is true that if you want to direct your pages or letters to another address, it will take five working days. If it falls on the weekend, it will take seven days to order today, in a week's time. I don't think that's normal. After all, the Estonian Post serves the person on Earth. We are currently mainly talking about the grounding situation, because the situation in Tallinn is completely different here is also Express Post. So although the Prime Minister said that he did not comment on Omniva's work placement, it is embarrassing to talk about the speed of the connection. I also did a TV show on the subject, and I had a conversation with the head of the mail service division. He also said the week was too long. They said they'd fix it, but it's still the same. Of course, everyone in this hall is familiar with newspapers, maps, flyers, direct mail and blindmail. That, in turn, is embarrassing. People order them, pay a lot of money for cards, etc., because it is an exceptionally expensive service. Finally, the mailmen say that they have nowhere to put them, that they have nothing to do with them. They'll tell you more and then you'll lose. If you know, in the old days the Estonian-language and Russian-language materials could be directed to different mailboxes, they could be separated. There was a service like this, but it's very expensive again. Currently Omniva answers you that there are no boxes of Russian-language letters in the rural municipality of Lake Peipsi, for example, and there are no boxes of Russian-language letters in Northern Tallinn. These are the official answers. The Estonian Post employee says that we are no longer separating anything, we cannot say anything about it. The mailmen once knew what to do, but now they don't know, that kind of service was just lost. When we talk about prices again, the services of Eesti Post are expensive and have become more expensive all the time. At the end of last year, 55 cents rose again by sending a note or a card. Who's sending them? Older people, of course. It hurts to watch them send a card on a shivering hand, but the wallet just can't stand it all. So there's nothing to talk about, the services have gone completely down. The state should intervene, but it doesn't. I am not going to talk separately about the abolition of rural areas or regional policy, because it has not been interested in our country in a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U58	Is there anything the Prime Minister would like to add? No, I don't. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U59	The next question is submitted by Riigikogu members Andres Herkel, Külliki Kübarsepp, Krista Aru, Jüri Adams, Monika Haukanõm, Artur Talvik and Andres Ammas. Andres Herkel on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U60	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! To begin with, we would like to thank the Prime Minister for the operationality with which he came to answer the question. In the worst case, the answer to the questions could have delayed the third reading of the state budget, and that would certainly not have been the case for the respondents. So thank you for that! Now, on to the subject. When the Minister for Finance answered our questions at first reading on 20 and 21 October, there was a systematic lack of answers. The members of the Free Party Group in various variations asked the same question, which can be summarised in the following words: where exactly will the optimism and growth planned for the coming year come from? We discovered that the Minister of Finance did not give much reason for this in his replies. Rather, it seemed that he had a wise man in his pocket who said that experts said so and could have used even more optimistic expertise. In our opinion, however, the government itself should be able to justify, without referring to the higher authority, where growth comes from and how these forecasts have been brought together. From the questions we have asked, I believe that what is particularly important is optimism on the increase in exports. While exports of goods and services have fallen by half in 2015, the planned increase of 3.5% for the coming year and 5,0% for the following years and 5,5% still seems quite optimistic. In particular, in view of the fact that the volume of industrial production is decreasing according to Statistics Estonia, the sales of production for export are decreasing, the economies of the exporting countries Finland and Russia are in decline. We also looked at the European Commission's autumn forecast as of this month and there is no way to understand where this optimism comes from. We are also asking about the level of inflation. This year, it has been more of a deflation, and if we assume that it does not go so easily into inflation, we will have a particular question about inflation in the second half of next year. Let's ask how high it might be. Does the rise in excise duties really lead to such a sharp rise in inflation? We also do not understand how social tax revenues will increase by 4.8% next year if wages are optimisticly planned to increase by 4%. At the same time, the government estimates that 4000 people will leave the labour market every year and we estimate that the pace of exit will be even faster. Please also answer these questions. Finally, we found inconsistencies in the budget explanatory memorandum and background documents regarding the increase in tax revenues. We ask the Prime Minister to respond to the exact forecast of tax receipts and to the increase in receipts compared to this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U61	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U62	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Thank you for your questioning and I will answer all the questions that have been put in order. The first question: 'If exports of goods and services are in decline in 2015, the increase will be 3.5 per cent in 2016 and 5.0 and 5.5 per cent in the following years. " Here you refer to page 9 of the 2016 explanatory memorandum to the state budget. 'How is such an increase in exports possible in an environment where the number of people in employment is constantly decreasing and in our closest export destination countries (Finland, Russia, etc.) there are no hopes for growth? ' You are right if you point out that the increase in exports is very seriously dependent on our main partners. Estonia's small open economy also depends very much on the success of the global economy, not only in terms of exports. It is also true that the real recovery of the global economy from the global financial crisis has gone harder than international organisations have predicted. The projections have therefore been constantly revised downwards. Among other factors, the development of foreign trade, which is very important for Estonia, as has already been said, has been disappointing. Over the long term, world trade grew faster than the GDP of the world economy, but since the last financial crisis, they have grown in the same order of magnitude, or even the growth of trade in the world as a whole is lagging behind. However, experts believe that the previous pattern will recover and world trade will grow again faster than GDP. For example, this autumn, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has forecast global growth to pick up from 3.1% this year to 3.6% next year, and world trade growth from 3.2% to 4.1%. It is considered likely that by 2020, growth in the global economy will reach 4%, which is the main reason why forecasters estimate that the Estonian economy will also have hope of improvement in the medium term. In addition to the state of the world economy, the Estonian economy has been affected in the past by structural problems in our immediate neighbours, which you have rightly referred to in your question. Thus, for example, the share of the Russian economy in our exports has fallen very strongly, which is why it will affect us much less in the future. However, according to the IMF forecast, Finland's economic growth is picking up by one of our most important partners. It does not pick up very much, but still from 0.4% this year to 0.9% next year. And if Russia is projected to have a decline of 3,8% this year, then next year it is considered likely that the pace of the decline will slow. But the truth is that there is a great deal of unpredictableness in relation to Russia and precise statistics are still available ex post rather than prudently. The projected 3.5% increase in Estonian exports is relatively modest in the light of past growth, but I agree that the recovery of export growth is one of the logical risks of this whole macro forecast and it must definitely be kept an eye on it. However, as in previous budgets, I very much hope that, neither this time nor in the future, politicians will argue with economic forecasts. We have a firm agreement just as it is stated in the State Budget Act that the government, when making the budget, is based on the Ministry of Finance's economic forecast. The Ministry of Finance, in turn, draws on a number of international forecasts and, of course, analyses the situation itself. It is very important that this good practice is maintained and the members of the government do not argue with these forecasters on the basis of their intuition or any other consideration, because otherwise it will be tempting to say that you know that we think the economy is going to grow by 2% more quickly and that is why we can spend a few hundred million more. Such an approach would be very, very questionable. That is why we must draw on a certain forecast and, according to the agreement, it is an economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance. So much for an explanation. The second question: what will the inflation rate of 2.0% planned for 2016 be based on if inflation has been in decline for a long time in 2015? You also point to the growth of the GDP deflector and ask how high inflation will turn out in the second half of 2016. This year's low inflation is largely driven by the low prices of oil and other raw materials. Almost half the cost of oil in Estonia has also led to a very significant fall in the price of motor fuels and other energy carriers. If you've been to a gas station as a customer, you've seen that at peaks, prices have dropped by almost a third, but certainly by a quarter. This has, of course, also affected the prices of the accompanying goods. If the price of oil does not fall further, and it is predicted that it will not fall much further, then this factor cannot keep inflation below. So this effect cancels out. Moderately, however, the fact that a certain amount of alcohol and tobacco is included in the average basket for the consumer price index also contributes to the overall excise duty. And, as you well know, the government's policy is to increase both excise duties on alcohol and tobacco, which is why tobacco and alcohol prices are rising. Alcohol and tobacco do not make up a very large part of the entire consumption basket, but it has a small impact on inflation as a whole. Domestic factors suggest that the price of services will increase faster. Apart from the fact that fuel depreciation will no longer have an impact, the transition to free higher education will no longer have an effect, which in its time also reduced prices. These things, even if prices do not rise significantly in these areas, will no longer have a negative impact on the price change, which is why this effect will go away. I hope I will explain this to you in a clear way, but if I have to, I will respond further. It is also considered likely that the depreciation of services affected by tourists will decrease in the coming years. According to the summer forecast, inflation in Estonian consumer prices will reach slightly higher than 2% in the second half of next year, which you are asking about. This is generally considered to be a good level. For example, the aim of the European Central Bank is precisely to keep inflation not close to zero, but rather close to 2%. Of course, inflation in Estonia is very closely linked to inflation in the euro area. It is therefore very important to also look at the European Central Bank's inflation forecast. And they see inflation in the euro area as a whole rising from 0.1% to 1.1% next year. After all, it makes sense that inflation in Estonia is in some way correlated with inflation in the euro area as a whole. In addition, the Ministry of Finance also takes into account Estonia's specific factors, some of which I have already described to you. The third question concerns the collection of social tax. You ask that if there is an increase in social tax revenues of EUR 115 million planned in 2016 and an increase in wages of 4%, which you call optimistic, and some 4 000 people leave employment, how is it possible that social tax receipts will increase by 4.8%. This is a very relevant question in itself. According to the macroeconomic forecast, the average wage growth will be 4.5% next year. However, the employees' wage fund as a whole is indeed growing at a slightly slower pace, precisely for the demographic reasons you have referred to. It is interesting to note, however, that historically the increase in social tax receipts has exceeded the growth of the payroll fund and this forecast requires that this very long-term logic be kept in place for the following year as well. One concrete example from which it might come, and from which it is very likely to come, is that the growth of some of the sub-components of social tax is faster than the growth of the payroll fund. For example, social tax in special cases is directly linked to the increase in the minimum wage and, as you know, the minimum wage will increase more than twice as fast as the average wage fund next year. So these seemingly small factors, but ultimately having an impact, explain this prima facie indicator of an anomaly. Question four. To begin with, you claim that the budget and its background documents contain contradictions as regards the increase in tax revenues in 2016. You refer to two places, one of which mentions an increase of 7.62% in taxes and social security contributions and the other, 5% in slides. You're asking what the difference is and which number is the right one. My answer is that there is no substantive contradiction between the data you have referred to. The question is what growth has been taken into account. The table in Annex 1 to the explanatory memorandum is based on the 2015 state budget, as it was adopted in the State Budget Act, and this results in an increase of 7.62%. However, if the reference base is taken as the forecast for 2015 revenue from taxes and payments made at the time the 2016 state budget was drawn up, the increase will be 5%. Basically, if we try to explain this more simply, the difference is that when we first drew up the state budget, we assumed that the total amount of the state budget was one sum, but now, by making the 2016 budget, we already know that the actual receipts are higher. Different data have been compared at different locations. Both reference bases should be included in the explanatory memorandum to the State Budget Act in order to give a better idea of what these figures are calculated as a percentage. Thank you. If there are any questions, of course I will respond further.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U63	There are questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. These were somewhat better than the answers we received when we read the state budget. But there are more questions. In particular, we have looked at data from Statistics Estonia on the volume of industrial production from April to September 2015. This volume is decreasing. We can see that the reduction is 3.1%, and in September it is 4.1%. The percentages are even higher if we look at the production data for export. So what's going to change here? In view of all the background you have spoken about in other countries, at least Russia and Finland are not doing so well, the question arises of how more can be exported to countries with declining economies.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U65	Thank you. You will bring out Russia as a very important foreign trade partner in your question. Russia has historically been a rather important partner, but a much larger partner is for us, for example, Sweden, which has been number one of the export destination countries for several years, and, if you add up, it is in the first or second place, in a close struggle with Finland. So Sweden's growth prospects depend very much, as well as how Finland and, of course, the euro area as a whole are doing. Russia's share of Estonia's foreign trade has indeed decreased. This negative impact, which the economic downturn in Russia has caused and the sanctions imposed by Russia have already resulted, is not expected to recur to the same extent. Hence the reason why Russia's influence is not judged so drastic. In itself, you are right if you are concerned about the decline in industrial production and exports. I, too, am concerned about this because we know that sustainable growth can only come from exports and that we are exporting products with ever higher added value. The growth of retail trade may be a source of joy and its merchants will be delighted, but if you look at the overall picture again, the growth in consumption cannot be the only one that is lucky in the long view of economic growth. So it is certainly very, very important for us to recover or turn to growth in export production. To remind you of the summer debates that we held in this Chamber and which, at times, got very hot when it was said that the Estonian tourism sector was experiencing a complete crisis and that, in view of the sector-by-sector statistics, see that the number of tourists has increased for several months in a row. Growth has not been very rapid, but this figure has increased compared to the same months last year. This shows that the sector is actually doing much better than we thought at the beginning of the summer. So I think that's really good news again.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U66	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U67	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister, how do you comment on this subject in the light of the European Commission's autumn forecast? I think it was a little more pessimistic than before, predicting a decline in the rate of growth in almost all countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U68	Thank you. Once again, the government has been based so far, and I believe that it must also be based on what our forecast for the Ministry of Finance is at a certain point in time. In retrospect, we can say that the Ministry of Finance has been fairly conservative in terms of budget receipts, at least for the last few years, compared to the actual result. This is good news in itself and, from a public finance point of view, you need to be a little more careful. However, we must monitor all developments; developments around us affect the Estonian economy very much. I myself am very fond of the Finnish economy turning to growth. Finland is a very important country for us in many ways, not just in terms of economic cooperation, and turning to the growth of the Finnish economy will certainly have a positive effect on Estonia as well. But now another matter of thought to make matters even more difficult, just as macro-economics often do. If you look at the same numbers that you are currently producing here by sector, there were examples during the crisis where the economy or, for example, the purchasing power of a country decreased due to the currency exchange rate and this increased Estonia's exports to that country. For example, this was the situation. There is a great deal of outsourcing in Estonian exports to Sweden. The Swedish kroon was then cheapened against the Estonian kroon linked to the euro. Logic suggests that if Sweden's purchasing power declines significantly, less goods will be bought from Estonia. However, as the fall in the Swedish kroon's exchange rate increased the competitiveness of Swedish exports and Estonia outsourced the Swedish exporting sector to a very large extent, it actually increased the turnover of the Estonian industry. The second such thing, which at first glance is not logical, but in which there is actually a perfectly clear point, is that during the economic downturn several Finnish companies have approached Estonian companies in the hope that the Estonian company will be able to offer the same service or the same quality at a more favourable price. It cannot be excluded that the economy of the country will fall, but this country will buy much more goods from Estonia than before. That is, in principle, not impossible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U69	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! When we discussed the state budget here, there was a lot of talk about whether the budget was in surplus or in deficit. The Minister of Finance confirmed that the budget is in nominal deficit, but in structural surplus. So the point is what the moment is estimated for the best moment of our economic potential, so whether we have a rise ahead of us, or whether we are already at the top of it, and we are starting to fall. Neither our own fiscal council nor the IMF agree with the assessment made by the Ministry of Finance. If you listen to their opinion, our budget is actually not in structural surplus or in balance, but in deficit. I wonder if you would rather share the opinion of the Fiscal Council and the IMF or the opinion of the Minister of Finance. Where is the so-called potential of the Estonian economy now?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U70	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U71	Thank you. The Board, which is an independent expert board established in Estonia, still gave a positive assessment of the budget. The European Commission has said that the structural surplus is slightly smaller than Estonia itself estimates. There is a clear difference between methodologies and different experts see things somewhat differently. But this is also one of the reasons why we have planned the structural surplus of the budget to be somewhat larger than what was required - it is 0.6% of gross domestic product. On the other hand, we have already been criticised for why we are planning a plus at all, why we are not taking a loan or spending, and why the budget is not going to lead to a deficit. Such proposals have also come from opposition ambassadors. I appreciate that if, in nominal terms, the budget is in a very tiny minus, which is justified by one-off factors, and structurally, the budget is still in surplus minus, which we have in nominal terms, there are 26 million, then basically, if Parliament wants to make a great deal of effort, it is also possible to balance the budget. However, I do not regard this minus of approximately 0.13% as so fundamental that I would recommend to Parliament that it be brought to 0,0 at any cost. This is because in practice we have seen in the last few years how we have forecasted the budget to be about a half-percent nominal minus, but the actual result has been more than a half-percent nominal plus. We have traditionally been more cautious in making our predictions. By "we," I mean the authors of the Ministry of Finance's economic forecasts. It also gives me the confidence to say that a single EUR 26 million minus is nothing that should cause the members of the Riigikogu great concern. I think that this budget has been made responsibly and fully in line with the current state of the Estonian economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U72	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Educated people and cutting-edge science have been one of the foundations of Estonian success stories and at all the foundations of the rise of Estonia as a small country. But when I look at the budget for next year, sadness and horror are all over me. As the budget generally grows, education and research budgets fall by 2.9%. This has already created quite a lot of additional stress in society, and for perfectly understandable reasons. Why has science not even tried to comply with the limit adopted by the Riigikogu, which is 1% of GDP, when preparing the budget for next year? Secondly, why have such choices been made in terms of education and science at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U74	Thank you. I seem to recall that I have already answered you on this subject. It is possible that this was another format, such as Riigikogu Question Time. But I don't mind at all explaining it again. Indeed, if we look at the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research, the reduction is linked to euro projects. I have also explained this, because we are currently in a kind of transition phase, where projects for the previous seven-year period are coming to an end and in some areas have already ended, and not all new projects have yet been fully started, so some other budgets can see a temporary reduction. If we withdraw euro projects from the budget and compare public tax expenditure on education and research, they will certainly increase as a whole, and will increase significantly. There will certainly be an increase in teachers' pay and a number of other significant allocations. But I have to share your concern about science. It is true that with science we have not yet reached the target of 1% of GDP in public spending. This must continue to be pursued and must be achieved in the coming years, and I agree with that too. In the case of teachers' salaries, we have set a target that it must reach 120% of the national average wage. It is quite ambitious, I would even say that it is a very ambitious objective, but we have assessed with our coalition partners that this is feasible in four years. Of course, we also need the support of the opposition to find additional resources in the education and science budget, and we must work together to achieve this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U75	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U76	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! I would like to comment that tourism still benefits large cities. Value added tax and other benefits don't make it to the country. So I'd be a little careful about generalising Estonia. However, I would like to ask what the government's actions and measures are to ensure that the forecast for exports is fulfilled.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U77	Thank you. You are factually right that the largest number of tourists visit Tallinn and Harjumaa. However, it is not insignificant that there are also quite a number of regions in other parts of Estonia where the number of tourists has increased since last year. Of course, our interest is that, for example, the following infrastructure projects would also contribute to the increase in the number of tourists. I am absolutely sure that when Rail Baltic is finished, the number of Latvian tourists will increase significantly in Pärnu. It's perfectly consistent with logic. I would be very surprised if the number of tourists there did not increase significantly. Well, we're gonna have to work on that. Therefore, the common interest of all of us is that the start-up airline is doing well. The number of tourists visiting Estonia depends quite seriously on this. What is the government going to do? The government has decided to lower the tax burden on labour. The government has decided on various measures to improve the livelihood of people with lower incomes, including, for example, raising the limit of living to almost one-and-a-half. This money enables people to acquire more life-saving goods, which in turn stimulates retail sales. This in turn, at least part of it, will also help to stimulate other sectors of the economy. These steps, which are listed, are quite a few, but the most important thing that the government can do to ensure the Estonian economy is to maintain and develop the most favourable economic environment possible. I see the Minister of Public Administration has arrived in the hall. Also, if Estonian municipalities provide a good service, for example, if the municipality is a good partner for entrepreneurs, if we finally implement the administrative reform, there is potentially a very significant impact on economic growth. So the things we do are quite a few. I intend to start mapping in the near future with the help of Estonia's best experts, what else can be done to contribute to economic growth. And to do so, we want to include not only the wisdom of our government partners but also the knowledge of the outside.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U78	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U79	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! The fiscal council set up at Eesti Pank has proposed to balance the budget nominally. They have stressed this repeatedly, and I think they have a reason for it. If we look at the surrounding economic environment and the next year's state budget, this EUR 26 million, which is entered in the budget, is not the only minus. For example, I cannot imagine that next year the excise duty on diesel will be increased by EUR 54 million. A comparison with Latvia alone shows that 1000 litres of fuel can be refueled there at 100 euros cheaper than in Estonia. On what basis has such an estimate been made? It doesn't seem realistic. According to Eurostat, the volume of our industrial production decreased by 5.9%, clearly on the downside in the European Union. For example, in Lithuania the volume of industrial production increased by 5.9% and in Latvia by 8.3%. What is your optimism about?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U80	Thank you. That is, of course, an interesting point of view. You are now recommending the starting point of the Fiscal Council, which is a little more conservative than the government's. At the same time, the Centre Party has taken the stance in the discussions so far that Estonia should borrow and bring the budget to a greater deficit. There is a certain contradiction here with your earlier views. I rather agree with the view that a conservative line must be maintained. It is a matter of whether we have to follow this with the euro's precision or whether we realise that structurally there will be a budget surplus for next year. If we look at the figures for this and last year's figures, then ultimately the budget was more than half a percent, or more than EUR 100 million nominally positive. We also take this wisdom into account when making our decisions. As for your information on the difference between the price of fuel sold in Latvia and Estonia, this is simply not true. You've used these inaccurate figures before, but in fact, the price difference has been very low this year. There are also examples where fuel prices at some Estonian stations have been cheaper than in Latvia. I would like to point out that in Tallinn alone, the price of fuel at filling stations has varied by 7 to 8 cents on the same day, which is a very high percentage of the final price now that fuel prices have fallen very low. During the summer, you said that Latvia will certainly not increase excise duties on fuel, but the political position of the Latvian Government is now known that they will also increase excise duties. So we can be sure in the future that the difference in fuel prices with our neighbours is not very significant.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U81	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U82	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! My question concerns exports. With regard to forecasts and calculations on exports, we talked about Russia, Finland and Sweden. I ask what are the new markets where Estonian exports could go, where more could be exported or where they have already been headed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U83	Thank you. That's a very interesting question. It is certainly in the interests of the Estonian economy if we have more than a few markets. Then we will also be less vulnerable to the various shocks of the global economy or to the shocks of specific regions. At the moment it can be said that a very large part, I would even say that the lion's share of our exports is directed towards the European Union. In this, we have a common currency area with the vast majority of the European Union and, more importantly, we have a common economic space. So it makes perfect sense that a large part of our economy is connected to the European Union. If the free trade agreement between the United States of America and the European Union should materialise, then Estonian entrepreneurs will also have the opportunity to sell goods to America much easier. Free trade agreements are also being concluded with Asian countries, and I can see that Estonian entrepreneurs actually have an interest in quite remote regions. However, as Prime Minister, I certainly cannot say that Estonian entrepreneurs, you must go to one region or another to sell your goods. It's a company decision. I can contribute to a certain extent, and I've done a lot of that. About a month ago, in Dubai and Oman, I helped Estonian IT companies to succeed in their markets. There's a very, very serious interest in them, and they already have a pretty good turnover. One particular company, for example, has a turnover of as much as 10 million in Oman, which is a very large amount in terms of the turnover of the service. I think it's up to every member of the government to visit, if possible, business delegations and help open the doors. There are some countries where such a political door opening is, in the best sense, very necessary, and then it is up to us to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U84	Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U85	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Prime Minister! A few remarks. First of all, what applies not to today's answers, but to the comments of some of the coalition's representatives when the Free Party started raising these questions. In fact, we were criticised for this in a way that politicians must never challenge expert opinions, and it is almost inappropriate to question their optimism. I think it is up to politicians, including members of the Riigikogu, first and foremost, to understand the budget and also to understand the revenue of the budget. I would point out that the above-mentioned Fiscal Council has expressed its doubts about meeting the revenue side, particularly as regards VAT and corporate tax receipts last year. At all, our starting point is not a call for more spending, although there are certainly many opportunities and needs for this, but rather a concern about how the ends come together so that our public budget is sustainable. Now, separately from all the questions. First of all, the issue of exports. The Prime Minister also admitted, indeed, that this is a concern, particularly with regard to the growth of industrial production or the lack of real growth. As a side comment, this multiple turned out to be not our fiction for Russia, but Russia was referred to in several places in the explanatory memorandum to the state budget, although, frankly, it would probably have been more relevant for Germany or the European Union than to put the matter in such a positive forecast context. However, we are still concerned about how this growth will take place. The second question concerned inflation. You said it could rise slightly above 2% in the second half of next year. It is indeed a good thing that you did not say that it would rise to 4% in this we would have seriously doubted. For us, however, there is the question of how this average 2% will come together, because at the beginning of next year we will not see such a special boost here. With regard to the third question, the collection of social tax, it remains to be hoped that you are right. But the figures we have at our disposal, again, do not give rise to such optimism. Our last question concerned various figures in the state budget explanatory memorandum and various background documents, and we probably expected some of this answer. Here, a bit of incomparable data has been compared, firstly, with this year's budget law, and secondly, with what has actually come together. Obviously, however, we have reason to overcalculate here, because the difference of 2.62% when we talk about tax receipts that amount to billions in national budgets is still quite large. Whether these ends come together, I can't tell you right now. There is, however, another big general question that might be right to end. This is precisely a question of the legibility of the state budget, of the comprehension of the state budget. We also faced it honestly by proposing amendments to the draft budget. In the end, we found the right places. However, I have such a case for the Prime Minister that we believe that the citizens of the Republic of Estonia have the right to understand a document such as the state budget. Just as it has now been presented and, as it seems, there is a further trend, which we see especially with regard to the budget of the Ministry of Education, this certainly does not make sense to people. This reduces the comprehension and credibility of the policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U86	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. Would the Prime Minister like to speak? No, I don't. We have passed the second item.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U87	We will proceed to the third item: the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Erki Savisaare, Tarmo Tamme, Andrei Novikov, Kersti Sarapuu, Valeri Korbi, Viktor Vassilyev, Lauri Laas, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Enn Eesmaa, Aadu Musta and Rein Ratas concerning the situation and development of Ida-Viru County. The question is answered by Arto Aas, Minister of Public Administration. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U88	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, It would be too boring to read the text on this page, I'd rather speak in my own words. In 1998, I met voters in the city of Sillamäe. All the stories were spoken, the meeting ended. Then a man came to me, picked up the button, and made a very sincere request that he not throw a neutron bomb on Sillamäe and put an end to the horror that has been going on in the city for seven or eight years. By then, Sillamäe was in a really terrible situation. The Soviet metal combinations didn't work, there was no port, there was just no job in the city, there was crime, smuggling, HIV, AIDS. The local government had huge problems. And then a guy came in and started building up a business, started creating jobs. You all know this man's name, Tiit Vähi. The city gradually changed in two or three years. What he is now is the result of the long-term work of a good team. This means that if someone is determined to improve people's lives, give them a job, a chance to serve, a chance to live safely, it works if there is enough talent, if there is enough energy and a desire to do all this. Thus, in Ida-Virumaa, the question arises as to how men like Tiit Vähi I could name a few more people, but they are all skinny and may be misunderstood as being able to do so. Why are these national programmes, which, according to my memory, have been asked four or five times about their proposals, their development programme, all these action plans for five years, etc., not working? When then the next five years have passed and we will see what has been done and what has not been done, very little has actually been done. In fact, these are processes that in the early 1990s had a huge impact on the entire region, still as in life. If you live at the border, if there's no law, if there's no border guard, where's the smuggling, crime, all these diseases, drugs? Where's all this? Do you remember which country exported the most colored metals in the 1990s for several years? It was Estonia. Huge smuggling. It couldn't have had any effect. The result was still unemployment, which in some years in Narva exceeded 20%, even 23%, crime, etc. Yeah, we're over it. I am specifically monitoring my city, but Ida-Viru County as a whole is firmly in the middle of 15 counties, both in terms of average wages and unemployment. But the situation could be much better if the state had also taken effective action. Ministers come and go, their ministries have one name, one name. We're already confused. New and new action plans are being written all the time. In fact, there is little change in cooperation with the country when it comes to planned activities. On this subject, we have three questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U89	Thank you. Please, Minister of State Administration Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U90	Honourable Riigikogu! Good questioners! I will then read the question first and then I will answer it. The first question: 'Do you think that the previous 2010-2014 Action Plan sufficiently improved the situation in Ida-Viru County? Was the development the way it was planned? ' We believe that the previous Ida-Viru County Action Plan has supported the economic and social development of the county in various ways. The preparation of the first Ida-Virumaa Action Plan was an important step by the government, which gave a comprehensive view of what the state is planning in various areas in Ida-Virumaa and thereby helped to raise Ida-Virumaa's focus. In conclusion, monitoring the implementation of this action plan has shown that the government has taken a number of important steps in various areas to respond to the specific challenges of development in Ida-Viru County. In the field of regional development, the Ministry of the Interior has implemented regional development programmes and measures financed by the European Union's structural resources and the state budget, which have supported projects for the development of entrepreneurship and the living environment in the Ida-Virumaa region. For example, eight industrial infrastructure projects (total grant of EUR 9.7 million) have been supported during the 2007-2013 period under a measure to strengthen the competitiveness of regions, resulting in nearly 400 new jobs in Ida-Viru County by the end of October 2014. Support has been given to the development of site visits, such as the Kiviõli adventure tourism centre, Kohtla mining park, oil shale competence centre in Kohtla-Järvel, as well as the development of public urban space in Narva, Narva-Jõesuu, Jõhvi and Kohtla-Järve. Both the local public service infrastructure in Ida-Virumaa and the investments in the development of public space and living environment in the county's urban areas have been supported by more than EUR 15 million as of last year. Through the Estonian-Latvian-Russian cross-border cooperation programme, 11 million euros were contributed to the Ida-Viru County Action Plan during the 2010-2014 period. Local initiative projects have been supported with around EUR 100000 per year. In addition to the Minister responsible for regional development, other ministries have made a significant contribution to the implementation of the Action Plan. For example, the Ministry of Education and Research has contributed to various activities in the fields of education, language learning and civic education in Ida-Virumaa. Between 2012 and 2013, these activities amounted to EUR 18.5 million in cash. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has directed an entrepreneurial school programme in Ida-Virumaa and has supported the development of energy and transport infrastructure in the region's industrial areas. For example, through Ida-Virumaa Industrial Areas Development, 206 new jobs had been created by the beginning of 2015. The Ministry of Rural Affairs has supported the development of rural and entrepreneurship in Ida-Virumaa over the 2008-2014 period with nearly 30 million euros. The EFF has targeted Ida-Virumaa at around 5.5 million euros. In the field of internal security of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, additional regional fees have been allocated to police officers working at the eastern border, scholarships and state budget places have been established at the National Defence Academy for students and police officers from Ida-Virumaa, voluntary rescue commanders from the assisted area, new joint police and rescue facilities have been established in county centres and simplified border crossings in Narva with the reconstruction of the border crossing and pedestrian bridge. The detailed planning of the internal security buildings of Sillamäe and Kiviõli was also confirmed in 2014 and the activities of the voluntary rescue commandos and relief police officers of the region have been promoted. The Ministry of Social Affairs has provided treatment and rehabilitation services for people with addiction disorders, developed health infrastructure and implemented active labour market measures. The Ministry of Justice carried out the entire prison division of Jõhvi in 2013, paying an additional coefficient of 35% for remuneration, and a Viru prison has been established. The Ministry of the Environment has supported environmental and water management infrastructure and the elimination of residual pollution in the county. The Ministry of Culture has supported cultural and sports infrastructure and integration activities. Of the cultural and sporting events that took place in Ida-Virumaa, almost 300 events were held on the calendar of the Year of Movement, the largest of which was the Narva energy run. A more detailed overview of the previous Ida-Virumaa Action Plan will be presented by the Minister of the Interior at the meeting of the Cabinet in February of this year, which is certainly to be found. We can see that, with the support of the previous national action plan, there have been a number of positive shifts in the economic development of Ida-Virumaa in recent years. For example, between 2010 and 2014, the increase in earnings earned by wage earners has been one of the fastest in the counties of Ida-Virumaa, an increase of 11%, an increase in the productivity of companies above the national average and an increase in the number of exporting companies close to the national average. The region's gross domestic product has also increased, although it should be noted that it increased more slowly than the national average until 2013. New investments have been made in a number of industries and retail trades, and the development of tourism and services has accelerated. The development of Port of Sillamäe and logistics parks has significantly increased the turnover of the transit and logistics sectors. Thanks to the activities of several cultural and educational institutions and the construction of new modern buildings, Ida-Virumaa's reputation as a cultural and educational environment has improved. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that, despite the progress made by the economic side, the social environment and attractiveness of the county have not improved as much as they might wish so far. Ida-Viru County has lost 17% of the population in the period between the last two censuses, and this decline has been particularly rapid in cities. According to Statistics Estonia's forecast, the population of the county will decrease faster by 2040 than in the country as a whole, with an estimated 27%. The share of children and young people under 14 in the population will decrease to 10%. As a result, the labour pressure index is also the most unfavourable in Estonia, which means that more people will leave the labour market due to age over the next ten years than they will enter. As a result of the general economic situation, the employment situation in Ida-Virumaa has clearly improved over the years 2010-2014, and this has been more effective than in Estonia as a whole. At the same time, it has to be admitted that the employment rate of 62% remains one of the lowest and that the unemployment rate of 14% is one of the highest among counties. So there has been a rapid development, in the right direction, but there is certainly more to be expected. Question 2: "What measures are being taken to influence the situation in Ida-Viru County in the 2015-2020 Action Plan? Are the measures compatible with those of the previous action plan? ' The answer is that the new action plan seeks to influence the development of Ida-Viru County in a number of areas. The most important of these is perhaps to make better use of growth and the potential of the labour market to help create a modern living and business environment that attracts more people, tourists and investments in the region. For example, programmes aimed at young people's entrepreneurship will be supported and the development of a vocational training, refresher and retraining system that takes into account the needs of the county will continue. Narva College, University of Tartu, intends to offer innovative solutions, including the launch of a competence centre for border cooperation between the European Union and Russia and an incubation laboratory for social entrepreneurship. Investment will continue in industrial and logistics parks and business incubators, which have already created a large number of jobs. Supporting the development of tourist and visitor sites. The deployment of the region's energy resources in business will be encouraged. Regional fees will continue to be paid to Ida-Virumaa employees of the internal security authorities and additional opportunities will be sought to transfer important public authorities, agencies and entities to Ida-Virumaa. Another important area of work is to promote a diverse and active lifestyle environment by developing leisure services so that Ida-Virumaa is an attractive place to live and work as well as for tourists. A specific support action will be provided for the social, economic and physical regeneration and development of transport and mobility opportunities in the major urban areas of Ida-Viru County from the European Union Structural Funds. EUR 29 million will be allocated to this action. It also provides for support for other individual projects improving public space and the living environment in the county. The IT-learning branch will be opened at Narva College, University of Tartu. Support will be granted for the development of the regional cultural and leisure infrastructure. The programme for the development of local service centres, which has so far been used only in South-East Estonia, is also extended to Ida-Virumaa. Actions will be prepared to improve groundwater status and reduce the externalities of the oil shale sector. The third area of action is to strengthen civil society and make the social environment safer. I mention specific activities. Special Border Guard Unit will be set up for the Eastern Prefecture and training courses will be organised for students from ordinary schools in the specialties of the National Defence Academy. Provision is made for the modernisation of health infrastructure, which concerns both the central hospital and the general medical centres. A pilot project is being carried out in the county for family security-oriented parenthood programme, a regional child protection unit is being set up and family houses for the Narva replacement home are being established. The organisation of civil society forums and other events, as well as seminars and trainings related to education in Estonian, will be supported. The fourth area is connections and coherence with Estonia. The activities of the Narva Estonian House in the fields of integration and cultural diversity are supported, local folklore culture is promoted and contacts with other Estonian regions are developed more actively. The education of Estonian language in the educational institutions and local governments of the region and the exchange of pupils from Ida-Viru schools with schools in other areas of Estonia will be supported. An extra fee is provided for teachers at the Narva Estonian Gymnasium and Sillamäe Elementary School. Narva College is involved in the development of a methodology centre for Russian school teachers. In addition, the development of water traffic and small ports in the region will be supported. The above was such a narrower choice from the entire implementation plan to the development of Ida-Virumaa. The actual effectiveness of the new Action Plan will be more clearly demonstrated by further monitoring, which will actively involve all parties involved in the implementation of the Action Plan. The first overview of the implementation of this action plan will be presented to the government at the beginning of next year. The third question: 'What is being done differently in the action plan for this period in order to alleviate the problems of Ida-Viru County more effectively than in the previous period? ' The new action plan provides for a series of new activities, but at the same time seeks to continue those activities that have been considered positive. Greater attention will be paid to boosting employment and economic development in the region than in the past. Of the European Union's structural resources coordinated by the Ministry of Regional Development alone, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, 53 million euros will be allocated to Ida-Viru County during this period. This includes EUR 23 million for the development of entrepreneurship and industrial infrastructure and the visiting environment, and for improving intra-regional mobility, including EUR 8 million in so-called bonus or bonus money, compared to other counties. It's meant purely for Ida-Virumaa. So in Ida-Virumaa, the European Union's structural resources are a clear priority during this budget period. The new action plan also focuses more on activities to improve the living environment and image of Ida-Virumaa. Among other things, EUR 29 million will be earmarked for the development of under-utilised urban areas and sustainable transport and mobility opportunities in the major urban areas of Ida-Viru County. That's a lot of money. Unlike the previous plan, measurable monitoring indicators have been added to the objectives of the new action plan together with a benchmark to better assess the impact and effectiveness of the implementation of the action plan. It can also be said that alongside the central government level, the new Ida-Virumaa Action Plan also has a broad consensus in the form of regional institutions and stakeholders. In addition to the representatives of ministries and other state agencies, the officials and consultants who prepared the action plan also involved the leaders of the municipalities and companies of Ida-Virumaa and the civil society activists in this process, receiving valuable feedback and input into the action plan. Finally, of course, success depends on how all parties contribute and cooperate. Here we need to look at the opportunities that the state and local authorities have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U91	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U92	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You are not the first minister to tell me how much money has been directed to Ida-Virumaa. There are serious figures. But you yourself said that the forecast is 27% by 2040, almost one third of the population will leave Ida-Virumaa and the population will decrease. In this regard, I would like to ask you how you comment on why this is happening. Are we interested in people leaving? Perhaps we would look at this problem differently instead of linking it to refugees' income in Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U93	Thank you. Apparently, there are several reasons. One of the biggest is probably the history and economic structure of the region. When large industrial companies have disappeared or significantly reduced their workforce, many people probably have not had enough use and have moved elsewhere. So that's the main reason. I do think the forecast from Statistics is too pessimistic. I would like to hope that such major falls and movements have already been taken away. And if you look at the developments of recent years in Ida-Virumaa, it has been visibly positive. In my opinion, of course, it is still work and entrepreneurship that keeps people on the ground. There are a lot of good examples. They are in the field of logistics and use of mineral resources. Or we could take the Narva Industrial Park, which I recently visited. There are impressive companies there, but there is room for much more. In this sense, I think that the fact that the best social policy is a functioning economy is also true in the case of Ida-Viru County.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U94	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The biggest employer of Ida-Viru is Eesti Energia, and he is probably a powerful influence on its environment. However, if you look at the state's policy as a whole, it is rather the case that Eesti Energia has become a public budget collector through dividends. But what is suffering is a regional political aspect. As a result, I ask how you can see the future there. Will the miners' jobs be preserved? Is there a plan to do something about the residual heat of power plants so that it does not pollute water bodies but is used in a reasonable way? Is its use in fish farming or in any other way on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U96	As far as residual heat is concerned, the prepared background materials indicated that it should be used. It's probably something they're working on, but I don't know anything more about aquaculture. Questions concerning Eesti Energia would probably be more appropriate to address the Minister of Economic Affairs. Its future is also greatly influenced by what is happening in the field of the environment, as well as the agreements that will be concluded at European level, if not at global level. Currently, Eesti Energia is just a very important company, but it is active in the free market. So the possibilities for state intervention here are somewhat limited, as we can see in other cases. I believe that the future of Eesti Energia is still positive, it is a very capable company. Perhaps in the future oil shale will be used less for electricity production and more for oil and other products with higher added value. But here, again, very much depends on world market prices. This is an area that we cannot influence in any way in Estonia. If the price were higher, consumers would like it less, and Eesti Energia would like it more. In this sense, the world is complicated. I believe that the more complicated times of Eesti Energia have passed, the opening of the market has survived, investments are made, and oil plants will probably be put to work as they should. If fuel prices on the world market start to rise again at one point, they will not know, but if they do, the future of Eesti Energia will be brighter. But specific questions about Eesti Energia would probably be better submitted to the Minister of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U97	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U98	Good manager! Good minister! You said that important public institutions were to be brought to Ida-Virumaa, but you admitted that the population would fall rapidly. Is it meant to bring refugees there? Young and startling men, they could be of some use.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U99	Thank you. The reception and placement of refugees in Estonia is not my area of administration. I don't want to comment on the preparation and work of other ministries here, so I'm sure they can give themselves better answers. But why not? I myself believe that, in the case of refugees, leaving humane aspects aside, knowledge and economic potential are very important. Ida-Virumaa could find a niche here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U100	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U101	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! There is quite a lot of evidence that the resource and, above all, the focus will be on the northern part of Ida-Viru County. What about the southern part, the rural part? What are the specific measures and actions of the government to preserve this region so that people there can have optimism and hope for the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U102	Thank you. We have a lot of regional programs. There are certainly also projects for the southern parts of Ida-Viru County. As I have already said, the European Union's money from the Structural Funds for this period is a vivid example. There is now a preparatory phase and next year maybe the first actions and disbursements can begin. It's tens of millions. In the BEMP, the plan for strengthening the competitiveness of the regions will amount to €135 million. There are also other programs. These are the plans that the counties are putting together themselves. Municipalities and entrepreneurs submit projects, the county government coordinates this work and then sends projects to the Ministry of Finance and the EAS. There are a wide variety of projects, the financing of which will be decided at the beginning of next year. In fact, people on the ground themselves set priorities that are made in larger cities, which are in rural areas. There's quite a lot of these investments, so there's plenty everywhere. Among other things, we will continue to build ports along Peipsi and so on. There is now a transition phase in which the money from the old period ends and is being prepared for the new period. Three counties have already submitted plans for the competitiveness of their regions, including Ida-Virumaa. It was also the request of the Minister for Economic Affairs that we move forward with the Ida-Virumaa programme as soon as possible so that investments could open up and we could get money for, for example, industrial parks or other projects where jobs are waiting.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U103	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In answer to Mr Korb's question, you said that work and entrepreneurship are what you think is keeping people on the ground. I agree with you on this issue. I want to ask what government plans are in this area besides supporting industrial parks and business incubators. Have we discussed any, say, radical measures, such as tax distinctions or something like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U105	Thank you. The government strongly prefers direct investment to tax incentives and its contribution to infrastructure and the creation of the environment, not tax incentives. In both a small country and Estonia, where there is a very high risk of tax fraud, aid granted with such incentives is often not targeted. This choice is firmly in place. If you are interested, I can mention some of the projects submitted in this area, where the government can consider whether European Union funds are suitable for these investments: Aidu water sports and leisure centre, Kreenholm region development, Narva river canyon landscape protection area remediation, Kohtla-Järve industrial park infrastructure, Narva fortress development, promenade and light traffic roads in Jõhvi city centre, re-launch of the under-utilised area of Kohtla-Järve district, Narva cycling network, reconstruction of the Narva town hall building and site. If we see that there are more than 50 million in total in the region, then the environment and infrastructure there will make a very important contribution. In my opinion, however, there is a structural problem in Ida-Virumaa. I don't know exactly, but I can imagine that the reasons for this are historic again. Indeed, entrepreneurial activity is very low. This is the problem of attitude and perhaps role models. Compared to other Estonian regions, there is a lack of entrepreneurialism. I think it is something that cannot be changed overnight by national regulations or tax incentives; it is rather a question of thinking. But the potential is insane. After all, this region has fantastic potential, both in its geographical location, in its nature and in its resources, and in the people who live there. There is a very strong scientific competence, etc. Ida-Virumaa is certainly an area with very high potential.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U106	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I very much agree with you that Ida-Virumaa is an area with fantastic potential and that there are really great people there too. Does our government currently have any concrete plans to increase its own visibility and presence there in Ida-Viru County, in addition to this general agenda? Is it known that, for example, some agencies or certain positions are scheduled to be transferred there? I am just asking how the country shows its presence in Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U108	Thank you. We'll have a state government audit by May next year. One part of this is the proposals in the fields of whether it is possible to move any institutions, functions or employees from Tallinn. In some places, this has already been done, for example in the field of the Ministry of Justice. At the Ministry of Finance, in my own field, we take jobs to Tartu and Viljandi. So something is going to be done, but more concrete answers will be in spring next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U109	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U110	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I have a question about the southern part of Ida-Viru County, where there are some areas of Natura, nature conservation and environmental protection that are under economic pressure. Does the new development plan also provide for a review of such matters? How will this issue be addressed in the new development plan, or has it even been addressed there?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U111	Thank you. It's not from that perspective. These issues should be discussed with the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U112	Thank you, Minister. No more questions for you. Let's go to the negotiations. Colleagues Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U113	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to clarify some of the facts that sounded in the Minister's speech. It was all made up of pros, put together a pile where the flag will then be inserted and said to look at what achievements. How has it really been? Yes, there is an industrial park near Narva and there are four other municipalities of Ida-Viru, the industrial areas of Ida-Viru. But how did it start? So about 2004 we suddenly discovered that we lack industrial areas in Narva, we have no land where investors who want to enter the city could start their own businesses. We turned to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. It was the government's prepared decision that the council adopted. We got a negative. The question was wasteland, which was behind the overpass when you went to Tallinn. They didn't give us that. Two years later, the situation was even sadder. There were even more entrepreneurs who would have liked to come to Narva, but again the land that was offered to them was too expensive and the cheap land simply did not go on. We turned again. A group of politicians were sent in to investigate whether or not to give the city of Narva this industrial land. You looked at the person who was a direct competitor in this industrial area, because he himself has this kind of industrial park thing. It said right away, no-no, no way to give them. After that, we managed again for two years with other measures, and then we went back to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. We met several times with the chancellor who worked there at the time and explained the situation to him. In order for the state not to be afraid that we will take this land, turn it up like a carpet, and take it somewhere else, we offered to do a joint project of five local governments. Only then, after seven years of begging, could we begin to use this land. In fact, we wrote projects and the things that have been done there are roads, networks, lighting, urban and European money. There wasn't much public money there. So it wasn't like someone came along, gave you a gift, and said, "Get up." We pulled that thing out with our teeth. Now, about the plumbing. In 2003, a project was completed, according to which we were ready to build a water treatment plant. Officials and politicians here in Tallinn were so opposed that it was just horrible. Helped Villu Reiljan. This man is probably the only minister of Estonian governments to whom a gold monument could have been placed in Narva. He solved the water treatment plant problem and gave us two years of waiting time in the garbage management. He simply understood the needs of local governments. He showed up and didn't read a speech on the paper, he tried to figure out what was really going on. You can say whatever you want, but Villu Reiljan is the best Estonian minister of all time for me. Then came the next phase of this project and then the next. And at a great moment, when we were preparing a euro project to replace all the networks, the KIK and the Ministry of the Environment told us: this is not the case, you have too soft a schedule, you have too low prices, raise prices on your schedule, then you will receive this support. We hired Glikman's office. We fought, I went... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U114	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U115	I myself went to KIK and the Ministry of the Environment where we argued. The people of Glikman helped us very seriously, and we pulled that European money out with our teeth again. Last week the last stage was the opening of the water treatment plant. It's like a spaceship, I say, cleaning water on five levels. This water can be poured into a bottle and sold like, I don't know, Värska water. So it wasn't like someone came in and gave it to me. Our investment projects. Four and a half years ago, I asked the Minister of Culture in this Chamber when, after all, the state would help and help to clean up the Narva bastions. Our architects said then, four and a half years ago, that there would be two or three more years, and then there would be just a mountain, there would be no walls. Lang and Aaviksoo grinned here alone to make your money and everything. A year went by and we got this euro money. But do you know why we got it? There were many requests, but Narva was one of the few municipalities who were not full of this percentage of debt, that 60%. When we brushed our teeth, they gave us this money, and now we're working, and the basions will soon be finished. It is fantastic, along with the shoreline, with the port, it will soon be one of the most beautiful places in Estonia. That's the way it was, not the way you came and gave it to me. When the Narva budget started with three in 2003, i.e. 300 million kroons with something, in 2004 it started with four in 2005, five in 2005, six in 2006, seven in 2007, eight in 2008 and the original budget for 2009 was over 900 million kroons. We, the local government, secured this development. The half of the things you spoke about, Mr Minister, are either common to the whole of Estonia, such as road repairs, where we do not differ in any way from others, or are those things that you did not have the possibility to give us, not specifically, but simply refuse by previous governments. So if you ask what can be done about this action plan, it has always been most important for me not to be disturbed. Do not interfere too much with the development of entrepreneurs and local authorities. Perhaps then this agenda will also be real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U116	There's no more calls. Would the Minister like to speak? No, I don't. We're done answering the third question. That's what all the enquiries today have been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U117	There's still a free microphone. Ladies and gentlemen, who wish to do so, will have the floor in a free microphone after a hammer hit. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U118	Honourable Vice President! Comrades, ladies and gentlemen! Gentlemen, colleagues! As a teacher, I'm not used to talking to an empty hall, but since there are real fighters here, let's talk. I have put forward a number of questions about how a career ladder for teachers could be established and, in relation to the budget, a number of questions about how the minimum wage for day-care providers should be set by the state, but these things have not been heard. There's been a petition with over 2,000 signatures, but it hasn't been discussed. An interesting justification was provided that the signatures and personal identification numbers of the petition must be presented separately in the form of an Excel table. I think it was just an excuse, pretty funny. Kindergarten teachers have submitted two petitions, one in the summer and the other four weeks ago. They have not been given any attention in the design of the budget; they have simply been ignored. Therefore, the Estonian Centre Party Group tabled a proposal for improvement, the content of which was that, since a large part of the local government's income base was taken away in a given year and has not been returned, the salaries of school teachers and kindergarten teachers should be made more stable in some way and the minimum wage should be fixed. This change would require EUR 15.3 million. The answer was, the source of the cover is a little bit off. The source of the cover was the sale of the fuel reserve, or something like that. They say it's too small money and you can't sell the reserve. The second source of cover was the closure of the State Examination Centre and the 'waste' of the money spent on it to set the minimum wage for kindergarten teachers. It wasn't taken into account either. It was said that, in principle, this is a mere hump, there are no normal sources of cover and no normal proposals for additional budget corrections. That's a lie. The proposed amendment does not, in principle, require a negative answer and must be implemented. The local government must recover the money that has been taken away from its income base so that it can guarantee the minimum wage for kindergarten teachers as well as decent pay for others. This is essential in order for the country to survive. This is essential in order for municipal education, basic education, to be of very high quality. This means that preparation for school must be very good. The Ministry of Education, however, responds arrogantly that it is none of their business, it is a matter of local government. I mean, our children are a matter of the state, and if we are a state, not a public limited company, we will review these improvements and accept to a minimum what we have asked for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U119	Thank you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U120	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I want this information to remain on the verbatim record of Riigikogu meetings, and I would also like to talk about schools. I think you agree with me, and in fact, everyone knows that school success, prosperity is demonstrated by the way in which students from one school or another pass the state exam. 2012/2013. In the academic year, the state mathematics exam was compulsory in the upper secondary school and the national average was 61 points out of 100. In the same year, the average state mathematics examination in the city of Narva was 58.3, i.e. almost 3% lower than the Estonian average. I would like to remind you that another 15 to 20 years ago, there were mathematics teams in those who traveled to the international Olympics between a quarter and a half of the Narva. We were very good mathematicians back in the day. And then it happened that this figure started to deteriorate, deteriorate, and deteriorate. Finishing 2012/2013. the school year. But then came the next academic year where there was already such a distribution that narrow mathematics and broad mathematics. And you see, the figures were this: the average of Estonia was 34.2 and the average of Narva was 44.3, 10 balls, or one third above the average of Estonia. That goes for narrow math. In broad mathematics, Estonia averaged 55.8 and Narva averaged 66.8 or 11 balls more than the Estonian average. That wasn't the end of it. In the previous academic year, on this one, which ended with the state examination, there were stories: in narrow mathematics, Estonia had an average of 38 balls, in Narva 57.7 or almost 20 more, half more; in broad mathematics, the Estonian average was 52; in Narva, 72.5, i.e. plus 20,5 points. I wonder how that's possible. We were down three years ago compared to the average, but already last year we had an average of 10 balls and 20 more this year. I'll explain. Two years ago, Narva made an exact science school on a proposal from me and two of my old friends and colleagues. It is a separate city institution, a school where more than 200 upper secondary schools study for the third year. It is about half of those who study in Narva upper secondary schools, and they study mathematics, physics and chemistry in their native language, Russian. If you wish to water our children, strengthen your Estonian-language teaching in mathematics, physics and chemistry. You can rest assured that then the average of Narva will fall well below the Estonian average. As long as we are in power in Narva, as long as it depends on us, we allow our children to study these subjects in Russian at the school of interest at night. And I just read to you the result. I think the logic is clear: anyone who disputes with these children, their parents and us who represent them stands for these children to get a worse education so that they are below all others on the competition scale. So think, all four members of the Riigikogu who are in this room but me! But actually, I didn't tell you this, but to those who hopefully are still watching this translation. Think about what is happening in our education system and who will benefit! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-09_U121	There are no further requests to speak. The free microphone is over and today's session is over. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and a good journey home. Closure of the sitting at 5.52 p.m.
