ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U1	Good morning, honourable colleagues, good Riigikogu! We will start the 2nd working week Thursday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Dmitri Dmitriyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U2	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to make to the Minister of the Interior regarding the situation and development of Ida-Virumaa. Ida-Virumaa is a crucial industrial area in the Estonian context, which requires a separate approach in many areas and, if necessary, assistance. Despite the fact that this is an industrial area, the unemployment rate in Ida-Viru County was almost twice as high as the average in Estonia in 2014, and the population has decreased by a third in 25 years. The economic downturn that began in 2008 hit Ida-Virumaa painfully, and many of the old problems that had not yet been resolved came back to life. Unemployment and poverty increased and the exodus from the county intensified, which led to a rather difficult situation. In the light of the previous events, in 2009 the government began preparations for the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan and a very ambitious action plan for 2010-2014 was completed within a few months. However, only three points remained of the ambitious agenda, two of which were quite general. The monitoring clearly showed that the implementation of the action plan was not among the government's priorities. In summary, however, the Action Plan launched some processes in Ida-Virumaa that have benefited the county. For the new period, from 2015 to 20.20, the government has planned a new action plan for the previous action plan, and in this respect we have questions for the Minister. One of these is for example... But I don't think I'm going to read them, there's no time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U3	Time's up. Good fellows! Before we go any further, I, and I believe that we all have the great honour of welcoming the President of the Luxembourg Chamber of Representatives, His Excellency, Mr Mars di Bartolomeod, and, of course, our beloved President of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor. [[Let's hear it.]] I now request the Riigikogu's speech chair Jaak Madison!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U4	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the EKRE Group, I will report to the Minister for the Interior, Mr Hanno Pevkur, on the question of 'Limitations made by the government to resolve the migration crisis'. In the context of increasingly escalating immigration and the refugee crisis, Estonia has made promises to receive refugees on a larger scale than was promised to do 25. at the European Council on 30 June 2015. Originally, the position of the Estonian Government, supported by the European Union Affairs Commission, was that Estonia only accepts refugees voluntarily and in view of our capabilities. However, at the extraordinary Justice and Home Affairs Council of the European Union held on 22 September, a further 120,000 persons were distributed among 28 EU Member States by qualified majority and, unlike several other European countries, Estonia also supported this decision. Elik, our Minister of the Interior, voted in favour of refugee quotas in conflict with the mandate of the Riigikogu, according to which Estonia must prefer voluntary assistance to each other. On 26 June 2015, Mr Pevkur confirmed that on a voluntary basis Estonia is ready to receive 84-156 refugees, corresponding to Estonia's size and capacity. In this regard, we ask you to answer the following questions in accordance with § 139 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. Why did Estonia, unlike Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Romania, vote in favour of the plan presented by the European Commission at the extraordinary Justice and Home Affairs Council on 22 September to divide 120,000 persons between the Member States of the European Union? How is the application of refugee quotas in accordance with Estonian law by qualified majority? What is Estonia's capacity to receive refugees in two years? What sanctions can the European Commission take if Estonia fails to fulfil the obligation imposed on us to receive refugees to the extent permitted? Finally, in what areas is Estonia still a sovereign state where we are not obliged to comply with quotas, directives or regulations arising from the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U5	There's no more calls. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, a meeting of the Estonian Population Support Group will take place in this Chamber, convened by Rein Ratas. We're looking forward to active participation! Now for presence control. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U6	Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. The first item on the agenda is the second reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu on 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' submitted by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U7	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft decision took place on Tuesday 22 September. On the same day, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs held a debate between the two readings. It turned out that no amendments had been received. I will simply repeat the procedural decisions that were taken on Monday: the proposal for a second reading today, 24 September and the decision to be taken. All the Commission's decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U8	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Is this item intended to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments to draft decision 87 were received and the position of the commission is that a final vote should also be taken at the end of the second reading. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put to the final vote a draft decision of 87. Please take a stand and vote. Good fellows! At the request of the majority of the Riigikogu, 78 members of the Riigikogu, against 1, there are no abstentions, the amendment of the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' submitted by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union has been adopted as a decision. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U9	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the 37 draft consumer protection law initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government has submitted to you the full text of the draft law on consumer protection. It aims to transpose the Directive on consumer ADR in the European Parliament and to lay down the provisions necessary for the implementation of online consumer dispute resolution. For the sake of better readability of the law, the draft has been drafted in full. The current consumer protection law was adopted in 2004 and has been amended more than ten times. There is also a large volume of amendments due to the directives. The draft maintains the principles of the law in force today, includes the necessary provisions for the out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes and the regulation of the renewed Consumer Complaints Committee. Now the changes in detail. The Consumer ADR Directive obliges Member States to ensure that consumers are able to resolve out-of-court disputes relating to contracts concluded with traders easily, quickly and cheaply. The possibility of resolving both domestic and cross-border disputes in all sectors, with the exception of consumer disputes in the health and education sectors, must be guaranteed. The Commission estimates that the annual savings for consumers could be around 22.5 billion if there are functioning ADR entities that meet quality requirements. For the out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes, a new chapter has been included in the draft, setting out the quality requirements for out-of-court settlement entities and their procedures and laying down procedures for the assessment and recognition of compliance of consumer dispute resolution entities. An ADR entity may be established with a legal entity, whether governed by private or public law, or with a public authority. The most important requirements for an ADR entity are: The consumer can turn there with both domestic and cross-border disputes. The expertise, independence and impartiality of the natural persons responsible for resolving disputes are ensured. Disputes shall be settled free of charge or for a symbolic fee. The dispute settlement procedure shall be conducted within 90 days and transparency shall be ensured by making publicly available reports on the entity's activities. There are already several out-of-court dispute resolution entities operating in Estonia. The Consumer Complaints Board, the Insurance Conciliation Body at the Insurance Association and the Motor Insurance Mediation Body at the NGO Estonian Motor Insurance Fund are active at the Consumer Protection Board. Once the bill enters into force as a law, it is possible to assess the compliance of these entities and to recognise them as out-of-court entities in consumer disputes. For its part, the European Commission will set up an online interactive platform to resolve out-of-court disputes in online contracts. The platform brings together ADR entities from all Member States and allows the consumer to submit an application for dispute resolution online in a language of his choice. The platform is available in all the official languages of the European Union. The draft clarifies the competences and procedures of the already operating Consumer Complaints Committee, which will be fully aligned with the requirements of the Directive. The Consumer Complaints Committee is renamed the Consumer Disputes Committee in order to make the Commission's role more precise. The minimum threshold of EUR 20 has been waived when the Consumer Disputes Committee is contacted to increase access to out-of-court dispute resolution. The grounds for refusal to accept a consumer's application are laid down. For example, it is possible to refuse the procedure if the dispute is inexplicable, too difficult to deal with out-of-court proceedings or does not concern the rights protected by the law of the consumer. Traders shall be required to inform the consumer of the ADR entity to which the consumer can turn in order to resolve the dispute with the trader. In addition, e-commerce also has an obligation to inform consumers about the European Union's single online dispute resolution platform. In addition to the provisions on out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes, the draft introduces an obligation to invoice the trader. Invoice presentation means sending an invoice to a specific consumer at an address or medium previously agreed with him. It can also mean the consumer's post or e-mail address or mobile phone. Making invoices available only in the company's electronic customer service environment or online banking is permitted only with the express consent of the consumer. The receipt of an invoice is a necessary condition for the consumer to fulfil his fundamental contractual obligation to pay for the services provided to him. Several services of general interest are provided on the basis of durable contracts and are paid for their consumption on the basis of invoices. An undertaking shall have the right to decide which billing method is the cheapest for it to receive and shall only consider it to be part of the basic service. I'm sorry, I said the entrepreneur has the right to decide, but the idea was 'the company's right to decide'. This simply leaves the consumer disproportionately disadvantaged. So please support the decision of the Committee on Economic Affairs to conclude the first reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U11	Thank you. You have questions too, good waitress. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! I thank you for the excellent presentation you presented by reading off some official's paper. The first winning was that the law was written in a complete text this time. Would you please explain what this means? So far, have laws been presented to us piece by piece?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U13	Thank you. This is something you should know as a long-time member of the Riigikogu, without the help of the officials, that from time to time the amendments to the law, which are not presented in the full text, are indeed coming here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U14	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I also want to welcome the fact that one of these important areas will be properly regulated. But I'll ask you more specifically. There shall be an insurance conciliation body within the Insurance Association. However, we have a lot to hear about the activities of commercial banks lately. However, amounts will be transferred to accounts at random and deducted again. And then we hear that our banks, whose parent banks are in Sweden, treat clients here in Estonia differently than in the country where the parent company is located and unilaterally change the price lists. Is there a conciliation body in relation to the activities of commercial banks? And if it isn't, would it be necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U16	Thank you. In fact, the activities of commercial banks are regulated more widely by other laws and are supervised by the Financial Supervision Authority, with whom you may have encountered several times during your ministerial career. This supervision of them is clearly stronger, but if some of the services provided by the banks could be covered by consumer protection law, then it is certainly possible to set up a corresponding committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U17	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have a general question. How do you feel about the protection of consumers' rights in Estonia today? And does this law make consumer redress so-called 'harder', or give them even more rights in order to protect their rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U19	Thank you. Protection of consumer rights is to some extent a matter of balance. On the other hand, it is important here how far each undertaking has to go in order to explain these rights to the consumer. Ultimately, it is an economic whole. But I dare say that consumers' rights are protected in this respect, that consumers who wish to exercise their rights and argue about them can do so. I think that with the new bill that you are going to deal with here, it will become somewhat more convenient for the consumer. In addition, we also need a pan-European platform that can actually be used to hold disputes in its own language. So I dare say that rather we are going in the direction that consumer rights are even more and better protected, it becomes more comfortable.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U20	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U21	Thank you. I have such an opinion that consumer protection has still become much worse in recent years and, with any legislative amendment, the consumer is becoming increasingly vulnerable. Let's just take the changes you made last summer. Consumers' calls have become largely paid for certain amounts, food monitoring has almost disappeared, have been pushed off, and there is no cooperation with journalists. And when the Consumer Protection Board used to be full of people and clients, there's a hole in it right now, and we can't see any people in there with our complaints. My question first is how you comment on it. And why, for example, is social consumer protection not helping us? In European countries, for example, the main thing is social consumer protection, which is financed by the state and which is much more weighty than our so-called government extension of consumer protection or one of the branches of the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U22	Thank you. There were now a lot of questions and arguments. I am just saying, first of all, that with this bill, you can do the same work yourself, make proposals. You're the legislators here, not on the government side. Secondly, this EUR 20 threshold will be abolished. This means that it is possible to have a debate on smaller matters as well. As far as socialism is concerned, by this law, we are putting in place these mechanisms how this can be done under the law. Additional consumer protection associations can always be done. As you say, these are social movements. I remember that, at the time when the euro came, there was a movement here that was led by Valdo Randpere and which looked at the prices in the shops. It was very popular. So it's actually possible for one of the people to influence society.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U23	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U24	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Austet Minister! Within the framework of this draft, how will a single price be reached in the sales hall, but the cash register will show that the price is higher? At what price should the consumer receive the goods?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U25	Thank you. In fact, the law says that a misleading price must not be put out. It can even at one point be classified as a prohibited trading technique if it lures people. So the law describes this situation. But in the end, if a person is wrong and puts out the wrong price tag, then it will always be a local dispute.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U26	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This bill treats the consumer as a very specific natural person and excludes self-employed persons and small businesses. Why do we not treat all consumers equally? After all, the purpose of this law is to protect the weaker party from corporate maladministration.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U28	Thank you. We addressed the same issue in the Commission. Let's just say that consumer law extends to self-employed people in such cases when self-employed people buy a thing they use for private purposes and to a lesser extent in economic and professional activities. However, the general consumer policy of the European Union is based on the principle that a natural person is the weaker party who deals with other parties who are then entrepreneurs. But, for example, between two smaller private limited companies, there is no weaker party to be taken as a consumer and taken to defend in a dispute. That is the logic of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U29	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. How binding are the decisions and injunctions of the Consumer Protection Board for those who have been prosecuted without recourse to the courts?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U31	Thank you. Consumer protection procedures are not indicted (this is so in criminal law). In general, however, the principle here is that a large part of the problems will be solved in a relatively simpler procedure if, for example, there is a judicial dispute. The consumer dispute could go to court later, which we discussed in the Commission. However, the point is that since a larger number of such disputes will eventually be resolved more quickly and with less effort and, for example, it will be easier for a large shop to pay court fees than for one consumer, it is usually not legal proceedings, but simply by explaining the consumer protection procedure that both parties should have to go through.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U32	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U33	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister! The question is simple. If this thing goes online, it's welcome. But do some people who do not have a computer, say, at an older age, have consumer protection at home, like during the elections, and help them to make a complaint there? There is another part of the question. The Internet is a nice and informative and quick thing, and the copy-paste buttons are also available. I ask how you describe the smell on the Internet. For example, if you don't like the smell, a person complains about the smell.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U34	Thank you. I'll start at the back end. I'm sure you can describe in a much more colorful way how many people can even do it in videos using words. So with words it is possible to describe many things on the Internet, I totally agree. Ultimately, all of this must be expressed in the same way in litigation. Dance number probably doesn't work. But when it comes to going online, consumer disputes always make it possible to go on the ground and get help from the Consumer Protection Board. There's nothing behind it that nobody can go to the Internet or the computer. But, of course, in time, the proportion of those who do not use them to hold their own disputes is decreasing, after all, they should make life more comfortable. Especially in the case of cross-border matters, I do not think either of us would probably imagine that we would travel to another country because of this, in order to present our dispute. Somehow, however, a person must receive it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U35	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I would like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Mikhail Korbi, Vice-Chairman of the Economic Commission!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U36	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the draft Consumer Protection Act at its meeting on 14 September 2015. Ms Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Ms Thea Palm, Head of the Internal Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Ms Riina Piliste, adviser to the Consumer and Competition Policy Department, took part in the discussion. During the presentation of the draft proposal, the following topics were discussed: First, the methods of invoicing were discussed. There was an interest in whether the citizen had the right to ask for an invoice on paper in addition to the electronic account. The representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications explained that the bill had to be issued according to the consumer's wishes, i.e. also on paper. There was a debate on the handling of re-invoicing. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications stated that re-invoices are sent if the citizen has not received the invoice or has not found it in the electronic system. It was proposed that the draft should set a deadline for issuing a paper invoice after, for example, five years. The legal force of the decisions of the Consumer Disputes Committee was then discussed. The draft does not change the existing law to the extent that the Commission's decisions are subject to conciliation. Nearly 20% of the Commission's decisions are known to be not complied with. In the event of non-compliance, the trader shall be entered on the blacklist on the website of the Consumer Protection Board. Interest was expressed as to whether the draft could render the consumer dispute committee's decisions enforceable under the enforcement procedure. A representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications stated that this possibility was considered, but it was decided that binding decisions should still be taken by the court. Deadlines for settlement of disputes and fees were discussed. There was an interest in the draft extension of the deadline for settling disputes from 60 to 90 days. The representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications explained that the 90-day requirement stems from the Directive, but disputes can be resolved in a shorter time frame. As there are also cross-border disputes in these disputes, the 90-day limit is more suitable for processing. During the debate on the draft proposal, the question was raised regarding the different prices of pre-trial dispute resolution in public and private law. In particular, the consumer cannot turn to the Public Consumer Disputes Committee if a private pre-trial dispute resolution unit has been set up in this area. At the same time, the draft confers on the private entity the right to charge a symbolic fee for the pre-trial settlement of the dispute. However, the public committee at the Consumer Protection Board does not charge any fees. What could be a symbolic reward and could this regulation be a violation of the principle of equal treatment enshrined in the Constitution? According to officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, a symbolic remuneration under the Directive is permitted in both public and private proceedings. It is therefore a matter of national agreement. According to the Directive, the national amount in the Member States could remain within the limits of EUR 20 to 100. The draft preparatory working group proposed a procedural fee of EUR 5. A symbolic amount would, in other words, reduce the number of "unnecessary" complaints. Finally, the Commission took procedural decisions: the proposal to close the first reading and set the deadline for amendments at 5 a.m. on 8 October 2015. Both decisions were taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U37	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least one question. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U38	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Waitress! Isn't the new bill designed to create a greater chance of confusion? The minister just said that if the answer from the Internet doesn't work, you can go. But why don't we just get there right away and then go online and ask why I didn't get the answer? And the extension of the question is how to understand the taste of chlorine, for example. Who has tasted chlorine? You know that during World War I, chlorine was used as a war gas. The one who tasted it was ripe, too. Does chlorine have a chlorine taste, it tastes like ammonium chloride, it tastes like chlorine dioxide? What's the taste of chlorine? Explain it to me. What color is chlorine? How many people know chlorine is a gas, which is green?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U39	Thank you, dear questioner. The issue of the taste of chlorine has not been discussed in the Commission, but it is certainly very good that the draft has been presented in full. I think we can discuss different angles and different aspects here, but I do not believe that the draft has been tabled for confusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U40	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the commission is that the first reading of bill 37 should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting 37 amendments, including 8 October at 5 p.m. The first reading is closed and the second item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U41	Let us move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the Bill 72 on Chemicals, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U42	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft chemical law to you. The current chemicals law was adopted in 1998 and has been extensively amended several times. As a result of numerous changes, the law's comprehension has deteriorated and it is difficult to read the law. Given the quality of the current chemicals law and the volume of further changes, the draft has been drafted in full. The need to transpose and implement a number of European Union legislation is a driving force behind the drafting of the proposal. The most significant changes concern the regulation of installations at major accident risk and result from the transposition of the so-called SEVESO III Directive. The first objective of the amendments is to increase the safety of businesses at risk of major accidents by specifying the regulations applicable to them. Companies at risk of a major accident, i.e. some 60 companies, must, for example, carry out exercises at least once every three years. The aim of the course is to assess safety measures and their relevance. The training courses shall use the training legend and internal emergency plans set out in the risk analysis (the exercise course). The Rescue Board will prepare external emergency preparedness plans as well as assess the domino effect. The aim of this action is to improve safety and preparedness to respond appropriately in the event of an accident and to provide expertise in land-use planning. The second objective is to make it difficult and prevent the commission of terrorist offences and to limit the availability of explosives precursors. Compared to the current law, the amendments are as follows: A contact point shall be designated for the purpose of notification of transactions involving suspected explosives precursors. The contact point for Estonia is the Police and Border Guard Board. Only cashless settlements are allowed for the sale of restricted substances or products containing them and the seller is obliged to submit an economic notification. The CPC supervises the requirements for the marketing of explosives precursors in retail trade. In the rest of the processing chain, surveillance is carried out by the Police and Border Guard Board. The third objective is to ensure that, in the event of accidents involving the extraction of oil or gas on the high seas, sufficient information is available in order to draw timely conclusions and implement appropriate safeguards. As Estonia does not have an open sea where oil and gas are extracted, Estonia does not have to transpose the directive in the majority. The obligation to transpose is a reporting obligation. Companies registered in Estonia or their subsidiaries may theoretically be active in extracting oil or gas somewhere else on the high seas. Such operators must report on accidents under their responsibility and these reports must also be shared with other countries. The fourth objective is, in the interests of legal clarity, to delete provisions which are incompatible with the European Union Regulation on the classification of dangerous substances, namely the CLP Regulation. The remaining changes are largely formal and consist in making structure more logical and harmonising style. The government has proposed to enforce the law on 1 December inclusive. The date of entry into force has been chosen on the basis that the deadline for the implementation of European Union acts has expired (it was 1 July) and that by December all necessary draft regulations can be put into effect by law at the same time. I would like to support the proposal of the Committee on the Environment and to conclude the first reading of the draft. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U43	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Here's the question. For a long time in Estonia, the issue of dangerous cargo has created emotions and a sense of danger. To what extent does this bill create additional arrangements in this area? What is your assessment of how this situation has changed? Is this problem still acutely raised, or are there facts that confirm that the situation has improved?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U45	Thank you. I don't have any figures on the shipment of dangerous chemicals, but the bill does concern the side that all of them need to be accounted for from start to finish. If you want more detailed figures, if there have been any incidents or any problems, I can send you this later.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U46	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U47	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister! The deadline is December 1st. What formula and what kind of money do you use to lower the level of risk in the warehouses where ammonium nitrate, potassium nitrate, sodium nitrate are stored? How do you secure fertilizer stores, where virtually all phosphates are one of the components of explosives? Where do you get these resources if you don't even have the money to raise teachers' salaries? So forgive me, but can you suggest how you can make the ports of Kopli next to the Port of Tallinn so safe that when they explode, Tallinn will remain?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U48	Thank you. There were many questions and some arguments. Teachers' salaries, of course, are rising, which is good to know. In the government, we did the budget. I hope I don't betray state secrets, but teachers are one of those groups that actually get a bigger raise than the rest. That's one. Secondly, there has been talk about the deadline for the entry into force of the law, after which all other activities will begin. But safety activities are already in progress.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U49	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U50	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I have such a simple question. I fully agree that chemical companies need to be properly secured. But would we be dealing with this law if it were not for the European Union directive? Would the ministry have come up with an initiative without it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U51	Thank you. I think it would have been, because in recent weeks, chemical companies themselves have been discussing this issue. And, as far as I know, they had the opinion that some regulations might even be more stringent than that in this law. So there are also initiatives from market participants.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U52	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U53	Thank you. I mean, I have this feeling that there is not going to be an increase in teachers' pay, but an increase in danger. Have you thought about informing citizens about dangerous substances and the standards for dealing with them? That if there's a sweet smell in the air, that means there's phenolates somewhere, and if there's a bit of a bitter smell in the air, there's some other interesting thing. If you smell cherry in your nose a little bit, there's cyanides out there. You could tell the people what the smell means and how dangerous it is. You're saying that the 15th cigarette changes the gene code, but I'm sorry, one decent sip of phenol changes the whole gene.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U54	Thank you! It was more of a suggestion than a question. I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U55	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, When was this European directive, which we are now pursuing, introduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U57	I'll tell you when. If we refer to different guidelines, some come from 2008, but they also come from a later period. I am talking about the REACH regulations on which these classifications are based.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U58	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In recent weeks, the use of chlorine dioxide to treat various diseases has been very high. Does this bill also provide for any rules to prevent such mistakes from happening again, so that people can understand that chlorine is still toxic, and that no other such substances are still used for therapeutic purposes?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U60	Thank you. It's not like this law does people's education for themselves. I find it extremely regrettable that people are dealing with such foolishness. After all, someone may also put on the Internet the knowledge that blue pellets under the toilet can heal something. Nor can the entire Riigikogu be opposed by wisdom, nor can this law alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U61	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U62	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, When the first directive was introduced in 2008, we were already a Member State of the European Union and the composition of Riigikogu XI was working. And such an area, where the safety and security of chemical companies is the issue, is crucial, I believe, to a very large part of the Estonian population. Why are we going to discuss this issue only seven years after the first directive? This could have come up as early as the XI.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U63	Thank you. I may have been inaccurate before. I mentioned this regulation concerning the list of chemicals. The directive itself is from 2012, i.e. with regard to SEVESO. Now the new SEVESO III. We have already transposed some of the requirements in the previous chemicals law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U64	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I now ask for a presentation of Riigikogu Chair Deputy Chairman of the Environment Commission, Rein Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U65	Mr President! Honourable Riigikogu! The draft Chemical Act 72 was discussed at the meeting of the Parliament's Environment Committee on the 14th day of this month. The meeting was attended by the Head and Adviser of the Quality Infrastructure Department of the Internal Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Adviser to the Rescue and Crisis Management Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior and the Legal Adviser to the Law Enforcement and Criminal Policy Department, as well as the Executive Director of the Estonian Chemical Industry Association and chemical and environmental advisor. At the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, the Adviser to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Head of the Service presented the draft Chemical Act. The same material was presented, which we have now heard in summary from Mr Kristen Michal, Minister. At the hearing, it was explained that the current chemicals law has already become difficult to read due to numerous changes and, at times, difficult to understand all that we have just heard. The representatives of the Chemical Industry Association stressed that the draft Chemical Law procedure should and should continue to cooperate more closely with the Ministry of Social Affairs at this stage. This was accepted by both the members of the Commission and the representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications who presented the draft. Such closer cooperation would have been necessary and it is still possible to do so in the course of the procedure. In particular, the Chairman of our Committee on the Environment stressed, as a matter of general wisdom, that inter-ministerial cooperation is left to be desired, both in the draft under discussion and in previous practice. The Executive Director of the Estonian Chemical Industry Association mentioned that they were involved in the process of drafting about the middle, not from the very beginning. They have made technical and substantive proposals on the draft, which have been taken into account in many cases, particularly in the case of proposals for improvements of a technical nature. A serious discussion at the Commission meeting was raised by § 12 of the draft, concerning the transposition of Article 45 of the CLP Regulation, i.e. the provision of information to poison centres. The representatives of the Chemical Industry Association found that § 12 is largely negligible. One Member of the Commission also asked whether this paragraph should not be deleted at all if it is trivial. But it was opposed by representatives of the Chemical Association, as well as representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. However, it was found to be a necessary paragraph and perhaps a half step ahead of the current state. It concerns, in particular, the provision of information on dangerous mixtures and detergents. There are no exact times: there are no names or indicators of how and what must be provided. According to the information provided to the Commission, the information procedure is currently being developed within the European Commission and will soon be here. Then the necessary laws, regulations and regulations can lay down this procedure. In the meantime, according to the representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, this soon, hopefully, will be filled in by the Health Board with its respective guidance material. The Committee on the Environment decided unanimously in all the decision-points: to propose a bill to put 72 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the 24th day of this month, to propose that the first reading of the draft be completed, to propose a deadline for the draft amendments. 8 October 2005 at 4 p.m. and appoint the draft rapporteur for the Commission here. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U66	Thank you. You have at least one question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U67	Good manager! Good waitress! For years, there has been talk of a major accident involving chemicals near Tallinn Port, and the need to control major accidents has been highlighted in the case of Directive 2012/18/EU. I will ask you directly what are the most important points that will improve the control of a possible major accident that has been said that half of the city of Tallinn could be destroyed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U68	If you ask the honourable questioner what is most important in this bill for the purpose of a site with a possible major accident threat, specifically in the sense of the Port of Tallinn, there is immediately a separate section entitled 'Requirement for the transit of ammonium nitrate with high nitrogen content'. This is the most important in this case, not to mention many other safety requirements, which are also included in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U69	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U70	I'm a little more specific. As I understand it, this threat has existed, but to this day, these moments of disaster control have not been in the law. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U71	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U72	Please return the microphone to Peter Ernits so he can clarify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U73	I wanted to ask you that if this point that you mentioned allows you to control the dangers, either until now, these options were either nonexistent or smaller.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U74	Thank you. I would say that the current chemicals law, which has already been in force, if I am not mistaken, 17 years of age, provides for preventive measures, corresponding procedures that need to be carried out to avoid danger. A number of other laws also concern the use and transport of chemicals, whether or not they do. These safety requirements are in place. So we cannot say that there is nothing to prevent danger, accident or danger from occurring. These requirements exist. In this case, however, it has been attempted, in other words, to clarify the safety issue more, and so is the transposition of relevant European legislation, in particular directives, into legislative provisions and references to regulations that are no longer subject to duplication in law, but are directly transposed. They've been referred to here. Danger doesn't go away. Danger stays. It is important and it is also clearly stated in the content of the draft law that it is as likely as possible to avoid a high risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U75	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! There are a lot of companies in Estonia that do not qualify as hazardous substances processing companies, but they use dangerous substances. For example, Saku Beer Factory uses ammonia in its production process. As a volunteer savior of Saku commando myself, I am aware that the Saku Brewery has a very competent information plan to operate in a crisis situation in cooperation with the local government. However, this is not the case across Estonia; in many local governments, so-called crisis committees or crisis plans are relatively formal. Has the role of local authorities in the regulation of this law been discussed in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U77	Thank you for this probably very constructive question. Unfortunately, at the meeting of our Committee on the Environment on 14 September, the involvement of local authorities in regulating threats and crises, reducing risk levels etc. was not addressed. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U78	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? They do. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask the representative of the Estonian Central Party Group of the speech chair of the Riigikogu Märt Sultsi!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U79	Honourable Vice President! Colleagues! I mean, they were talking about food chemistry and the food industry, but they weren't talking about food supplements. In other European countries, the benzoates are prohibited as food supplements, not elsewhere, but in a large number of European countries as well as in other countries of the world. Benzoate, whether sodium benzoate, potassium benzoate or any of the compounds of alkali metals, is the main ingredient of addictive substances and sedatives. In this case, the food industry is doing such tricks to make a person depend on a particular food article. If he hasn't been drinking yogurt, for example, he's not feeling well. He's got to get a little sip of yogurt every day. That's how a group of hidden drug addicts are created. At the same time, in the case of lean alcohol, the use of ethyl chloride and methyl chloride, such interesting substances, the small supplement contributes terribly much to the absorption of alcohol into the blood. I mean, usually, a person pees out all the weak alcohol, and it doesn't work as devastatingly, but when you put a little squirt on an organic chlorine compound, the whole thing is in the blood. This issue was not addressed at all. So, at next reading, I would like to ask for items such as food chemistry and precisely benzoates to be placed on the agenda. Dr. Vassilyev knows very well what these things mean, or ask the drug lords or psychiatrists who deal with drug addicts. I'm sure we need this know-how in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-24_U80	Thank you! No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is that the first reading should be concluded. I will set the deadline for submitting 72 amendments, including 8 October at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the third item is on the agenda. Dear colleagues, our hearing today is therefore closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Take care! Closure of the sitting at 10.59 a.m.
