ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Monday session of the 5th working week of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Do colleagues have a desire to pass on drafts or enquiries? Please, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today launching two draft laws: firstly, a draft law amending the Family Act and related amendments to other laws; secondly, a draft law amending the Succession Act and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, when dealing with these two draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U3	Thank you. Colleague Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U4	Thank you, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Centre Party Group have an inquiry to address Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madis. An inquiry shall concern the unjustified delay in the event of a breach of the limit. As we know, as we approach the Estonian-Russian border either via the border crossing points of Narva-Ivangorod, Koidula Whether there is a green light at the border, you have to go through the waiting area and pay this fee. So we ask the Chancellor of Justice how justified that is. In total, we have three questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U5	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U6	Honorable Chairman! Colleagues! Since there is any confusion in the education landscape and in the financing of education, this has prompted the Minister to come forward with another question. The question is yet again about valuing the work of kindergarten teachers. Early childhood education teachers receive their qualifications at the university, just as the rest of the teachers do. Kindergarten teachers have the same responsibility as school teachers, often greater. Teacher qualification requirements, refresher training and other quality assurance requirements apply to both school teachers and kindergarten teachers. Qualification requirements must be met. However, the minimum wage for kindergarten teachers is not guaranteed, as for school teachers. At the moment, there is no guarantee of a minimum rate for school teachers, and Mr Lii could not tell us, not to mention that the salaries of kindergarten teachers would reach the salaries of school teachers. Schoolteachers' leave is also very different from that of kindergarten teachers. If schoolteacher leave is 56 days, then kindergarten teachers have 42 days. Thus, there is a situation where the same standards have been created, but the benefits are nevertheless very, very different. And here are the questions. For what reasons can the state not set minimum rates of pay for kindergarten teachers? For what reason can a teacher with a pedagogical higher education and qualification requirements not be paid to the same level as primary school teachers? Why can't kindergarten teachers' holidays be equal to those of the teacher? In addition to the signatures of the members of the Central Party Group, there are the signatures of 1261 kindergarten teachers. If the same bill is flushed down, 1261 signatures cannot be flushed down. So strength and strength, Mr Minister, in giving a vague answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U7	No further drafts or inquiries will be submitted. On behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two enquiries and two draft laws, and the management board of the Riigikogu processes them according to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Please, let's do the presence check! 79 members of the Riigikogu are present, 22 are missing. Let's go to the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? There is one specification of the agenda. By agreement between the parties to the inquiry and the addressee, Minister for Foreign Affairs Marina Kaljurand responds to inquiry 75, scheduled for today's eighth item on 26 October. a. It is therefore proposed to remove the eighth item from the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall vote on the agenda with this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. 75 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, there was no one against, one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U8	Let's go to today's agenda and start answering questions. Members of the Riigikogu Jaanus Karilaid, Kersti Sarapuu, Artur Talvik, Andres Ammas and Märt Sults presented the first question to the Auditor General of the Riigikogu and the topic is the impact of the 2012 audit of the National Audit Office of the Port of Tallinn. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Arthur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U9	Good President! Good ambassadors! Jaanus Karilaid initiated an inquiry, which I also signed. I'll try to introduce it to you briefly. The inquiry is addressed to the Honorable Auditor General Alar Karis and concerns the 2012 audit of the National Audit Office of the Port of Tallinn and its impact. The National Audit Office already introduced an audit to the Riigikogu in 2012, which directly concerned the procurement of the Port of Tallinn and the reasonableness of the channelling of cash flows. The audit "Building the 17th quay of Muuga container terminal" clearly shows how the management of the Port of Tallinn has repeatedly ignored the Public Procurement Act and the buildings have become more expensive in an incomprehensible way after the completion of the procurement process millions of euros. In addition, all kinds of observations have been made. The questions of inquiry are as follows: The first question: 'What changes have the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications made with the company board since the aforementioned 2012 audit? In the light of this audit, did the then Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications start a rapid and constructive cooperation to remedy the shortcomings? What positive examples would you highlight? ' The second question: 'The Council had the opportunity to make appropriate changes to the organisation of the Bureau's work after the above audit was published. What changes were implemented? " The third question: 'Audit pointed out that public procurement law was repeatedly violated, economically harmful decisions were made, and the Bureau also violated due diligence. In the light of the relevant examples, what is the Council's responsibility? Is this sufficient today, or does the National Audit Office consider that this would require more specific legal regulation? ' I, too, have such a general philosophy that the actual impact of the audit of the National Audit Office on society is still great. Will the audit just stand on a shelf somewhere, or will it, at least, come to the knowledge of the ambassadors? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U10	Thank you. Please respond to the inquiry by Auditor General Alar Karise!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As you have heard, three members of the Central Party of the Riigikogu and two members of the Free Party Group submitted to me on 16 September. a inquiry into the audit published by the National Audit Office in 2012 on the establishment of the 17th quay of Muuga container terminal. The question is whether and how the minister and council that ruled the participation of the Port of Tallinn took into account the observations and recommendations of the National Audit Office's report. In order to answer the inquiry, the National Audit Office made an official inquiry to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and reviewed the materials and minutes of the meetings of the Supervisory Board of Tallinn AS during the period six months before and after the publication of the audit report. I will answer the questions in the order in which they are presented. Question: 'What changes have been made by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications together with the Company Council since the aforementioned 2012 audit? In the light of this audit, did the then Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications start a rapid and constructive cooperation to remedy the shortcomings? What positive examples would you highlight? ' In response to an inquiry, the National Audit Office asked the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications whether and what specific measures the minister then took in order to avoid future deficiencies in the management, owner supervision and organisation of the Port of Tallinn AS. We also asked whether and what orders the Minister of AS gave to the Tallinn Port Council in order to strengthen the supervision of the owner. In doing so, we asked for a reference to be made to relevant documents, sources or arrangements which would confirm the validity of the reply of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The reply of the Ministry shows that after the audit, the Port of Tallinn AS has made changes to the organisation of the work in the field of procurement, but no reference or material has been added indicating whether the changes have initiated the participation at the time of publication of the audit by the minister or the Supervisory Board of the Port of Tallinn of AS. On its own initiative, the Management Board of the Port of Tallinn of AS has created a procurement manager's position in the company after the audit, as has the Port of Tallinn of AS allegedly reviewed its standard contracts and forms of procurement documents. In addition to the above, last week on Friday evening, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications informed the National Audit Office that it was looking for a special auditor in connection with public procurement to assess whether the contracts concluded by AS Tallinna Sadam in 2005 were lawful. It is also planned to assess the contracts relating to the construction of quay 17 at Muuga container terminal. The second question: 'The Council had the opportunity, after the above audit was published, to make appropriate amendments to the organisation of the Bureau's work. What changes were implemented? The Port of Tallinn Supervisory Board of AS discussed the draft report of the National Audit Office just before the audit was published and immediately after the disclosure. The minutes of the Supervisory Board meetings show that the Supervisory Board did not make any changes to the management and organisation of AS Tallinna Sadam. Based on the legal analysis commissioned by the Management Board of AS Tallinna Sadam, the Supervisory Board unanimously decided that the Management Board of AS Tallinna Sadam has performed due diligence in relation to the extension of the eastern part of Muuga Harbour and has not caused any damage to the company, which is why there is no reasonable claim for damages against the members of the Management Board. Question 3: 'Audit pointed out that the Public Procurement Act was repeatedly violated, economically harmful decisions were made, and the Bureau also violated due diligence. In the light of the relevant examples, what is the Council's responsibility? Is this sufficient today, or does the National Audit Office consider that this would require more specific legal regulation? ' The question of the liability of a member of the board of directors of a State company can be considered as dual: liability to the company and liability to the owner. The liability towards the company is governed by the Commercial Code, which states in § 327: 'The members of the Council who have caused damage to the public limited liability company by breach of their obligations shall be jointly and severally liable for compensation for the damage suffered. A member of the Supervisory Board shall be relieved of his or her responsibilities if he or she demonstrates that he or she has fulfilled his or her obligations with due care of the undertaking. 'The liability of a member of the supervisory board of a State company towards the owner, the State, should be laid down in more detail in the State Assets Act. The word'responsibility' occurs in one form or another 25 times in the Treasury Act. The responsible minister is mentioned 21 times in law, one time talking about the controller of the register. The word'responsibility' occurs only twice in the Treasury Act and in either case it is not related to the activities of a member of the board of directors of a State company. However, in my opinion, the main question is not whether the responsibility of a member of the Council is sufficiently specifically regulated or not. The main question is, in my opinion, whether the owner sees or does not see the need to take responsibility for the Council member in justified cases. Over the years, a number of cases have come to the public where the board of directors of a national company has failed to carry out its supervisory tasks. I am thinking above all of the former state-owned companies called Werol and Eesti Viljasalv. So far, the country has never taken responsibility for any member of the board. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The question of responsibility is, in many ways, to you. It is up to you to decide and discuss whether or not this practice on the liability of a member of the board of directors of a national company is appropriate for you. If not, then it is also your choice whether you see a solution to specifying regulations or requiring compliance with existing ones. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U12	Thank you, Reverend Auditor General. You have questions too. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General! We heard from your reply that the Council did not make any changes after the audit, and in the end you also reached the heart of the issue of how the responsibility of the members of the Council is at all. This is certainly also a question for the Riigikogu. I ask, however, that I think the National Audit Office made another audit in 2013, if I am not mistaken. This was the subject of the management of state-owned enterprises and the role of the Soviets in this. Maybe you can expand the subject and tell me how it has been reacted, how the Ministry of Economic Affairs has reacted. Has this reaction become more lively or promising since the case of corruption was discovered in the Port of Tallinn, which is currently under investigation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U14	Yes, the management of state companies was audited by the National Audit Office. A corresponding overview of Erkki Raasukes was also ordered, as you remember, which in many ways overlapd with what the National Audit Office said in its position. Now the questions. Has there been any follow-up? The debate has certainly increased; not only has the public discussed this issue, but the Government of the Republic has also begun to discuss it. As we know, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure has also taken steps to change some of the companies and their management. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance is developing a so-called white paper. If you ask my opinion, my view is that this is not the way to do things, although it should be commended that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure has taken up the matter. We simply do not have an overview of which companies are needed, which companies should sell, which companies should be placed on the stock exchange, which shares should be dissolved or which are left with a minority shareholding. Without such clarity, it may not be wise to act in haste with some companies. But it is a good thing, in my opinion, that this issue is being talked about and that action is being taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U15	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! As I have heard here with surprise, the members of the board of companies in the country have not, as they have done, been responsible for their activities. What should be done specifically to make their responsibility real?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U17	A member of the Council can be held responsible when he knows what he is responsible for. I gave a couple of examples here. One was the Werol factory, where the National Audit Office recommended that the board of the company be held liable for difficulties. Then Minister Tuiksoo refused. The second, perhaps a more marked example, is about the Estonian Viljasalve, where the board did not check whether the board of directors ensured that the grain's security reserve was preserved. The paradox is that at that time the crop was a state secret and the right of access to state secrets was neither the members of the Council nor the same board that actually had access to these data. So if you don't have rights, you can't be very responsible for anything. I think it's a matter of conscience. I have also been on several Councils myself. If people are competent, it is also possible to demand responsibility. This is partly the answer to the previous question, which should be in the Council. There should be people who not so much possess this particular institution, but who know the subject and who have experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U18	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U19	Good President! Dear Auditor General, In the same audit, which is in itself a very thorough and interesting reading, you point to a great many shortcomings. And from what you are saying, it can be concluded that none of the recommendations were actually taken by either the owner or the council. Some things were even challenged, if I remember correctly. My question is a little bit broader. You're doing very thorough and good audits. What is the impact of these audits on society at all, and are you satisfied with this impact? Are they effective enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U20	The impact of the audit is not only on the agenda of the National Audit Office, because every time I communicate with my colleagues, this issue of influence is always on the agenda. But I think it would go a long way if I were to start talking now about the impact of audits and its various forms. It is clear that the Estonian National Audit Office is not a judge, as is the case in some other countries, such as Spain, Portugal and Belgium, where there is also the right to be punished in court. I don't think we need that right. However, there are certainly institutions in our country to which we also addressed in the context of this audit. For starters, the D.A.'s office, with whom we had a very long correspondence. In the end, however, it was found that neither a false nor a crime was involved, and the question was awaiting a solution. So we will certainly do the best we can, but these are the other institutions that, within the limits of their competence, have to decide whether or not to take the next steps, be it the government or the Riigikogu, which would require the government to take such steps. I certainly do not want to get there with this talk that the National Audit Office works in the face, but that there is no impact at all. I'm sure it'll work. The recent Peer Review, i.e. the international evaluation of colleagues, found that the Estonian National Audit Office has a sufficient impact and 50.60% of our proposals are taken into account. But there are always exceptions and the case of the Port of Tallinn is, unfortunately, the exception where nothing happened. I do not want to say that the events that have taken place in the past have certainly affected later events, but today we see that there is a problem waiting to be resolved in the Port of Tallinn. If there had been intervention a few years earlier and these same internal controls had worked better, then perhaps some things would not have happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U21	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U22	Thank you, manager. Dear Auditor General, I was also a member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, and I remember these audits, not only about the Port of Tallinn, but also about Eesti Energia, for example. The National Audit Office made very thorough reports, audits and precepts, but they were taken into account in very few cases. I'm asking how many of these cases have reached the DA's office. In how many cases has the prosecutor's office initiated proceedings, how many of these cases? After all, these are very large sums of money and, in the opinion of the National Audit Office, very serious errors.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U23	I can't answer the question of how many cases there have been, but there have been cases where the DA's office has started proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U24	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U25	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Auditor General! That's the kind of thing I want to ask. Since nothing was discovered in 2012, did you apply any new methodology or other things in 2015? How could you suddenly have such a concern as you said, for a few hundred million euros, even though it wouldn't be as if you discovered someone's concern? Or maybe it was sloppy that this concern was not discovered in 2012?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U26	Thank you. In 2015, we did not carry out a corresponding audit; this concern was clarified in other procedures. A question can always be asked as to how long the subject of one audit report should continue to be monitored after the report has been made public. There are certainly court cases, we are trying to take this very seriously, where we keep some reports alive. In other words, some time later we will make an inquiry or a short audit to see what events have followed our audit. The truth is that it is not always going to happen right after the report is published. Sometimes we see events where reference is made to our report after four to five years. But sometimes the impact begins to occur very quickly, as soon as the National Audit Office goes somewhere to carry out its own audit, the events behind it will also follow. Some things have been fixed before our report is finished.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U27	Thank you. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U28	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The report gave the impression that the National Audit Office could not, as if, do anything to eliminate the irregularities detected in the legislative procedure. You can draw attention and contact the prosecutor's office, and that's all. Can it be concluded that the investigation of a crime and the punishment of criminals will continue to work in such a way that the perpetrator himself must make a statement about himself?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U29	What can I say to that question? It is clear that we are doing everything in our power, and letters to the DA's office are not the only way. Today's appearance before the Riigikogu is also one of the forms of action in order for something to happen. Who has to apply? Is it the criminal himself? I don't think so. I believe that the institutions of the Estonian state, which have been invited to do so, are carrying out their tasks with all seriousness. I am certainly not the person who assesses whether one or the other matter was deliberately or unintentionally excluded from the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U30	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U31	Thank you, Honourable Director! Good Auditor General! The Port of Tallinn is a chicken that lays eggs for gold and works hard. Has the National Audit Office ever been approached at government level with the question whether it is worth selling one or the other of these golden eggs from laying hens? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U32	The National Audit Office has certainly been approached through the initiation of some legislative amendment, in which case the National Audit Office has reacted with a letter of formal notice, letter or attention management at the session of the Government of the Republic. And these cases are not few at all. This is the same aspect that we have pointed out in the same audit or review of companies that we did, where we asked the government to clarify which companies are needed and which ones are not needed, which ones are to be placed on the stock market and which ones are not. As far as placing on the stock market is concerned, the Prime Minister of his time also failed to take one company to the stock market, because the Prime Minister of that time also found that this was not the most sensible step. So there are many things that the National Audit Office does every day, not only through audit reports, which also reach this Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U33	Thank you, Reverend Auditor General, for answering the question. No more questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish to negotiate. We have passed the first item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U34	We will go to the second item on the agenda: Members of the Riigikogu Martin Repinski, Kadri Simson, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Lauri Laas, Andrei Novikov, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Rein Ratas, Jaanus Kariladi, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korbi, Peeter Ernitsa and Mailis Reps presented an inquiry into statements by defence ministers Hannes Hanso concerning public sector employees on social media. In the name of the heirs, Mr Repinski will be given the floor first.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U35	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I will present an inquiry into the statements made by public sector employees on social media. Urmas Reitelmann, a specialist in the Public Relations Department of the Estonian Defence League, expressed an opinion on refugees and Russians living in Estonia on social media. This is a second very unsuccessful application from a member of the administration of the Ministry of Defence. In the summer, Captain Hannes Võrno, an officer of the Defence Forces' headquarters and communications battalion's information centre, called refugees Murjanians and beasts. Urmas Reitelmann wrote the following answer to his Facebook account: 'Where do you see refugees? There is filth pouring into Europe, refugees sitting with families in refugee camps close to the Syrian border to wait for the chance to return home. We are aspiring to ordinary human trash, which must be rejected by all means. In Estonia, there are 300,000 chicks who are not adopted here, how do you think it would be possible to turn these millions of comfort roaches into people? " This statement offended many Russians living in Estonia who speak a very good Estonian language, who are members of the Defence League or are undergoing military service. This statement divides Estonian society and is a direct threat to Estonia and the security of our people. Such statements cancel out all the work that the Estonian state has done for years to ensure that the Estonian Russians are loyal and integrate into our group. The Defence League is a voluntary military organisation operating in the Ministry of Defence's area of government, a military organisation that holds weapons and carries out military exercises, which carries out tasks under the Defence Union Act. Despite the specific views of the Prime Minister and the previous Minister of Defence that the author of such statements is not suitable for his post, the management of the Defence League has not responded adequately to what has happened. The author still works in the Defence League, although no longer as a specialist in the Public Relations Department. However, this step also took two weeks to complete. In this context, we have the following questions: 'How is the publication of the personal opinion of persons working in the field of public relations under the administration of the Ministry of Defence regulated? Do you consider such public incitement to hatred to be permitted if the person does so outside working hours? What effect does such hate speech have on our security? How do NATO and our cooperation partners in the European Union view such statements? Do you think that the person who made such a statement can continue to work in the Defence League, or essentially in your area of administration? ' For my part, I personally regret the fact that such enquiries have to be made at all. In the case of a normal system, I think Reitelmann should have been released from the Defence League on the same day. In fact, he acted very aggressively against the people that the Defence League must protect. In doing so, he insulted the people living in Estonia. I think this case shows that the government's words and actions differ. The Estonian people are always taught that we must show solidarity and not discriminate against anyone, but a high-ranking civil servant is promoted to another place instead of being punished and dismissed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U36	Thank you. Please respond to the inquiry, Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U37	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! If the previous speaker said that he was sorry that such enquiries had to be made in the Riigikogu, then I can only agree with him. I am also very sorry that I, as Minister of Defence, have to stand before you and answer such a question. As three questions have been raised, allow me to respond to them from this remote section in a row. First. People working in the area of the Ministry of Defence are free to express their opinions in the Republic of Estonia, in accordance with the custom of decency and good taste. In particular, it is not acceptable to express an opinion confused with the humiliation of obscenes, insults or of a part of our society. It is certainly not acceptable to label according to nationality or skin colour or orientation. Under no circumstances does the freedom of expression guaranteed by the Constitution give anyone, whether in the Defence Forces or anywhere else, the right to spread hate speech in society. Whether someone is expressing their opinion during or outside the work does not really matter in this context. Defence workers also represent their organisation and, more generally, the Estonian state at any time and in any communication situation. I agree that these inappropriate, insulting or slanderous statements certainly hurt many, including good Estonian citizens, who participate in national defence either as volunteers or as professional servants. Certainly also many defence allies, especially in the region of Ida-Virumaa, but also elsewhere. Such statements damage Estonia's reputation both in its own country and internationally. This is not the image we would like in today's democratic and free society here in Estonia. And all the more important is our unambiguous and clear assessment that such statements have no place in Estonian society. Our allies understand, of course, that these are not the views or attitudes of our national defence organisations, but rather a few deplorable and very unsuccessful acts. I am pleased to confirm from here that Estonia's security and allied relations are based on very strong foundations, which cannot be broken by saying something stupid with a couple of silly or obscene things. Both I and my predecessor, as Minister of Defence, as well as the President and Prime Minister of the Republic, have condemned such statements very clearly, openly and repeatedly, and at least in my case, I can assure you that they are not in any way compatible with our spirit of defence. It has also been said in the past that it is clearly not appropriate for people who have excelled in such statements to work in structural units that are involved in the design of the organisation's good reputation, as is the case with the Public Relations Department. The leaders of the organisations have also drawn their own conclusions from this. In both the Defence Forces and the Defence League, leaders within the organisation have stressed that insulting or hate speech in public space is by no means acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U38	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U39	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good minister! Would you be so kind as to define what hate speech is for us? Do we have that in any of the paragraphs?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U40	I'm not ready to define hate speech from this remote control and head, and I think that in our laws, too, there are more questions about formulating this exact definition.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U41	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! Can you tell me how many non-Estonians are in the Defence League as a percentage? Do you know that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U43	I spoke to the people of the Defence League today on this subject. When I was on a state visit with President Ilves, a German politician asked me how many Russian people we have in the Estonian Riigikogu. I said I don't know, I've never had to think about those categories. And I still don't know how to answer it. I don't think the Defence League thinks about national categories either. What are the grounds for determining human nationality? Is there only language, or is there another identity? I don't know the exact answer to that. I know that there are regions where there are more Russian defence allies than there are elsewhere, in my home Saaremaa there are certainly fewer of them than in the Ida-Viru region, for example, but I am now indebted to the exact number.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U44	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister of Defence! I agree with you that the Defence Forces and the Defence League are 24/7. What I do not understand, however, is what is hate speech and what is not. We don't know how to define it. What for one is radical expression is a relatively gentle thing for another and hate speech for the third. But now my question. Has the Defence Forces and the Defence League developed correct regulations relating to people's duties and determining the rules for using the personal Facebook site? If so, which rules were gentlemen Võrno and Reitelmann specifically wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U46	Thank you. I do not think that these rules were so far clearly in place or defined. However, when I was communicating with the Defence League today, I was also informed that a guide on social media behaviour was being prepared on the basis of which these matters would be put into practice in the future. I was assured that the guide should be completed during this month, i.e. by the end of October. And I understand that for any such statement, the key word is zero tolerance.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U47	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U48	Thank you, Minister. How big is the Public Relations Department of the Defence League and whether people who go through a competition are hired there or are not organised in the Defence League at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U49	In detail, with regard to the size of the department, I owe you an answer. We can provide further details later. The organization's pretty big, and I can't tell you the exact manning of every department or field from this remote control. Procedures are also decided by the Chief of the Defence League. If you wish, we can send you more detailed information about these matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U50	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Defence! You mentioned repeatedly at the beginning that you condemn the spread of hate speech in both the Defence League and the Defence Forces. Surely we all agree with that statement, but we would also like to hear exactly what you mean by hate speech. What exactly does that mean? Where did it happen? How does this manifest itself? What are the dangers? What is your position, whether Estonia should define with certainty what hate speech is, and whether the person who has spoken with hate speech in this context should be subject to sanctions or punishment at the national level?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U52	Thank you for your question. When I think of an expression like "hate speech," I can't give you the exact definition of this remote control. I think that if speech is offensive to people, humiliating on the basis of traits that are often independent of people, if it is on some basis tagging and discriminatory, then all of them could be key words or components of hate speech. On the legislative side, I don't know exactly how to comment, it's the Ministry of Justice's field, and I suppose it's the rightful place of the Chancellor of Justice. As far as I know, this is one subject of discussion on how to define these things and which sanctions, if any, could follow.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U53	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You said for a very long time that you did not think such statements were good and you condemn them. But at the end of the call, I realized that you're still satisfied that Reitelmann is still working for the Defence League. Do you think that's how it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U55	I will respond very clearly to the fact that the human resources issues of the Defence League are to be decided by the Chief of the Defence League. The Chief of the Defence League has made its decision and has also publicly stated its reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U56	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U57	Thank you. Dear Minister, In your opinion, what effect did Reitelmann's flash of thought have on the defence of non-Estonian citizens and, through it, on Estonia's defence capacity as a whole? Do you have any information that Mr. Reitelmann has at least thought about asking for an apology? Does he regret this statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U58	I don't have any information about that last one, I haven't talked to that person myself. I know that the Head of the Defence League, after these statements and their coming out of the public, took the matter of communicating directly with members of the Defence League, whose native language is not Estonian, in order to clarify that this is certainly not the official position of the Defence Union and does not represent the opinion of the organisation as a whole. The broader question is how this can affect our defenses. I hope, of course, that it does not affect our defence capabilities, that all intelligent people understand that such statements are regrettable, but it is still a drop in the sea. I believe that our defence ability is not so weak that it depends on the statements made by one person working in the defence field.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U59	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! Is it even possible to write the entire language of a person with some kind of instructions? Or is it the law of nature that teaches man the spirit and good education? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U61	Surely it will never be possible to write down everything, and I do not know whether that should be our goal. However, I think that the values, views and assessments of certain behaviours must somehow be stated when the need arises, and now we see that there has been. So I am pleased to see that this matter is being dealt with in the organisation and that order or guidance on public, social media communication is being done.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U62	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U63	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I wanted to be more specific about this communication statement. You couldn't define what hate speech was, and you found it to be the Ministry of Justice's domain. Who, how and on what grounds will this Code of Conduct or Code of Conduct of the Defence Forces be drawn up?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U64	I am indebted to the answer on specific compilers and their positions. However, I am pleased that the Chief of the Defence League has ordered this matter to be dealt with and, of course, as the head of the organisation, he is responsible for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U65	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U66	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister! As this is a matter of ethics in particular, I have a desire to expand the subject a little bit and to ask you a personal question about your own ethics. In fact, we read in the press that on Friday night, the Minister of Defence beamed on a ferry in Saaremaa. May I ask you what particular job you performed in Saaremaa on Friday night, the duty of the Minister of Defence?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U67	Thank you for your question. I must point out that this was not a Friday night, but a morning. I had four meetings and an interview in the local media.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U68	According to § 68 (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, a member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask a question. I am sorry, Mr Madis Milling! Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U69	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Do you share the view that people working in the private sector and on taxpayers' payroll can be approached differently? Should there not be a zero tolerance for the person on the taxpayer's payroll and there should not be any exception to such statements?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U70	I understand that the person who caused this debate here no longer works in the field of public relations. As I said, such views and statements, especially in the public media and, in particular, as a representative of the organisation, who must stand up for the reputation of a good organisation, are certainly not acceptable. And the person has been taken to another job.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U71	Thank you, Minister. No more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U72	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I will be honest with you that I am absolutely not disturbed by Urmas Reitelmann's statement personally. I know a normal person doesn't say that, and I rather feel humanely sorry for him. There is nothing pleasant about his activities for Estonians, at least not enough to think about Estonians. Many friends and acquaintances in Estonian have written to me. I congratulate the former Minister for Foreign Affairs Sven Mikser and the Prime Minister and the current Minister for their views on this issue and specifically for condemning it. Both the former Minister of Defence and the Prime Minister said that they felt that Reitelmann's position was not appropriate and that they expected the Defence League to act actively on this issue. However, I did not understand the position of the Defence League's leadership, which is expressed by the fact that an official has been spoken to, but he is still in the Defence League, although in a second position. I don't know exactly what this position is, but as far as I know, he's now performing some kind of faculty function. Does the Defence League really not understand that Reitelmann's activities divide Estonian society, which is not very strong without such things? Is it by chance that two days after Urmas Reitelmann's statement, the Vao Center was set on fire? We don't know that, and we can't find out. It is clear that his actions are a direct threat to the security of the Estonian state, our families, our parents and children. Let me give you an example. A girl I know who is a volunteer member of the Defence League, a Russian who speaks Estonian freely, just sat there crying when she found out about it. That was his reaction. Such statements cancel out all the work that the Estonian state has done for years to ensure that the Estonian Russians are loyal and integrate. I think that when this story reaches the European Commission, our government will also have considerable problems, and it is because of the reaction, not because of the sayings. Ladies and gentlemen, When, in the context of this inquiry, you asked about the definition of hate speech, you certainly meant saying Reitelmann. But ask yourself, please, whether the Estonian Russians consider the expression '300,000 parasitic chicks' to be hate speech or not! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U73	Thank you. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U74	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, as little or as many of us are here again! I feel déjà vu. It's like being back when I was a kid. I remember how people were labeled and classified according to whether they like Soviet power or not. It should not be said that the Soviet power has done this, the second and the third, it was also an hate speech. It should not be said that the Soviet Union is carrying hundreds of thousands of people from other parts of the Soviet Union to Estonia and hundreds of thousands of people from Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Ukraine, Belarus, etc. It was not to be mentioned. It was a friendship between the nations. Now we have come to a situation where a minister comes here who tells us long and hard about hate speech, but does not know how to define hate speech. We have a minister coming before us who says that some kind of statute is being developed. But who works, what can the statute contain, who can be crucified by this statute, or who can be lifted from the cross, he doesn't know. Why doesn't he know? Why doesn't everyone who's been telling us about hate speech really know anything about it? For the simple reason that they deal with any positions at the doctrinal level, that they are correct views and that others are wrong views. I fully understand Martin Repinski when he says that many Russians have been offended by this use of words. You know, I've been a curate and fascist to the Russians since I was a kid. What am I supposed to do now? Is it to say that all the Russians I fought with when I was a kid were hate speakers, and I don't know what kind of criminals? No, it wasn't. It was a little fight for the boys, and God forbid. You can't draw conclusions that you're going to have to deport someone, you're going to have to judge someone, you're going to have to let someone go. Reitelmann's post was not a political statement of any kind. Reitelmann's post was a two-person thing that leaked into the public because of the other half. It wasn't meant for the public. And that's what all the big noise is about. Let's think a little about private talks and wonder if they are meant to cause hatred in society or if they are mistakenly in a situation where they are abused. I want to say to everyone in this hall: people, we're coming to our senses! Let's put an end to this witch-hunting atmosphere! Let's end this horrible witch-hunting atmosphere that has broken out in Estonia and not only in Estonia, but in Europe as a whole. There are only the right positions and wrong positions. Those who are not on our side are against us. This question is a division of society. And responding to this question in the way the Minister replied is also a division of society. It's about creating and deepening confrontation. Let's stop, please, this witch hunt! Because it's a witch hunt. I am now seeing in our society what I thought I had forgotten about how certain people were feared because these people were snitchers. In the case of these people, it was known that their hands were smeared by deportation, that they were KGB informants. I can see the way in which people who are willing to deport, who are willing to write condemning articles, move among us now and in this Chamber. That's terrible! And then we'll be told by the Minister that we're in a democratic society. No, it's not. It's not. By the way, you are contributing to the fact that we are no longer in a democratic society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U75	Thank you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U76	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, It's still right to say that the smaller the problem, the more people talk about it. Unfortunately, that is the case. One thing comes after another. Firstly, the subject of our esteemed Minister for Defence. I don't care if he can explain one term or another, whether he knows what hate speech is or he doesn't. I'm more interested in him getting the Kalashnikov machine open in nine seconds and meeting in 18 seconds, which I think was the standard. Does he share anything about how military operations are planned? Does he know what our Defence Forces need? So I think the word on terms was kind of out of the question. Now the same public relations specialist, Mr. Urmas Reitelmann. What are public relations, such are specialists. If public relations are such that we see an enemy in every person and suspect that one becomes a spy, the other becomes an executioner, etc., I wonder where we end up with these concepts. I was absolutely not moved by what Reitelmann said for one simple reason. I just happened to find out about it. The thing is, I don't read the comments. Perhaps you remember, years ago, the submarine Kursk died. There was this thing, a lot of young boys were killed. It was the day I last read Internet comments. I haven't done it in eight to nine years. I don't see the need. An anonymous comment on the Internet is the same as the uncensored word on the wall, it's absolute irresponsibility, it's our moral paralysis. If a person leaves such comments, even if his name is mentioned there, what is the point of making a big story about it? I fear this is not the last time we heard the word 'tibla', but this was the first time that all non-Estonians living in Estonia were named. And you know what's most interesting? My colleague Mart reminded me of his childhood. I also recall my childhood, the first ten years in Tartu and the next years in Tallinn. There was constant communication with both Russians and Estonians in the streets and clubs. For the first time, I read that word in the 'tibla' newspaper, I think. In 1993, I worked at the language centre and had to ask my Estonian colleagues what the word meant. So to remind you of childhood, yes, we played Indians, we went to different gangs, but there were no relationships like the ones between people now. And we have no one to blame. As I understand it, this Reitelmann should be a young person. No? It seems to me that the last 25 years, where anger has been instigated, and yet, on the one hand, not on both sides, he has been raised to be exactly the kind of person he is now. What I personally do is absolutely no tragedy. There is Mikhail Zhvanetski, a famous Russian writer from Odessa, who said, "If you don't like the smell, what are you smelling? Get away from me! ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U77	Thank you. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sincerely pleased to agree with Mr Stalnukhin and to repeat that the smaller the problem, the more it will be dealt with. We have spent the working hours of the Riigikogu on a relatively pointless case. Urmas Reitelmann slipped, he forgot that an official of the Defence League was 24/7, and on Facebook, not even as a public post, but as an idea of communication. Agree that this was politically incorrect. However, if we cannot define hate speech, if we cannot define what is politically incorrect and what is not, because these are all cognitive things now, then his conviction is also a cognitive question. I am not ashamed, and I dare say that Mr Reitelmann was the so-called model store. And it's kind of a shame. Once again, it was a private conversation between two people. We have all spoken in the sauna of anecdotes, which of Estonians, who of Russians, who of Jews. If the third hears about our sauna conversation and reports it to the public, then I could also be defined as an antisemite and Nazi when I speak of a nice Jewish anecdote. Where's the line between privacy and public statement? It's a gray zone. Similarly, there are Facebook communication rules in the grey zone, as we have heard from the Minister's speech. And as long as the Code of Conduct for Defence League and Defence Forces officials and officers does not have specific rules that limit communication on Facebook and other public social media, it is relatively difficult to condemn them. It's a cognitive question, it's a question of ethics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U79	Thank you. There's no more calls. Would the Secretary of Defense like to speak? No, I don't. We have passed the second item and the question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U80	Let's move on to the third item. Members of the Riigikogu Jaanus Karilaid, Mailis Reps, Toomas Vitsut, Mikhail Korb, Viktor Vassilyev, Erki Savisaar, Rein Ratas, Tarmo Tamm, Enn Eesmaa, Lauri Laasi, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Kersti Sarapuu and Märt Sults have submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Defence concerning the direction and support of the national defence industry. In the name of the heirs, please speak to Lauri Laas.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U81	Honourable Riigikogu! Let me introduce a few words of inquiry before the Minister starts answering questions. In developed countries, the state orders the defence industry, on the one hand, to equip the defence forces with the necessary equipment and, on the other hand, to direct the industry to develop solutions to ensure better protection of the state. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces do not provide such input in Estonia. This has led to a situation where the defence industry here has no vision and mission to increase the defence capabilities of the Estonian state. Although measures have been put in place in Estonia to support the development of the defence industry, it can be seen that the decline has begun. If three or four companies have received financial support from the state in previous years in a competition for defence projects, only one company received it this time. According to Deputy Secretary-General Nele Loorents of the Ministry of Defence's Defence Investments, the grant lat has shifted over the years, which has led to this situation. At the same time, it is precisely the guidelines that the State expects the company to comply with. This is a vivid example where the Ministry of Defence does not understand its role in the development of a sustainable national defence industry. This attitude also shows the Ministry's excessive separation from other economies. For example, Israel, with a population of 8.3 million, exported domestic defence goods for USD 7 billion in 2012. Given the number of Estonian residents, the local defence industry would allow us to develop and export defence products worth at least EUR 1 billion. With regard to the above, we have three questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U82	Thank you. Please respond to the inquiry, Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U83	Respectables! To begin with, I would like to thank you for the letter you sent. Development of the defence industry is certainly a very important issue for the Ministry of Defence. The fact that the Riigikogu is interested in this subject is only commendable. I can also confirm that our ministry's working arrangements are of increasing importance for the defence industry. The capacity of Estonia's independent defence industry is growing rapidly, and every year we see the birth and growth of competitive and internationally breakthrough companies that can export their products. The development of the defence industry is not a fast, short-term process. On the contrary, it is a long-term process that requires thoughtful action and effort. Our situation is also specific in some respects, because there is no historic defence industry, at least not large-scale. The Estonian internal market, when we talk about what our own Defence Forces could consume, is exceptionally small. Logically speaking, it places a strategic focus on increasing export capacity, as it is the only way to achieve higher levels in the long term and sustainable value creation chain. Estonia's defence industry policy for 2013 is also focused on export capacity as its main objective. One important measure taken by the Ministry of Defence for the development of the Estonian defence industry, as the inquisitor has already mentioned, has been the competition for development grants. Its aim is precisely to develop innovative products with export potential in the defence and security sector. The competition has now been organised for three years and I believe that this is far too short a time to draw conclusions on the final results, but I can assure you that there are already some good examples. I would like to highlight here the English abbreviation unmanned ground vehicle, the unattended land vehicle, the exact Estonian equivalent, the innovative plastic bomb shelter, the multi-rotor UAV, the mobile trauma centre and the automatic pilot of unmanned aircraft. In addition, it can be stated with certainty that several new defence companies have emerged with the help of the same competition. I can confirm that the development aid measure will also be implemented in the next year, 2016. We are actively working with the Estonian Defence Industry Association and research institutions to make the competition even more attractive. Let me give you a few words about this competition. The budget is around EUR 250000 per year. In 2013 and 2014 12 applications were submitted, four or five of them received funding. Nearly half the number of applications came this year and one was funded. The reason why fewer applications were submitted is probably that the measure has not been attractive enough for businesses, as the amount of the aid is quite small. This is precisely the case that our Ministry supports 20 to 45% of the cost of the project, and the rest must come from the company itself. On the other hand, it is very easy to justify, indeed, because it makes companies take their participation in projects seriously. I also think that bureaucracy is too high on this issue, especially in view of these amounts. The Board of Development Grants, which assessed the projects, noted that the biggest bottleneck for the applications was a weak link to the needs of the Defence Forces as well as a justification of export potential. In short, there was no brilliant idea. We are now trying to make this measure more attractive. As in any other sector of the economy, development in the defence industry still depends on businesses and the wider business environment. I suggest that cooperation with the Estonian Defence Industry Association, which is a strategic partner of the Ministry of Defence, has a key role to play here. There are already a hundred companies in the Union, including some foreign partner companies. However, in our view, a comprehensive and sustainable defence industry can only be based on fulfilling the conditions of the free market. When we talk about the development vision, the Estonian defence industry must be an industry with international reach, high value creation and clearly defined competitive advantages. When a comparison was made here with another country, Israel, I must admit that such a causal link between the population and the exports of the defence industry is very difficult to find. Countries are very different, with a larger IT sector, where the share of the financial sector, where more forest is cut. I do not know if we follow this logic, we could calculate that Nigeria's arms exports, for example, should be higher than the United States'. That is certainly not the case. Israel's defence industry and exports are at a very good level, but certainly they cannot be attributed to the population, but have very many other reasons. With regard to coalition partners' agreements on this issue, the Coalition Agreement clearly states that it supports the development of the national defence industry, including access to export markets for the defence industry. The aim is also to promote defence-related research and development by supporting the greater involvement of Estonian small and medium-sized enterprises in European defence industry projects, as well as the participation of our universities in international security and defence research. The coalition's competence is at a level that allows it to develop as planned. That's all I'd like to do right now. I'd be happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U84	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have listed here the outstanding achievements of Estonian defence industry companies, such as unmanned aircraft, the same UGV or unmanned land platform vehicle, bomb shelter, mobile trauma centre, etc. It's all great. Unfortunately, in the process of acquiring all these beautiful things, there is a large concrete fence with the letter 'Public Procurement' on it. And one day we'll be back in a state where we'll discover that both the unmanned aircraft and the mobile trauma center have been purchased from abroad. Could it be discussed at all that in future, for example, some strategically important elements will be acquired, goods without public procurement, with the aim of supporting the Estonian defence industry as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U86	Thank you for your question. Our general philosophy in this country is still built on the fact that we operate under free market conditions and want every euro or cent we spend to produce a maximum effect, a good result. Our actions are also very clearly defined by the directives of the European Union. So I do not believe that we can now create a situation where we are going to make targeted procurements or some sort of purely industry-oriented offers. I think that competition on these issues is certainly healing. If our local companies are competitive, they will of course also know our system, the Defence Forces and its needs better. This gives them an advantage in some respects, and when we talk about procurement and notices, they are also in Estonian. This should give our companies, if they are competitive, a certain advantage.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U87	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I will continue with the previous question of whether our defence industry production has also found its way to the market of another country. Has any of the tenders been taken up and the procurement won?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U89	I mention some areas of our defence industry that are not only active here, they have certain export potential and direction. One area is certainly cyber defence. Guardtime, Cybernetica, BHC, ByteLife, Border Guard sensor technologies, Defendec, Armoured Machine Maintenance and Development, Milrem (we have recently seen the first prototype in London at a defence industry fair), unmanned flight systems produced by Eli and Threos. Clothes, boots, for example, are from GalviLinda and Samelin. There are also new players, such as Terramil, which produces plastic bomb shelters and side mines. They're all actively looking for export markets. As far as defence industry employees and total turnover, exports, development costs and other reliable statistics are concerned, we do not yet have that. I understand the Defence Industries Association is putting it together with Statistics. I can say that there are about 20 companies operating on international markets. This has been achieved over the last five years and has essentially started from scratch. So the trend is very clearly positive, especially in terms of exports. The mapping of data in this sector is one of the main tasks of the Defence Industries Union and it will enable us to assess the development of the sector in the future as well as set targets for future periods.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U90	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U91	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! We all know that Estonia and the other Baltic countries are in a very vulnerable geopolitical position, which means that all the things you have listed are undoubtedly welcome and excellent innovations. True, the experience of the Ukrainian war shows that the Russians often reprogrammed these same unmanned aerial vehicles during the flight, rerouted back to where they had originally ascended, and then set off where they were not supposed to explode. So there's a risk to these things. But here's the question. We cannot, of course, talk about some free market economy, even though we are very fond of talking about it. We are still talking to a large extent about the economy of the Euro Directives. As far as defence is concerned, it is often important to think not so much about how something pays itself, but about how much it guarantees our security. In other words, I would like to ask whether the Ministry of Defence is taking urgent steps in the current international situation so that we are able on the ground to supply ourselves with the most basic combat equipment, bullets, missiles, mines and such, and should not be entirely dependent on the strategic stock being imported.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U92	Thank you for your question. The question is very right; we need to deal every day with our defence forces being equipped and equipped with the most modern technology possible. That is why I am very pleased that we are going to have profound changes concerning the force of fire and the introduction of up-to-date technology. As early as this year, the first third generation anti-tank systems, Javelin, are beginning to reach us, which we are obtaining from the United States for very considerable sums. Our own contribution is EUR 40 million, to which the United States will, for its part, add about 30 million in aid. From Holland, we'll get infantry combat vehicles, a whole new quality in our firepower. This procurement, too, costs a great deal, EUR 120 million. If we talk more about supplies and other equipment, support, all that is needed, there will be almost EUR 200 million in total. All of this will lead to the technologically very high level of our Defence Forces. If we were to start making up all these things at home and doing, getting them from home, then we could, I'm afraid, wait decades before we get to that level. And the resource we are spending would not pay off in the context of the Estonian market. So we are going through a groundbreaking period of firepower, and as Minister of Defence, it is good to see that every euro is covered by defence plans and concrete actions. We have a long-term development plan for the Defence Forces for the years 2013 to 2022 on which we work, and we will review it every four years as necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U93	Thank you. I ask the questioner to fit his question in one minute, so as manager, I don't have to interrupt him. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U94	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, During the times, very many initiatives have been taken in Estonia. We have a lot of innovative people. While mortars have been designed, test specimens have been made, etc., there are many of these things, but only a few of them are used in our Defence Forces. Unfortunately, there are no weapons at all. At the same time, if you look at the basic cost of equipment and material, it takes tens of thousands a week, for example, of blanks. Why can't the state take up and restore the Arsenal type of defence plant and start producing the necessary things, because this market and the need will not end?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U95	Thank you for your question. I think that there is still one clear thing behind all this procurement and free market logic: the free market receives things that are produced competitively, which are of high quality. This is a general philosophy at national level, and I do not see that the state should start investing separately here. If we start investing publicly in our defence industry, the same shells, mines, grenades and other ammunition will simply be left unsold. However, we need things in accordance with the development plan now and now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U96	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U97	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Secretary of Defense! It was a pleasure to hear that every euro is covered by protection plans. Quite recently, however, the Auditor General was here, who spoke about how no candy money could be found, EUR 200000 to audit how wisely all the money used to purchase and acquire weapons has been used. Do you think this is a wise step by the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U98	Thank you for your question. I've never heard of no money for auditing. I think our country has normal control functions, but I really need to clarify this particular case. I can't answer that question right now. In my opinion, it makes sense that when we make procurements, when we spend and invest, these things must also be as well controlled and counted as possible, so that we know exactly what we are getting out of our money.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U99	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Good Secretary of Defense! I have no doubt that Estonia has certainly made very good investments in the light of its defence strategy. I'm just wondering how much time as a fresh minister you've come to familiarize yourself with the situation of the Defence League. I know quite well what the situation is in Tallinn's chess, where there is a huge shortage of simple equipment, even in pants, frenchishes and boots. The situation is quite difficult at the moment, the simple equipment is scraped all over Estonia from chess to chess, because the flood of joiners is great. Eighty new recruits who have started SBK, or soldier's base course, are not getting any standard equipment on their backs. Have you been able to familiarize yourself with this situation, and how are we going to alleviate the lack of equipment? Should additional resources be found for the Defence League, including the Tallinn Chess? What is your position here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U101	Thank you. The question is well-founded. This is not just about the Defence League. Equipment, equipment quality, equipment levels must improve throughout the defence sector, certainly also within the Defence League. Under the Coalition Agreement, we spend 2% of our gross domestic product on national defence, plus the costs of accepting allies. The defence budget will increase by 9% next year, with EUR 37 million in real money. This is reflected in the budget of both the Defence Forces and the Defence League. So if there are shortcomings in the equipment, it should be quite elementary that a larger budget allows the acquisition of equipment that is of today's standard and meets all the requirements.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U102	Thank you. Minister, there are no further questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There are no negotiating requests. The third question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U103	Let's move on to the agenda. The fourth item is the inquiry to the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu. Members of the Riigikogu Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Märt Sults, Rein Ratas and Martin Repinski have submitted an inquiry into the organisation of the judicial system. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U104	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! It should be said that there was a debate on this issue in one of the auditoriums, which consisted mainly of lawyers, and no one seemed to be able to answer. When presenting the question, the text of the inquiry is usually read here and the Minister is asked to read the questions before answering, but in this case it is much easier to understand the problem than to start with the questions. As is well known in the Constitution, an institution is defined as a city court, while such an institution is lacking in the Courts Act. We're asking you to explain what this is about. We have a legitimate interest in whether the Estonian Constitution contains provisions that are not mandatory. And the third and final question. The Constitution has a city court, and the Courts Act does not contain it as an institution. Can it be concluded from this that it is possible to ignore other constitutional provisions if you wish? Five members of the Riigikogu have signed the inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U105	Thank you. Please respond to the inquiry by Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U106	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs! This is a serious issue, and giving an answer to it requires a more thorough examination of the theory of interpretation of the Constitution, which I would do with the kindly permission of the heirs. It is possible to interpret the Constitution grammatically, systematicly, logically, historically and also lens-teleologically. You can ask questions about law about language, logic, systematics, history and functionality, or teleology. The latter permit the formation of positions which give an answer to the original objective of the rule of law, namely the actual will of the legislator, in this case the Constitutional legislator. These interpretation methods carry the idea of unity between the Constitution and the legal system and help to avoid conflicts between different parts of the Constitution. The specific question now mentioned is that § 148 of the Constitution defines the judicial system as consisting of county and city courts and administrative courts, circuit courts and Supreme Courts. According to the Constitution, county and city courts and administrative courts are courts of first instance, circuit courts are courts of second instance and the Supreme Court of Cassation and Constitutional Review Court is the Supreme Court. As early as 1 January 2006, amendments to the Courts Act entered into force, which reorganized the judicial authorities and as a result no longer have separate city courts in Estonia. However, a separate structure has been set up within the land and administrative courts, which is the courthouse. The location and service areas of the courts of land and administrative courts shall be determined by the Minister of Justice. On the basis of this regulation, it is clear that the courts are also located in the former city courts and therefore the reform of the reorganisation of the judicial authorities has not deviated from the objective of ensuring justice in all areas of Estonia, regardless of the name of the judicial authority. It must also be said that this reform, which entered into force since 2006, brought together 16 existing county and city courts and four administrative courts. Four land courts and two administrative courts remained. Its aim was to harmonise justice as a service across our country, improve the quality of justice, improve the efficiency of the procedure and make more efficient use of administrative costs. As I understand it, the problem for which this reform was carried out was that before 2006, the workload was very different. There was fragmentation in the court organisation at the first level of justice. We can now say that there are 66 judges in Harju County Court, Pärnu 21, Tartu 35 and Virus 28 are comparable in size and workload. In addition, the reform had a plus that, in the judicial organisation where the courts were consolidated, judges can now specialise in narrower areas such as insolvency, intellectual property, juvenile delinquency and public procurement. This was not previously possible in the courts of smaller courts. It is also very important that if there are more judges in one court, it is possible to avoid the accidental sharing of matters. If there were 16 courts before 2006, it was more difficult to avoid this random moment, given the smaller distance between the judges and the persons who brought the case. It has to be recognised that the procedure has become more effective and that the duration of the procedure has been shorter. In the past, the average duration of civil proceedings at Ida-Viru County Court was 284 days in 2004, 381 days in Narva City Court and 101 days in Lääne-Viru County Court. These courts now form the Viru County Court, where the average duration of civil proceedings is 127 days. In short, the Constitution must first be interpreted in a purposeful way and, in accordance with this objective, there are three levels of justice in Estonia. If the aim is to ensure that all Estonian people have access to justice at the first level of justice, then a purposeful interpretation can be said to have no conflict with the Constitution. Only using grammatical interpretation can you really say that you see that city courts no longer exist. However, it must be acknowledged that if the grammatical interpretation is taken as a matter of itself, it can be absurd. One might also think, for example, that if the Constitution mentions a city court, each city, as a municipality, must have its own duty. In reality, of course, this was not the case even before the 2006 reform, when we had 16 courts. Secondly, the questioners asked whether the Constitution still contained provisions that were not mandatory. I say no, the Constitution does not contain such provisions. However, it must be acknowledged that the meaning of the norms changes over time through the interpretation of the Constitution. The living constitutional interpreter is the Supreme Court with its practice. The Constitution is also interpreted by the legislator, by giving laws on the basis of the Constitution. And we can see that the Constitution has indeed slipped far beyond grammatical interpretation in many places. Let me refer, for example, to the list of laws to be adopted in the Riigikogu by a majority of its members, which says that the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act and the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act must be adopted by an absolute majority. As we know, we now have one law instead of them, in the interests of rationality the legislator decided so. The requirement of purpose has been met; Parliament shall, by a majority of its component Members, lay down rules concerning Parliament's work and independent autonomy. Similarly, the remuneration of the President of the Republic and members of the Riigikogu is by law. We do not have such a law. There is a law on the remuneration of senior civil servants, which regulates a much wider area. Or, for example, the Peace Age National Defence Act and the War Age National Defence Act, which are also consolidated in a single text of the Act. So, above all, the Constitution needs to be viewed from the point of view of the objective, to understand what the Constitutional legislator has asked for by different norms. This standard has undoubtedly been met before and after the 2006 reform of the judiciary. In my opinion, looking at the results of this reform, the aim of the Constitution for justice to take place at three levels and to be accessible to people is even better guaranteed. The third question raised by the respondents was whether ignoring the provisions of the Constitution, for example in the case of the City Court, means that it is possible to ignore other provisions of the Constitution if they so wish. No, it doesn't. Once again, I believe that there has been no breach of the constitutional rule in this regard if we look at the purpose of the norm. The grammatical interpretation cannot be used as a primary basis for these standards, of course it would be a formal inconsistency with the Constitution only in grammatical terms. Of course, constitutional review controls are subject to all the rules, including this law, which has been in force for nine years. It is right to ask what happens when the grammatical interpretation and purposeful interpretation of the Constitution begin to move away over time in such a way that, figuratively speaking, there is a situation where grammatical wording no longer makes it possible to understand how they are interpreted according to purpose. It is quite possible that at some point there will be a situation in which society raises the question of whether it would be reasonable, in the interests of the constitutional comprehension, to review the Constitution with that view in order not to change political preferences, but to try to unite the purposeful and grammatical interpretation. In that case, a constitutional review will be considered. We must certainly recognise that, for example, in external relations, defence and public finances, accession to the European Union and NATO has changed the content of some of the provisions compared to what the constitutional author, Mr Jüri Adams, set out in 1992 as a basis for the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U107	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U108	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The answer was quite logical and convincing. However, the Constitution is still a constitution and I would like every word of it to correspond to the actual situation. Here's the question. It happens quite rarely, but sometimes we change one thing, once in a while. I think the last time was to give 16-year-olds the right to vote. If the Constitution is already being amended, why should it not be included as a package in the amendments that are life-related, just as this matter of city courts or all the amendments to the laws that you have mentioned? Who would want to initiate it and do it with some other fundamental and important correction?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U109	Thank you. In different countries, the culture of constitutional change varies. In Germany, for example, as far as I know, the Constitution has been amended nearly 70 times in order to clarify or develop standards. Some countries are very conservative, based on their original text and trying to develop the constitutional culture in this way through its purposeful interpretation. Estonia has chosen a conservative path, which means that the Constitution and its stability have been dealt with rather than value in itself and in situations where interpretation can overcome the conflict between grammatical interpretation and purposeful interpretation, changes to the formal text of the Constitution have been avoided. Of course, one can argue both for and against such a position. I think that in a society where the Constitution is so young, we have had it in force for a quarter of a hundred years, conservativeness or stability has certainly been a virtue. If we now ask that if Parliament had at that time initiated the amendment of the Constitution, whether it would have somehow been deplorable or problematic, then certainly not. Then simply the purpose of the norm and the literal text, as stated in the Law of the Courts, in the Law of Judicial Orders, would have coincided with each other. The President and the fifth of the Riigikogu have the power to initiate amendments to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U110	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of Justice! As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I was surprised to hear that the Constitution should not be taken literally. How many grammatical or verbal things do we have in our current constitution that are not to be taken seriously? Which sections have the highest number?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U112	Thank you. I didn't say the constitution shouldn't be taken literally. I said that the Constitution must be interpreted purposefully above all, and I think that, in the case of a constitution which is essentially a conservative act, a framework law, a purposeful interpretation is a central interpretation method. If you ask which of the constitutional norms has the grammatical and purposeful interpretations developed over this 25 years or changed by nature, I believe that this has most happened in the area of finance and budget in terms of the fact that we are members of the European Monetary Union. With regard to our membership of NATO and the European Union, this certainly also concerns external relations and national defence. I have already referred to laws whose name has changed. I think this is the most important block. I recall how we joined the European Union. We did not start making a total revision of the Constitution or writing a new text in connection with the fact that we became a member of the European Union, but we were based on the fact that the Constitution is interpreted with such a restriction or clause that Estonia's membership of the European Union must be in line with the fundamental principles of our constitution. Membership in the European Union was limited in the then referendum by the fact that membership must not conflict with the fundamental principles of our constitution. But this topic is such a place of serious academic constitutional debate. From time to time, the question has been raised that the text of the Constitution and the purposeful interpretation should be brought into line and discussed whether we need to rewrite the Constitution or revise it. Lawyers, as well as politicians, have come up with this idea from time to time. I tend to be more conservative in the area of constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U113	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U114	Thank you, Minister. You mentioned that 16 land and city courts were merged for ten years. If you talk about how much time it will take for the court, be it the courts of Ida-Virumaa, Tartu or Pärnu, to examine the matter, where do you think the judicial system and the work of the courts will go in the next ten years?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U115	Thank you. The question is that the place where justice is held, where judges are physically, is the courthouse. Let's say one level is about internal administration of the court. For people who go to court, it's less important, but justice takes place in courthouses. The whole Viru region, Ida-Viru and Lääne-Viru have three meeting houses. What is the development of justice in general? I believe that, from the point of view of the functioning of society, the functioning of civil relations and the better functioning of penal law, the economy and speed of procedures are certainly important, without any deterioration in quality. On this point, progress has been made and I think that work must continue in this direction. The very serious issue put on the table by the President of the Supreme Court and now analysed by the Ministry of Justice is once again whether the interpretation of the Constitution is central to purposeful interpretation or whether grammatical interpretation must be used. This is a question, for example, of whether in certain cases it would be more rational not to practice three-step court proceedings, but to use two-step proceedings. There are certainly pros and cons on this subject, but I think they will also be discussed. The absolute principle of the three-step principle that we have in our trial today is not universal at all. In other European countries, too, it is the speed of justice that has an important value, i.e. in addition to a fair trial, it is also right to assume that the trial will be conducted within a reasonable period of time, that society has been able to establish its legal relations once and for all. The judicial system, however, is certainly a conservative area; here, sluggish solutions are not an end in themselves. I think it is in the interests of justice to ensure that justice is stable. Access to legal aid is a serious issue, both in court proceedings and in primary legal aid, and the Ministry of Justice plans to make changes in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U116	Thank you, Minister. No more questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U117	Thank you, Mr President. How much time do I have under the rules?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U118	Five plus three minutes, tops.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U119	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since the subject of this inquiry is something I've encountered a few times in my life, I have something to say about it. First of all, the names of the courts in the Constitution. Indeed, the Constitution mentions three types of court and three levels of court. The question at the Constitutional Assembly was, in fact, whether there should not be many more courts in Estonia. First of all, according to the pre-war tradition, we had separate military courts, and they also existed in the Soviet Union. The debate at the Constitutional Assembly was about whether we should have separate military courts. The Assembly voted and decided that no, including military offences, would be discussed in general courts. The second question concerned the various specialised courts that exist in the major European countries, such as youth courts in Germany and jobs in several other countries. The assembly developed a fundamental understanding that the types of courts are being kept to a minimum and, if special courts are needed, they are created by law. In fact, we do not have these legal provisions, but there are all kinds of pre-trial arbitrations that will enable disputes to be settled more quickly and the burden on the courts to be reduced. Life has evolved so that one form of court of its own time has proved unnecessary, but who knew how to predict it at the time. But as the heirs point out, this is not the only place in the Constitution where life has gone differently and something has gotten in the way of time, it is no longer necessary. For example, we probably have the most serious problems in the Eesti Pank chapter. And now the question of how to proceed with these things. There was also a question of how many constitutions are being amended. The very short constitution of the United States has been amended approximately once every 15 to 20 years, while Germany's relatively long constitution is amended once or twice a year. We have an intermediate option, we have had one amendment of the constitution every three or four years. In general, there is direct dependence here: the longer the constitution, the more often it needs to be changed, and vice versa. I had the opportunity to propose to the previous Minister for Justice that a separate piece of work be launched. I thought that there could be a committee of specialists with the minister, for example, whose task, at the request of the minister, would be to evaluate and initiate the proposed constitutional changes themselves. In my opinion, the problem is, in fact, that these changes, some of which are politically interested in the Riigikogu, are being formulated, are being brought into this Chamber and some of them will become constitutional changes. Such constitutional changes, however, which are not of electoral interest and which no one is dealing with, will build up over time. My idea was to come up with some form to get this job started somehow. Otherwise, this list will be extended, extended, extended and justified in terms of the fact that there is something in the Constitution that is actually lost in life. What, then, has happened to the state's legal order, has there been some kind of crime or is it malicious? There is probably no maliciousness behind this, but from time to time, the Constitution should be cleansed of outdated sentences or parts of sentences. It could be one of the relatively regular and routine work of the Ministry of Justice or someone else in the future when the time comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U120	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiation. Does the Minister have a wish to speak? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U121	Thank you, Mr Adams, for this proposal. I can say that in 1998, the government formed a committee that also handed over the result of its work to the Constitutional Committee of the House at the time. It was such an expert report, free of day-to-day political sentiment, which was designed to harmonise the textual and purposeful interpretation. There were two catalogs distributed by my memory of nearly a hundred proposals. For various reasons, Parliament did not want to deal with this in the coming years. Given that eight years had passed since the adoption of the Constitution, it was also probably feared that it could open up some boxes for a substantive change of state. I think that now that we are talking about one generation after the entry into force of the Constitution, it is certainly time to think about such a constitutional assessment. I take this proposal seriously. I have set up a legislative council at the Ministry of Justice, chaired by Mr Jüri Raidla, and I also ask them to shape their position on this initiative. I believe that it is very important to look at this initiative as a purely constitutional initiative, not a political initiative, in order to fundamentally alter the constitutional balance of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U122	Thank you. The fourth question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U123	Let's move on, fifth item. The inquiry has also been submitted to the Minister of Justice; it is an inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Andrei Novikov, Mailis Repsi, Mikhail Korbi, Siret Kotka, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta, Priit Toobali, Erki Savisaare, Martin Repinski, Olga Ivanova, Rein Ratas, Tarmo Tamme, Enn Eesmaa, Lauri Laasi, Valeri Korbi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Kersti Sarapuu and Märt Sults concerning the effects of the reduction of the selection. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U124	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister and ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu! From the moment the inquiry was handed over, a lot of water has flowed into the sea, so the minister can perhaps refer to a slightly changed situation in response to some questions. I will, however, introduce the content of the questioning; in the round of questions and answers, we can certainly extend the debate as well. In particular, § 156 (2) of the amended Constitution created a new situation for us: when local government councils were elected, young people aged 16 and 17 were also brought to the ballot boxes. There are about 24,000 young people in this age group. Assuming that some 60% of people in this age group could choose, perhaps some think that this is a slightly optimistic estimate, 14000 to 15,000 young people can be expected to join the ballot boxes. This has led to a discussion in society, which has now been the result of a debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The legal question arose that if, in the case of so-called ordinary voters, the law regulates voting in the case of restricted capacity, no such distinction has been made between the under 18-year-olds. Prior to the adoption of the law, the Ministry of Justice had prepared an analysis which concluded that there was no need to amend other legislation. As you remember, the debate was that if the 16- to 17-year-olds were given the right to vote, others could also review the rights of this age group. On June 10, we were discussing problems related to the limited capacity of these young people, their insanity, mental illness, or any other mental disorder. As we know, this debate also reached the Committee on Constitutional Affairs during the autumn season, which discussed the need for appropriate legislative changes. As a result, we have questions that the Minister can answer, which have already been discussed and which have been decided. Are there any plans to extend the other rights of 16 and 17 years of age and are there any problems that were not sufficiently analysed at the time when the selection decision was taken? This is the debate we've brought to this hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U125	Thank you. Please respond to the inquiry by Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U126	Honourable heirs! Five questions have been asked. I'll answer them in a row. I'm not reading them, I'm trying to formulate a general position. The question is whether it is possible to restrict the capacity of persons in the sense of the right to vote. Yes, it is possible to limit it, even for young people aged 16 and 17. The text of the Constitution provides for the possibility of establishing the right to vote with a certain reservation. There is no separate procedure in the current law in order to decide on the capacity of a person in the sense of the right to vote, as in the case of adults, it takes place in the process of determining the guardian. This procedure cannot be extended to minors by supplementing the Code of Civil Procedure. When we gave our opinion on the general framework law, the local government council election law, which will apply to young people from the next local elections, the Ministry of Justice proposed to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that such a separate procedure be drawn up. To this end, we consider it necessary to change the principles of the law in force and to enable the General Courts to assess whether a mental illness of 16 and 17 years of age, insanity or any other mental disorder is such as to prevent them from continuing to understand the meaning of voting in elections. This certainly means an increase in the procedural burden in court proceedings. To this end, similar expertise must be carried out, as is currently the case in the procedure for assigning guardians to an adult. Appropriate procedural guarantees must also be provided to minors. The officials of the Ministry of Justice have cooperated with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and we are ready to help make these technical amendments to the law. But, as I said, our general understanding is that young people must be subject to an essentially analogous procedure, as is the adult capacity assessment procedure. Who should initiate this procedure as a public interest representative? This right should certainly be exercised by local authorities. And, of course, according to the general court logic, it should be possible to initiate this procedure by the person himself..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... How big is this possible target group? In order to respond to this, there is a need to further assess these effects. I am not going to speculate here on the proportion of young people in the population who do not understand the meaning of their activities on a lasting basis. I guess that coincides with the proportion of adults in the population. I would like to point out that, if it is also regulated for minors, if the procedure will be the same as for adults, there will be no age discrimination. And now one broader question, which has come up in connection with the reduction of the election age. In particular, should other rights be extended to minors, persons under 18 years of age. What is the position of the Ministry of Justice? My position is conservative. I don't plan on doing any of these initiatives. I am referring here to one difference compared to the other rights that are still open to a person at full age, especially in the exercise of civil rights. These other rights generally also relate to some of the obligations which a person bears. Now for the exercise of the right to vote. We can speak from a constitutional and philosophical point of view that this also means responsibility and responsibility, but in reality there will be no civil liability for individual persons. It is therefore an intrinsic distinction. That is the general approach, we do not intend to extend the general capacity of minors. How is this initiative now realised in society? The idealistic aim of this initiative is to increase the participation of young people. This will allow young people to become better involved in the organisation of social life and will allow Estonia to overcome a certain demographic divide that has inevitably started to emerge as a result of the general ageing of society. But I certainly want to warn you that there are also certain risks here that need to be mitigated in particular by raising the level of civic education. I think that, following the entry into force of this amendment to the Constitution, it is certainly important how politicians present their activities in educational institutions. Here, in my opinion, some good practice rules should be established. It would be very bad if this activity were to acquire the character of brainwashing in schools. I believe that, as we have the rules of good practice in e-voting, first and foremost, on the initiative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, basic rules could also be set out on how to carry out electoral propaganda aimed at young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U127	Thank you. You have questions too. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U128	Thank you. First of all, thank you very much for your answers. Indeed, as most of us know in this Chamber, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has analysed these possibilities on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice. But I guess the system just has to work out. In reality, however, there are people whose capacity is limited either way. Now we've given them a little capacity on the one hand, but we'll limit it right now. Consequently, I have a question. When we look at our education system, we can see that the line has been very jealously maintained so that less than 18-year-olds are generally not diagnosed with any more severe diagnosis. Now, if the court's request is systematically recognised by persons under 18 years of age, could this have any consequences in the education system, where there are broader diagnoses for 16 and 17 years of age?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U129	Thank you. This is certainly an important point to consider. We must bear in mind whether making such a decision will mean a young person as a sign of a stigma. This risk, I hope, is what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs means. However, this is not a formal legal exercise, but, above all, a social policy theme. It is important that this disease or disability, which the court must confirm, is permanent: the persistent inability to understand the meaning of voting in elections. Of course, the court cannot make this a discretionary decision. It must be based on an expert analysis, a medical diagnosis. We must also take into account how such a procedure will take place. This must not lead to excessive suffering for these young people and their loved ones. This human facet, I hope, is also what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs means.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U130	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U131	Thank you. Mr. Minister for Justice. We gave young people the right to vote in the choice of local government. Is the next step also the election of the Riigikogu, or is it excluded?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U132	Thank you. Not excluded. If I ask myself if I think it makes sense, then no, I am quite conservative on these initiatives. But it is true that the meaning of active electoral rights has changed throughout history. There was also a time when in the territory of Estonia you could choose, if I am not mistaken, from male homeowners and real estate owners over 25 years of age. Such times have been so. Today we smile, imagining censorships on this basis in our society. I believe that the meaning of this amendment must not be overdimensioned. Its logic was clear, as I understood from the initiative of the initiators of the draft, namely to give more say to young people on the issues of local life, so that politicians could also be motivated to deal with their interests. As I said, there is a risk of political propaganda for young people in educational establishments. I think it is responsible to take this risk into account, but above all, it is a matter of political culture. You asked whether, in the exercise of state authority, the aim should be to reduce the age of choice. Once again, I would say that this would require a very heavy argument, which I cannot put on the table today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U133	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U134	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. After the elections were down, I was invited to a debate at the University of Tallinn, where one of the parties was the active young people who had promoted and tried to push it through in the media and everywhere else. As we know, they were very successful. To my great sadness, I noticed there was, in fact, a lack of even those young people who should be most competent in the elections and related matters, an elementary understanding of the competence and tasks of the municipality and the state. This is undoubtedly not because they do not have the ability to make these things clear, but obviously, let us say, mostly because of the lack of interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U135	Please stop asking your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U136	It reveals the danger that they are easily manipulated. Wasn't the decision premature?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U137	The threat of manipulation always threatens all of us, nothing precludes it. Let's say that the life experience of Oscar Wilde has said that these are man's own mistakes, which he has certainly done in some way to mitigate this risk, but unfortunately, none of us are safe from the risk of manipulation. After all, we follow the media and either we do politics ourselves or we are addressed to some kind of political initiative. I wouldn't just consider it a specific problem with a certain age. But, in my opinion, what this culture is going to be like depends, above all, on the political forces. The parties have this responsibility. There is certainly some danger, but I very much hope that it will not materialise, that we will not have party political lectures in educational institutions. In some major municipalities, we have seen this practice. This border must be perceived. I think we did not make it quite clear, either at the first reading or at the second reading of the draft amendment to the Constitution, where this line runs. The fact that politicians introduce their profession in civil society classes, though the lion's share of those in this Chamber has done so, is one thing; the other is to do propaganda for their party. If the school has electoral material outside, do we consider it reasonable or not reasonable? If the party slogan is on the door of the school, is it reasonable or does it not make sense? One thing is a public school, the other is a private school. I think this debate has remained raw. Let us be honest about this: following the amendment of the Constitution, we will not be able to escape these issues if we do not want to caricature the genuine initiative that was actually meant by the vote in favour of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U138	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. There is the risk that political agitation will eat itself into the school especially before the municipal elections and that it will remain there. Are you going to propose or implement any measures to prevent this? Because the threat is very high.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U140	Thank you. Now the question arises where to draw this formal line. In itself, once we have given these young people the right to vote, they have the right to receive electoral information. I think, in principle, it is conceivable to impose any restrictions, such as the existence of a non-tobacco school, a non-bullying school, etc., but I am afraid that we can easily turn into a caricature with this attempt. On the one hand, we give young people greater power to participate in local public affairs, on the other, we try to draw a line somehow. It's a two-way thing. I think that, above all, the issue is the problem of how we imagine these young people should be protected from political propaganda. In some ways, this desire makes this initiative completely meaningless. Young people must be able to make decisions by choosing politically different interests and, of course, they must receive information. At the same time, it is clear that the fight against political parties is not neutral in providing information. This is competition based on the interests and positions of the political forces, which is an inherent feature of this system. In my opinion, the question now is how the political forces, as well as our education system, the schoolchildren, the municipalities, consider it reasonable to lay down rules in this regard. There are some universal rules that are set out in the party law, and now perhaps we need to think about how to lay down additional rules within the framework of good practice or with some kind of guidance at the level of the electoral committee. The public authority's resources must not be privately available. So the question is, if there is a politician going to school, does the other politician have to have the right to go there? The questions may undoubtedly lead to absurdity, but I think it is reasonable to try to discuss the rules before the next local election campaign. At least we are trying to imagine what level of political culture we mean. With the law to draw the line here, this is what I consider to be the last and most unfortunate solution. We would then go against the initiative requested by the majority in Parliament in the very beginning.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U141	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U142	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. We argued on these issues several times during the debate on the amendment of the Constitution. We discussed the dangers and where the logic is, when a 16-year-old child cannot drive and get married, but can very boldly drive the country. After all, government administration is different from driving or getting married. Your party and you yourself were also a supporter of the change. You kindly promised that you would train the children so that they would more or less understand what they would do during the election. They do not know anything about whether these are the local elections during which they vote or the Riigikogu elections. Has our school program included additional classes in social studies or some kind of special program? Time's running, there's gonna be another election soon. What have you done to make the children even know what they're going to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U143	Thank you. No specific civic education programme or any additional burden to introduce participation in elections, we are not going to be included in the curriculum. The general civic education curriculum exists in the country and is also implemented under the direction of the Ministry of Education. It is also probably written that the school programme and textbooks should reflect that young people aged 16 or over can vote from the next election. After all, we have initiatives such as the Youth Parliament and other debates with young people brought into life with the help of civil society organisations. They will probably also be used to raise awareness among young people before the local elections. But I believe that the media, above all, have an important, bearing role in bringing this message to society. A separate curriculum or, figuratively speaking, a voter course is not necessary in my opinion. The trouble with the school program is that it's already overloaded. It doesn't make sense to start stacking things up there.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U144	Dear Minister, Thank you, no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U145	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! When I talk about the dangers of politics coming to school, I mean this. Let me draw you a scenario like this. No one knows which party will be represented by the Minister of Education in two years' time, but everyone knows that in two years' time, there will be much more schools of state and that they will not be subject to local government. These are upper secondary schools. Let's imagine such a real picture that one day a member of a party in a public school who is then approved as a minister would like to meet upper secondary school classes. Gymnastics are called Comes the minister, he's got some kind of pen or some other souvenir with him. The students already like him. Makes fun, tells some fun story, and everyone realizes how great aunt or uncle she is. Then he pushes another uncle in front of you and says you have a civic education class, and I happen to have a man in your neighborhood with me. You have no idea what a nice and good man he is! This man may be in the middle of a language, and he doesn't say a word, but the minister has authority. Maybe you remember how we used to look at important people when we were kids, with what kind of eyes. And then the Civic Teacher, who works at a public school that is directly subject to the Ministry, tells the children that we are going to finish the civic education class today by taking a trial vote. Look at the opportunity you have before you a man who, by chance, is running for election this year. Let's try it! His number is like this, and that's like 127. Each proper upper secondary school has a computer class, goes there and starts asking children if you can choose and know where to press. Let's do it, put the map here, like, and so, 127 yes, very nice. And there was a vote. Finally, of course, they say that children, it was a trial vote, if you want, you can change that. But how many of them bother to do it after that? It's just one scenario. The remaining two minutes won't even allow me to talk about the other one, but there are really scenarios of three or four or more. That is what I was talking about in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I sincerely assure you that there is no way I would like the school to be invaded by politics. There are several possibilities. One of these is completely inappropriate for you. The ID card reader momentarily shows that this is a person who has already completed 16 but is not 18 yet. It's a young person who's probably studying at school, and it's written in that system. And the system, as an option, does not give him the opportunity to vote electronically. Let him make his first choice normally, let him choose for the first time at the polling station. Of course, he may be affected by the information described above, but it can be improved anyway. This can be done in different ways. Such collective voting is the danger I see. How many upper secondary schools do we have in Estonia? It's like 60 to 70, as we were predicted four to five years ago. This same minister has no problem driving through all these gymnasiums in three weeks, so he gives his party a very big head start in local elections. I think that we should think about the dangers that arise not because the 16 and 17 years of age received the right to vote, but because they are in a secure collective that they have teachers who are the authorities in their eyes. For them, it is possible to launch an arbitrary scenario to make them addict, make them vote the way adults want them to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U146	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Jüri Adams!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U147	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. My current speech is mainly intended for you, but also, of course, for the representatives of the people who are interested in it. I want to talk about two issues about an equal period. First of all, when I dealt with the issue of young people's right to vote in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I received a special point of view, but actually I also knew earlier that our lawyers had been educated in different schools and at different times. For a very large number of people, the concept of private law came back to life at a time when their knowledge had developed, and it creates some confusion about the term of incapacity or incapacity. They don't know where it belongs. In my understanding, it is a purely private term under the law and other private law laws of the general part of civil law. If anyone wants to know what this capacity is, it's basically the right to handle your own money the way you want it. If you have money and you want to buy a house, you buy a house. Or if you have a house and you want to sell it, you'll sell it and no one can tell you you can't do it. Now, these rights currently begin in Estonia from the age of 18 under the Civil Code. And because, no matter how we speak, the right to vote for people under the age of 18 has nothing to do with this. There is only one legal way to start earlier, and that is when someone is granted the right to get married earlier. So this is not a question of capacity, but a question of one political right, namely voting rights. These two things tend to get messed up. At all, it seems to me that there is a tendency in Estonia to confuse the vocabulary of different areas. I would like to state to you that the words 'doing power' and 'doing power' do not fit into public law. They can be handled in an illustrative way, but not in a prescriptive way. There is another thing I want to say to the Minister. The minister appointed a revision of the Constitution in 1998. It was a really interesting job. I have this final act, and I have looked at this list of a hundred or so recommendations. This list is one of the weirdest things I've ever seen in Estonia by lawyers. This list apparently developed so that each member of the Commission wrote down all the places that he did not like in the current constitution. This is a long list of what the Members of the Commission consider to be something different in the Constitution. As such, of course, it is entirely legitimate, but now that he represents something, there was no vote to my knowledge. Now, what's interesting is the future fate of this list. And it has actually been the case that not one person has seriously requested that his proposal be implemented. No proposals to amend the Constitution have been formulated, and no political group has come up with any proposals. The constitutional changes that we have made over these years have all been those that have not been on this list. I believe that this list should be regarded as a certain historical crime. At the same time, it provides a good overview of the positions which were the subject of the vote in the Constitutional Assembly and which, however, were still to be defended ex post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U148	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U149	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In the course of the few months I have been here in the Riigikogu, I have noticed that Mr Stalnukhin, in general, knows what he is talking about. He knows the area he speaks about and is well - versed. That is why it seems to me that perhaps this picture of the possibility of political influence at a school that he painted so colorful for us is not just a fantasy picture. Perhaps this is what is done in some local governments, has been done now and in the past in many municipal elections. However, I want to reassure and reassure my colleague that I believe in the honesty of most, almost all Estonian school teachers and school leaders, and I think that this political influence of students before local elections is certainly not possible in most Estonian municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U150	Thank you. I now ask the Minister of Justice of the Riigikogu for a speech chair Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U151	Thank you. George Adams left now, but I wanted to comment on the problem he referred to. In its view, incapacity to act must be regarded as a civil term and the limitation of voting rights should be a separate public relationship. But our constitution clearly states that the right to vote is not a citizen whose court has declared incapacitated. You see, the constitution itself combines these two conditions. It is quite possible that the author of this rule was Mr Adams himself, but it is also possible that it was not, and that was decided in the course of the further procedure. It might be conceivable, in itself, that we are creating a separate institute to decide on the limitation of the capacity of the Institute, but given how serious a fundamental right is, I think it is quite sufficient if the court, on the basis of medical expertise as a judicial authority, finds that a person cannot cope with the organisation of his life to an inherent degree, is unable to make deals and assume obligations. I think that this is a sufficient basis for deciding that it should not have political active voting rights either. Now the issue that emerged from the fact that collective voting is prohibited under e-election good practice rules, but good practice works if all parties really accept it. I recall a specific case from Tallinn in a vocational training institution where such an invitation was made at school for young adults. It was then discussed how sensible such a thing was, and generally it received public criticism. It is certainly possible to construct abuses such as those presented by Mr Stalnukhin. It is quite possible that this can be done in a person always fighting bad and good beginnings. It is possible that such experiments are carried out in some municipalities. And if at least the moral rules that schoolkeepers and school leaders can do are not established before, then there is a risk that such attempts will discredit the entire initiative. The second issue was related to the Constitution, namely the work of the Commission carried out by the Minister of Justice Varul. There, however, a number of proposals were made on the table as so-called "independent," such as the creation of a separate Constitutional Court and the proposal to give a person the right to complain about the violation of his constitutional rights. I remember that this was the beginning of a constitutional amendment that was realised. This is, in particular, a clearer regulation on the chain of command of civil power in the field of defence, which I am thinking of in the field of the Minister of Defence. It was a block where it was done. These proposals were not quite affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U152	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U153	Let's move on to the next question, number 51. An inquiry has been submitted on 10 June 2015 and the topic is the possibility of direct election of the President in Estonia. Reply by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. I ask for a chair of the representative of the members of the Riigikogu who have submitted an inquiry. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U154	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! We have come to a debate that concerns many, because there will certainly be most political debates over the next year on the presidential elections. It is quite appropriate to come back to the issue of the direct election of the President. As you know, the Riigikogu has discussed this 12 times in its different configurations. So far, the direct election of the President by the people has not been voted in favour of the majority of the Riigikogu, but this issue has not disappeared. When we look at our social media and our media polls, people generally think that he really could choose the president. The same opinion has remained in the discussions in society. So in re-independence Estonia, this has been quite a topic of debate in different periods, and one part of Estonian politicians has always found that this could be a measure that allows the people to decide and to speak. It is also found that the President so elected is more of the people's. Consequently, we have a number of questions. Rask, once the Minister of Justice, has said: 'Only weak political parties with no public confidence are in favour of electing the Head of State in Parliament. ' Since in the near future, namely in less than a year's time, Parliament will again be faced with presidential candidates, we have some questions. As Minister of Justice, how do you view the electoral order in force in Estonia, that Parliament will elect the President of the Republic of Estonia in the first round, and if the President has not been elected in Parliament, then the election will go to the electoral body? Have you analyzed how this system has justified itself, what are its pros and cons? We know that there have been different arguments in these debates over the years. Supposedly, the main argument is that the President does not seem to have power, but the people would hope and expect too much from the President. But perhaps you would bring some substantive arguments as to why you do not support the change of electoral order and the direct election of the President by the people, which is supported by the majority of the people. Consequently, have you analysed the arguments why the Czech Republic, a member of the European Union, has decided to directly elect the President? How was the procedure essentially changed? Did the powers of the President be changed, in any way reduced the powers of executive power or Parliament's powers? What legal changes took place in the Czech Republic, and how has this justified itself? And at the end of the more general question: if the direct election of the President is not a planned measure and, unfortunately, if the popular initiatives have not received serious support, what measures have you decided to promote in order to bring power closer to the people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U155	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be answered by the Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U156	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable representative of the heirs! Dear Members, The indirect election of the Head of State is not a unique phenomenon. Although the mechanism designed by the Estonian Constitution of 1992 is quite specific, such combined electoral bodies have existed in other countries. There was a separate electoral body in Finland, for example, where members of the electoral body were so-called directly elected. In Germany, the electoral body is formed as a certain combination of the Union Day and the representatives of the Länder. We then have a situation where there are two separate bodies that elect the President: in the first stage, Parliament as a representative of the people and in the second stage, representatives of local authorities may be added. It is certainly possible to criticise this system in public law. But practice is also a criterion of truth in the functioning of various political mechanisms and it must be said that this system has enabled the Head of State to choose. There has been no formal failure, so the Head of State has not been elected. At the same time, it must be admitted that this system is designed in itself in such a way that congestion is actually possible. In the second round, there is a possible situation where no candidate receives an absolute majority in the vote of the electorate, in which case the election has failed. Then the lack of sufficient political will could lead to a deadlock between Parliament and the electoral assembly. This has been referred to as a potential risk, above all in the presidential elections, but political culture has been such that we have not had this in practice. Inquiries asked about the Czech Republic. There, the election procedure was changed so that in 2013 the President was first elected by direct election. The Ministry of Justice examined the procedure and we found out that the Constitution was amended only in terms of the electoral procedure. There has been no fundamental change in the powers of the President in the Czech Republic. There was a question of whether there was an analysis of how the powers of the President and the powers of executive power could change after the people started to directly elect the President. Maybe so and so. I referred to the Committee on Analysis, which acted before 1998, and which also analysed this issue. We have an executive edition of the Constitution. However, the Ministry of Justice has not carried out a specific analysis recently. It is a question of expressing political will, which power we will give either to the head of state, or directly to the elected head of state, and which power we will give to the government. Estonia cannot be considered as a transitional society under national law. Surely the worst are the situations where there is an interregnum, or grey time between two governments. As we remember, such a time in the field of defence had become confusing. This raises the most constitutionally important problems and failures in the exercise of public authority. Finland reduced the competence of the President after the direct election, instead took a reverse step. However, there are countries where a'semi-president' system has been implemented in connection with the transition to direct selection. There's the president's power expanded. This has been highlighted in the debate on the topic of direct election as one of the arguments against it, as if it would run counter to the idea of the Constitution that Estonia is a parliamentary state. I don't think that's what that would mean, essentially. The President can be elected in this way and in that way, the political choice remains with the constitutional authority, but the legal competence of the President is a matter of its own. You are asking what there have been arguments as to why the change in the electoral order has not been supported. I think that the central argument has been, as I have already said, that Estonia is a parliamentary state. When the President is directly elected, expectations relating to the Head of State could arise in society, which would be difficult for him to meet within the limits of his competence. In my opinion, this has been the main argument against the change in the electoral order. But surely, in any electoral system, political parties have their own interests at stake. One thing is the general understanding of the structure of constitutional law; the other is the practical understanding of political parties as to which one or the other system could be optimal in realising their outlook. You can't underestimate that facet. It is clear that, if you ask for the position of the current government coalition, you do not recommend changing the constitution to change the procedure for electing the President. The Government Union, however, has agreed that the Ministry of Justice will present a proposal that will not change the electoral order in essence, but technically that the nomination of candidates will be required earlier in the run-up to the first round of elections to take place in the Riigikogu next year. This is a very short time. It is also clear that when things are moving on with administrative reform and we have more efficient municipalities, this means fewer municipalities in absolute terms. This raises one question that cannot be overlooked. I think there are 335 people in the next electoral body, but if we have, for example, 60 or 50 municipalities and we have the same scheme, then there will be a relatively small number of voters, which will not correspond to the number of residents they represent, but will be counted with a much higher coefficient. Then the system will have to be reviewed and either to increase the membership of the electoral body or to find another way to comply with the Constitution. This, of course, if there is not enough political will to revise any provisions in the Constitution. What steps will the government take to bring people and power closer together? Surely all the important societal problems that cause concern to people are waiting for solutions. I think that this is a general objective, as is the general aim of bringing people and power closer together, be it economic or social policy. In my opinion, there is no point in setting such a specific public-law objective. More specifically, the Government's Action Programme provides that the Minister of Justice will make a number of constitutional proposals that the Ministry of Justice will have to examine and then make final proposals. These are issues concerning the harmonisation of electoral circles, the system of funding political parties, the regulation of political advertising, as well as the analysis of the constitutional boundaries of the extension of the referendum, in order to encourage the use of referendums. There is certainly a question of whether the possibility of holding a double office between a member of the local government council and a member of the Riigikogu should be abolished, excluding double taxation. There has also been a great deal of talk about the problem of decoy ducks, which received great public criticism. The position of the Government Union is that this issue should be resolved in order to reduce the alienation of public authorities and the formation of artificial reality in elections. A number of such concrete proposals are currently being examined. It is true that such substantial changes cannot be carried out only with the support of the government coalition, and that would be poor practice. I hope that, as a result of this analysis, it will be possible to hold a debate with all political forces. One serious issue, which is also on the table, is the Riigikogu selection system, more specifically the issue of open lists, which must also be resolved in one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U157	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You made it quite clear in your answers that, in political terms, this regulation is either that or that. The rejection of this proposal is rather based on excuses or the emotions of the moment. That's what my question is about. If we look back in history, we will see that there have been other parties besides the Centre Party who have supported the President's direct election. I remember at least one such party, it was called Res Publica, who has now turned into the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. If we leave aside for a moment the political people who could run for office are still in the game of opinions who are for and against who, do you think there are other parties who could support the direct election?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U159	Thank you. We can see this bill's fate forming. I will not speculate here or be the advocate of other political forces in presenting these programmed positions. But since you referred to me personally, I admit that in the direct selection system, I do not see and do not think that this would lead to the collapse of the legal structure of our country. I think there's been too much fear about it. But this is a very important issue, and I think it is also the reason why Parliament has not found enough common ground to start discussing this step. I think after the 2003 elections, the most advanced was probably achieved. I think that the draft has already passed a number of readings with the support of an absolute majority in Parliament, but in the end, this political will was short. This question will probably remain in public debate in one way or another, and the political forces will then express their views. The amendment of the Constitution requires a high threshold to be exceeded. If this consensus is found, it is possible to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U160	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U161	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. It is clear that the President will be elected as usual. Since there will be another presidential election next year, wouldn't it be a good time to review the President's rights as well? I do not think that there should be an advantage in the work that comes with this institution, too. We're being cut down everywhere, the state's pulling together, but this institution is living pretty abundantly. Let's start with whether the grant should be paid and whether all these opportunities should be to hire a driver and security guard. Is that necessary? Especially after they drop the job. God forbid we'd change the president every five years. Otherwise, it will be quite costly for the Estonian state to allow all the benefits that will apply after the end of the term of office. Would it not be wise to review this law and approach it with a more sober European perspective? I think there's too much spit in here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U162	Thank you. I think all proposals to rationally save public money are welcome. At the same time, I do not exclude that the scope of the President's institution, its cost and the benefits, given the formal power of the President, will certainly also be discussed in the campaign raised by the candidates. I guess they won't be touched in one way or another. I remember the proposal by the newly elected President of Finland to significantly cut his salary, given the general stagnation and financial disadvantage of Finland. Yes, you can always ask how much poise or populism there is in such steps, but it is clear that the example is always a force, both negative and positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U163	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of Justice! In the summer of 2003, you were also among those 71 who initiated a law amendment allowing the President to be directly elected. But tell me, as a newcomer, who finally killed it a few years ago or, using Hando Runnel's words, 'the crowd cut off the eggs', castrated it. Tell me exactly what force it was.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U165	Thank you. In my opinion, the party you applied for on the list in 2011 was a bit stubborn, that is, the People's League. I'm gonna put aside the political motives that were in play back then. Some political forces back then supported the change and basically the objective of achieving it was there. However, no agreement could be found on the electoral system in what way to do it. One of the ideas put on the table was a single transferable voice system. The second proposal was a universal system for electing the President in two rounds. The system of the transferable voice provided for a single round. I remember that the Reform Party stood up for a very rigidly single transferable voice system at the time. We also sought a compromise on this ground, but the People's Union said that only the voting method they were offering is acceptable for them. I guess he wasn't finally found a compromise, and everything was the same. We know that the only virtue of compromise is that they are working. No compromise was found at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U166	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U167	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The election of the President by the electoral body means that our heads of state also choose third-country nationals, even those of Russia and other countries. They have the right to vote in municipal elections, and so, through the voters, they will also elect the President for us. Don't you think giving people the right to elect a president would help solve this problem? In that case, our own citizens would still choose the heads of state. And it was also one of the most popular proposals of the population.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U168	Thank you. I think it turned out rather comically in the community. At the same time, I also believe that the proportion of respondents who support the President's direct election is likely to be higher in public opinion polls, or gallups. At least most of the time it's been that way. However, it was somehow concluded that this was not the case under any circumstances. But your question concerned whether the President is also legitimised by a 'non-citizen' or, let us say, by foreigners who have obtained a permanent residence permit in any context. I remember that there has been a discussion about whether the number of voters in each municipality is two or more, for example, should be calculated on the basis of the number of residents or citizens. It is currently calculated on the basis of the number of citizens, and I think it is also reasonable. After all, these voters are actually chosen by the citizens, because the passive right to vote in local elections still belongs to the citizens who choose the voters. Traditionally, general political practice has been that it is the Chairman of the Council when it is a smaller municipality. But if there is a larger municipality, such as Tallinn, then a larger number of people are already elected. A sensible change before the Presidential elections in 2011 was in 2010 when I was not wrong to introduce the principle of proportionality when there are more voters in one municipality. It had to be ruled out that the so-called winner would take everything so that whoever is in the coalition would reach an absolute majority. In Tartu there should now be four voters in my memory, ten in Tallinn, two in Pärnu, Kohtla-Järvel and two in Narva. I don't know if there are already several voters in Viimsi and other major Harjumaa municipalities. I think this rule of balance makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U169	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. It's a practical question. Nine or ten years ago, the country had a presidential residence. Nine years ago, it was sold. In a year, we'll have a new president. Is the state budget for next year earmarked for the purchase of a new residence or is it suddenly starting to rent a farm?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U171	Thank you. In the state budget or more specifically, the State Real Estate Company has, as far as I know, separate funds for the establishment of the President's office home in Tallinn, in the area of Rocca al Mare School and Open Air Museum. Those decisions have been made. Whether this building will be completed so quickly that the new president will be able to enter it on the first day of his term of office, that is a question for the organisers of this construction. Is it also planned to acquire a summer home or a summer residence as a separate state investment for the President, just as Lennart Meri had at his disposal a Paslepa residence? There's no such plan as far as I know. So far, the President's office has been in Kadriorg Castle as a state-owned building. Instead, the residence of the President's term of office should be located in the vicinity of the open-air museum. Whether a summer residence from the state budget is planned, I can say no to that. This is not meant to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U172	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Peeter Ernitsa, the speaker of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U173	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U174	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, who have been left very thinly in the Chamber, a little over ten, I think! I have read this book, the Constitutional Assembly verbatim, quite thoroughly and often. It has been extremely interesting to read it and listen to it in a rather thin discussion about how our constitution was actually done, how it was discussed and what someone said about something. I quote only the words of President Lennart Meri in his last appearance in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, where he said that the debate on this topic is a key issue of our constitutional law. But, as I understand it, my colleagues do not appreciate the key question. We can read Rein Lang's position here, for example, on page 722, two pages. He states that there are no constitutional, psychological or other arguments to prevent the Head of State from being elected by the people. The same thing has been said here by Jüri Raidla, the chairman of the panel at the time, who said that ignoring this proposal would be a political, socio-psychological and constitutional error. I have repeatedly quoted poet Hando Runnel in this Chamber that the members of the Riigikogu castrate their people. And only recently, this was the 12th time in this hall. And as I understand it, maybe I'm wrong, then correct me! In fact, it has happened again. Today we discussed the personal question of a member of the Defence League. In fact, in order to avoid directly electing the President, it has probably been a question of two persons. It's been tried to avoid two bogeymen. The name of the first monster was Arnold Rüütel. If you remember, once really the people like they could choose the heads of state in the first round. But the law at the time was made in such a way that the election actually went to the Riigikogu and was decided here. Maybe I'm wrong, but I think the name of the other bogeyman was Edgar Savisaar, who in 2003 was the reason the people were "cut off" again. But maybe I'm wrong, maybe I'm too new a man here. Anyway, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U175	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U176	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Direct presidential election is a matter of trust for me. If the coalition team in the country doesn't trust the people, I have a question for you. What bad people have done to make your team that coalition partners do not trust the Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U177	Thank you. You don't have to worry about that. The coalition has formed in such a way that the elections have been conducted in Estonia on the principle of proportionality. The various political forces have received a mandate from the people when presenting their programmes, and such a dialogue in society is certainly important for solving problems in any area. The question now is whether the coalition parties were authorised to change the procedure for electing the President in the elections. The answer is no. According to my memory, no coalition party considered changing the procedure for electing the President as either a central issue or as a programme topic. This is not the case in the coalition agreement. The people are asked for a mandate, eventually implementing different ideas that are important, weighty. Surely there is also a change in the constitution. The Centre Party in its programme, I am sure, has touched on this issue, and that is why you have initiated a draft to this effect. In representative democracy, that is understandable.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U178	Let us move on to the next question, which is on our agenda seven. An inquiry has been made on the day of June 10th this year and bears the honorable number 57. The subject is problems related to the Housing and Housing Association Act. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, responds to the inquiry. I ask Olga Ivanova, representative of the Speakers of the Riigikogu, to introduce the inquiry to the public!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U179	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read about the questioning of the Central Party faction, which is linked to the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act, which will be fully in force on 1 January 2018 and which will create many new housing associations. In practice, people exposed to housing cooperatives have found hubs in the new law, which should be discussed and amended. Before making a final decision, we would like to reopen the discussion of the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act, as a result of which we would like to find answers to the questions and then decide on further proceedings. Consequently, we have the following questions for you. First, 'The law states that if the general meeting of the owners of the dwelling is indecisive, the management board shall convene a new general meeting with the same agenda, which shall be valid regardless of the number of participants. Why, in the sense of law, it is a new meeting, not a reunion, and why this meeting is not related to the quorum. " Secondly, it is stipulated that the owner of the dwelling is responsible, inter alia, for maintaining the temperature and humidity in the property of private property which ensures the preservation of the property of the co-ownership and the use of other items of private property for their purpose and without excessive expense. Why has a new principle been introduced here and not the wording 'temperature and humidity according to the standards laid down for living quarters'? 'Three:'The acquisition of the loan will in the future be linked to the amount of the financial year's economic costs and to the majority laid down by law. Did the law also discuss a situation where it is very difficult to obtain a quota on the basis of common ownership and the necessary decision may not be taken and, if such a situation arises, what can be done next? " Fourthly, 'Why and in what cases does the building management company not have to submit the annual accounts? ' The last question is: 'Please explain why the building management company has no right to separate the housing owed from the common heating system (to turn off the heat), while the heating company has a right to the whole house! ' This is the practice we have just seen in the region of Ida-Virumaa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U180	Thank you. I would ask the Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu to answer the question of the Riigikogu's speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U181	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable representative of the heirs and good other members of the Riigikogu! Why was the new comprehensive building cooperative law developed, which should enter into force in 2018 at the anniversary of the Republic of Estonia? The most important reason relates to the objective of eliminating the legal maze that currently characterises the management of apartment property. We have about half a million apartment ownership, but about half of them are managed through cooperatives, while the other half is managed through housing owners' co-operatives and managers. And especially in the case of housing owners' co-operation, it is difficult to understand the legal relationships between all parties. For example, either one of the parties to the agreement to repair the roof is a joint venture or a manager who can apply to the courts for management costs, etc. I will answer the following specific questions. First of all, why is this a new meeting within the meaning of the law, not a repeat meeting, and why is this meeting not related to the quorum? With essentially the same wording, § 19 (3) of the current Apartment Property Act. The same point is borne by § 171 (6) of the Commercial Code, which governs the convening of a new meeting of shareholders in a private limited company when the meeting initially convened proved indecisive. In either case, the term "reconcil' is not used in the law. Therefore, the draft did not see any reason why the building management company should grant an exception in this respect and introduce a new term. In such a situation, the possibility of convening a new meeting ensures that the cooperative retains its judgment even if the majority of the owners of the dwelling do not wish to attend the meeting. The second question concerns the new wording of the air humidity and temperature requirement in the new law, which will enter into force in 2018. Firstly, why is such a new principle established? As can be seen from the draft explanatory memorandum, this is not a new requirement, but a clarification of the general principle currently in force. The same requirement can also be derived from the general obligation of the owner of the dwelling provided for in § 11 of the current Apartment Ownership Act to maintain the real part of the apartment property in order to avoid activities whose effect on other apartment owners exceeds the effect of the normal use of the property. A specific provision on temperature and humidity was included in the draft, especially for the demand of stakeholders and legal clarity. Another question was asked: why has the wording 'temperature and humidity' not been used according to the standards laid down for housing? " For this reason, both the law in force and the new law that will enter into force allow apartment property to be used for purposes other than housing. Thirdly, concerning the borrowing of the loan, which will be linked to the amount of the economic costs of the financial year. Did the law also discuss a situation where it is very difficult to obtain a quota on the basis of common ownership and the necessary decision may not be taken? According to § 36 (1) of the Apartment Ownership and Apartment Association Act, the consent of most apartment owners is indeed required in order to assume a large amount of financial obligations for the Apartment Association. As an intermediate remark, I would point out that the same requirement has been in force for a year and a half in current law. Since borrowing into a building management company essentially means taking on financial obligations for all owners of the apartment, making such decisions must not be too easy; it was the government's position in drafting the bill. Fourthly, 'Why and in what cases does the building management company not have to submit the annual report? " In future, the building management company will not be required to submit its annual accounts if the owners of the dwelling run the cooperative jointly without the appointment of a separate management board or manager and keep cash-based accounts. This possibility exists in a cooperative with up to ten apartments. In such a situation, it can be assumed that all the owners of the dwelling are sufficiently informed about the events in the cooperative and, if necessary, are also responsible for what is happening there. The fifth question asked why the building management company did not have the right to separate an apartment in debt from a common heating system in order to turn off the heat while the heating company had this right for the whole building. In the case of district heating, the heating company has the right to terminate the connection to the consumer, including the housing association. Similarly, suppliers of other services have the right to refuse to provide the service if it is not paid for. However, it is remembered that Parliament has laid down a significant restriction that, if a dwelling is heated, at least 90 days' notice must be given from 1 October to 30 April in winter. Whether the building management company has the right to restrict the availability of some services to the owner of the dwelling, no law regulates, is valid or is new. In general, our current laws and the law that will enter into force in the future are based on the principle that if the building management company has a financial requirement for the owner of the dwelling, it will be disputed in court. In principle, in the case of apartment ownership, it is also possible for other owners to decide that a contract with a single owner of the dwelling must be terminated and to require him to dispose of the properties of the dwelling once the life together with him has become impossible. However, this is an extreme measure and the court does not satisfy such demands with a light hand, especially when it comes to a person's home. That's the answer. What am I saying? I happen to have an appointment tomorrow with the board of the Association of Housing Associations, for whom the very serious problem is that this law was passed at the time of the end of the previous parliamentary term. The managers of housing associations are very good people who do their job in a committed manner, but from their expertise they are not lawyers. The problem now is how to implement the new law. It's very difficult to explain. We can already see these difficulties with the new planning law and the construction code, the interpretation of which is cross-crossed with different views. That's one serious problem. However, I can assure you that if there are ideas that could be specifically changed, I will not rule that out. I am not going to say that this law is sacred and stoned and we will wait two years until it comes into force. Specific problems have been identified in the inquiry and the initiators are ready to discuss them. I would like to listen to all the concrete proposals. I spoke to you in answer to the question of warm shutting down what the logic of the law is. But I must confess to you that my general understanding is that the law should protect, above all, an honest and fulfilling person. Very many conflicts come from cooperatives and other houses with lots of apartments, from the fact that some people simply fail to fulfil their obligations. And that means they're slipping on honest apartment owners. So I am certainly prepared to take these proposals seriously. Of course, there is a technical question of how to turn the heat tap off in some apartments. But it is clear that if a person fails to fulfil his obligations, that obligation falls on the cooperative. I also admitted in my reply that the current theoretical scheme is such that you have to go to court, but we know that this procedure is not overly simple. I am not going to say that this is automatic and that the court will make such decisions with a light hand. So we have a certain time when we want to make changes in the coming year. If the proposals are compelling, sensible and well-founded, I will not rule out taking them into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U182	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U183	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We dealt with the presidents of the housing associations several times and discussed the problems related to this law, which will enter into force in 2018. I will be honest with you that no law has been criticised as much as that law. My question to you is: have you discussed the proposals made by the presidents of the housing associations and which were sent either through the association or directly to the Ministry of Justice? I sincerely hope that after you have met them tomorrow, you will learn what is happening in the cooperatives. But we have a big question already discussed in this Chamber. The Centre Party proposed the setting up of dispute resolution committees. There's been talk here today about going to court. Wouldn't it really be a step forward if all the major cooperative disputes that are currently going to be discussed by the Court could be resolved by the House Associations Committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U184	Thank you. As far as the so-called creation of quasi-judicial bodies is concerned, I am rather sceptical about the competences and competences attributed to these institutions. If there is still a question of positions on the property rights of individuals, then it is my general logic that the courts have jurisdiction. However, one question relates to the fact that the new law no longer requires the statutes of housing associations. The logic of the law is that the law provides sufficient so-called catalogue answers on how to act in solving legal cases, to carry out different procedures. At the same time, I myself attended the council day of the Association of Housing Associations and saw that we must not assume that, in the case of such a large law, people will be able to find solutions in its text. It's also a new law. Maybe it makes sense to develop a standard charter. It is not possible to add it to the law, but it would exist and see what a general decision-making and cooperative management mechanism is. Of course, any differences can also be agreed if the cooperative wishes. Yeah, there was a lot of criticism. I've gotten into it and I have to admit that in certain cases conflicting positions also sounded. On one side is the interests of the cooperative as an organization, on the other side the interests of the owners of the apartments. However, the property owner is the central part of the entire building association law. The housing association serves the interests of the owners of the apartments. For me, the key question is that I definitely want to discuss it tomorrow with the board of the Association of Housing Associations, whether there is sufficient guarantee that bona fide landlords can protect themselves from a mistrustful owner of the dwelling, whether this law offers this protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U185	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U186	Thank you. Minister, thank you for your answers. Indeed, I am pleased to hear that you are interested in the activities of housing associations. Tomorrow we will meet with the support group of the Riigikogu with the presidents of a very large group of housing associations. Representatives of AS Tallinna Vesi and Tallinna Heating have been invited to speak about topics that are most interesting to them, including heating and electricity shut off, if the owner of the apartment is in debt. If we look at Ida-Viru County, the realization of real estate will not save the situation because this real estate costs nothing. You often live in an apartment for as long as the debt is higher than the price of the property. So even half of the house may be left empty, and the poor housing company will have to pay for everyone. How can we deal with this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U187	Thank you. I think we're talking about mostly Kohtla-Järve houses, where half of the house is empty, some owners don't pay rent, but live inside, some owners don't pay and maybe they haven't been seen for many years. This really is a drastic situation, especially when managing the whole house is on the shoulders of older people. Clearly, this is a much wider problem than the management of a housing company. To be honest, managing such a large house is no longer sustainable. Here, the municipality must already help to find a solution that may be painful for some people, but at least ensures that most people have housing. But managing a house like this is undoubtedly a dead end. Now, the question of whether to give the cooperative the right to take resolute steps against those who do not fulfil their obligations. As I said, the law provides for the possibility to dispose of the apartment. I fully agree that in very many cases public utility debt is higher than the value of this property. Compared to real estate prices in Tallinn or other more expensive regions, the prices are symbolic. If there is a desire to suggest how this system could function reasonably, then I am fully open to discussing it. I will certainly address this issue when I meet the board of the Association of Housing Associations. One of the issues cooperatives can address is how to motivate owners to save their heating costs. After all, the heating bill is formed in panel buildings in solidarity. How could people still be granted the right to have an individual meter put in their apartment? I think that's a right. Then people would be stimulated to feel that if they consume less heat, it would also be felt on their heat bill. So far, many cooperatives have a heating bill for the whole team, the whole cooperative or the building.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U188	Minister, thank you. No further questions. No calls, no negotiations. An inquiry has been answered. Dear colleagues, all inquiries today have been dealt with. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U189	I would ask everyone who wishes to register for speaking in a free microphone to do so after the hammer hit. We're looking forward to active participation. Peter Ernitsa, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U190	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen. Your lines have gotten even thinner. Soon we'll be discussing another thick bill number 84. But I want to tell you about a man who's trying to make people's lives a little more dignified, just those who are either in bed or in a wheelchair. We're talking about Ants Vääris, a man from Põlvamaa who, voluntarily and without commercial interests, is trying to help people. He is trying to help them in the so-called distant slave south, but not only there, but also across Estonia. This man has spent a lot of time trying to get himself an invalid where a wheelchair can be pushed. As I understand it, the state has no money to help him. We are talking about EUR 20000, which would be used to acquire an invalid bus, or EUR 40000. This bus would give many people left at home a little more decent life. Ants Vääri has now opened up accounts for good donors who could help to solve his concerns and, in fact, to improve the lives of many of the inability pensioners and invalids living in the country. That's all I wanted to talk to you about. I think it would be nice for all of us to make a small donation to him. I already did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U191	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Jüri Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U192	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A week ago, my analysis came to an end here. I was discussing the rights of our members of the Riigikogu here in the plenary hall of the Riigikogu. The general argument is that we have five or six general rights. I managed to deal with three of them. In fact, first of all, I have no better expression for it. This means that if a bill is put before us, we must have time to read it, think about it, ask for opinions. In general, it is well organised in the Riigikogu, it may not have been a long time since the attempt to process the text only on the same day as it has been submitted to the proceedings. With the subject dealt with here today, I will perhaps try to explain why the Presidential elections in the Latvian Parliament will succeed better than we do. Perhaps the reason is that Latvia does not allow more than one voting round a day. So they can consult each other at night and night. The second right we have here is the right to ask questions to the waitress. We tend to limit the number of questions to one or two. Few attempts have been made to abuse the right to ask, for example, to delay time. I think it would be possible to introduce this method, which I remember in the VII Riigikogu, once had, that, apart from the allowed number of questions, it would be possible to ask more written questions through the chair of the sitting, who selects the appropriate out of them. The third right is what I used several times today. This is the right to participate in negotiations when negotiations are open. In this respect, the current rules of procedure are extremely hostile to a member of the Riigikogu that a member of the Riigikogu cannot participate in negotiations on very many agenda items. It has been replaced by regulation that a representative of his group can speak for him. This is, in my opinion, a violation of our rights. The right to speak further was also known in the 1920s-1930s in the Estonian Riigikogu, but then it was realized in a way that Konstantin Päts gave a half-hour speech during the discussion of the state budget, and members of the political groups and political groups also got their time. That was a very reasonable arrangement. The fourth right is to propose amendments to a text which is pending. We really do have that right. The fifth right is to call for amendments to be put to the vote. This, however, is very doubtful because it has been an area where the most advanced methods of obstruction have been developed. We have had a number of situations where we cannot demand a vote on the proposals. One example is the discussion of the state budget. Last, sixth law, I'm questioning air. We also have the right in the Rules of Procedure to ask for breaks before the vote. In fact, we have had a basic method of obstruction that has been used for years. I don't think anyone here but me knows that this right was ever used for real purposes. For example, there were certain situations in the VII Riigikogu where there was a need to take a break for consultation. And then the work was interrupted, let's say, for five minutes, the members of the Riigikogu were all in four corners of the Chamber and consulted with each other on what to do in the situation. All these rights can, in principle, be exercised, but my main point to you is that, sometimes even if there is an obstruction, it cannot be an excuse for us to take away all or part of the right. Obstruction must be dealt with separately, with only reasonable means of doing so. But no right should be removed by referring to the possibility of abuse of obstruction methods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-19_U193	Thank you. There's no more calls. The free microphone round is over. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 6.37 p.m.
