ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U2	Good afternoon, President of the Republic, Riigikogu, Prime Minister, Ministers, constitutional officials, Excellencys and guests! I will open the second session of the XIIIth Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U3	First of all, I would like to ask Siim Valmar Kiisler, a member of the Riigikogu, to take a vow of office!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U4	By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U5	By decision No 676 of the President including 14 September, Liisa Oviir has been appointed Minister of Enterprise, Hannes Hanso Minister of Defence and Jevgeni Ossinovski Minister of Health and Labour. Let's hear the ministerial vows now. In order to take an oath to take a speech chair, Liisa Oviir, Minister of Enterprise!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U6	Honourable President of the Republic! Honourable Riigikogu! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U7	Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso, to take a vow of office!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U8	Honourable President of the Republic! Honourable Riigikogu! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U9	I beg the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, to take your oath.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U10	Honourable President of the Republic! Honourable Riigikogu! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U11	Speaking chair, President of the Riigikogu Eiki Nestori, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U12	Mr Toomas Hendrik Ilves, President of the Republic, honourable Riigikogu, Prime Minister and other members of the Government of the Republic! Dear diplomats! To my own surprise, I am forced to begin this speech by calling for the protection of one of the fundamentals of democracy, the right of a person to express his or her opinion. Why am I talking about this? I am talking about this because the debate on the hottest and most difficult refugee mother currently has repeatedly been indicted, which has now been named after the author's will. The Estonian people are said to have been hit by nothing less or more than a tolerance attack. No, it's definitely not like that! Because Anna-Maria Penul is entitled to her opinion when she writes a heartfelt column, Helen Sildnal, when she and her associates organized the event 'Friendly Estonia', and I repeat, all those who attended this event, Jüri Käo, when she, together with other entrepreneurs, brings out the economic side of the refugee mother, but also the President of the Republic, when, for example, she gave his opinion in the Victory Day speech in Kärdla, the Prime Minister and the entire government in their daily work, members of the Riigikogu and its chairman. On the other hand, the arson of a house, when children sleep in it, is not a crime, a crime against humanity, a hate speech, whatever form, just a vulgar villain. It has been said that people who are open-minded and respectful of differences can leave Estonia in an angry state. That's not gonna leave. I don't think so. Come back and build Estonia, friendly Estonia! I am saying this because the mother of refugees in a heated society is immediately getting hotter, because the operative part of the Cohabitation Act must also be adopted as a work that has not been completed in the previous Riigikogu. What bothers me especially and saddens me is the fact that they claim to be a defending Estonia and an Estonian, who have been subjected to this so-called tolerance attack. Who gave you that right? There are more than others in each country and nation. It all depends on how we view those who are outnumbered. Do you really not know that an Estonian can also be a homosexual? After all, there are Muslims among Estonians. There are also black-skinned people. Indeed, there are few or very few, but they are Estonians, they speak our language, they sing our songs, they learn and work here, they are born and they die. Only we here and now can and must take care of the present and future of the language and culture of the Estonian people. This requires creating and building, not hating and burning. You see, tolerance can be approached with both heart and mind. What should most object, for example, if everyone in this country can organise their lives in a human way, live together, be happy? I understand if someone believes in his god, but I also believe in a believer to understand that as an atheist, I don't have that god, or that a person of another religion has a different god. If hundreds of thousands have to leave their homes to choose between life and death, then they should be given the opportunity to recreate it. Thousands of Estonians were given this opportunity after 1944. By reason, I ask you what opportunity it is for us to be and move forward in this world today, where there is a very clear struggle between open, democratic and tolerant living arrangements and dictators who rely on the creation and hatred of the enemy. What chance do we have if we don't choose the side of living on the edge of this confrontation? That way, we'll be crushed into powder, no matter how hard a nut, between two big and hard stones. Estonia is a free world and this world respects the multiplicity of opinions, human freedoms, including the freedom to be different from others. This world does not go deaf to prayers for help from those in need and values human life. This world is working together and concluding agreements between the big and the smaller, jointly defending its values, including us who belong to the European Union and NATO. Just by explaining: all those who want to show black doors want us not to belong to NATO, too. Hopefully, it's all about simplicity, nothing more. An integrated world is nothing new in the history of mankind. Different nations have passed on values to others of their nature, and in the end, we have all become richer. Perhaps the following question is too black and white, but it should be understood by everyone. Why do you, who see a threat to our culture in accepting a family that fled from Syria for survival, use Arabic numbers in everyday life? I have been before, and I can certainly now be blamed for the fact that the man, once again, bows to Europe. Don't bow! Why? I am European. Why should we nod in front of ourselves? And all those who make such accusations could already leave the Estonian SSR to the Republic of Estonia. Good Riigikogu! I would like us to talk in the debate on refugee mothers about the main, i.e. how to receive refugees. We teach the Estonian language to those who arrive here, explain our customs to them, provide education for children and work for parents. If we respect them, they respect us. I would like no one to be insulted in the debate on the operative part of the Cohabitation Act, neither in this Chamber nor in the sitting of the Commission. The law itself has been passed. It is not our job to assess whether a law is needed. It is our task to make changes to legislation on the basis of the law that has already been adopted. And if the Riigikogu fails to do this work, there is no need to wonder if, for example, the Supreme Court obliges us to do so. We must also not forget for a moment that there is essentially a war going on near us in Europe. In fact, the same conflict exists between the visions of an open and closed world. A truce that one side does not abide by has not ended this war. This requires a greater contribution from us to national defence, an active foreign policy, hopefully also within this Riigikogu, on the basis of unanimous decisions by all groups of ambassadors. I take this opportunity to thank all former and current members of the Riigikogu, as well as our officials, who have sincerely and often contributed to a better future for Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia in addition to fulfilling their other duties. On the basis of my very strong conviction, it is we, together with Latvian and Lithuanian friends, who can understand these countries and explain them to the rest of the world. Honourable Riigikogu! There were dozens of other concerns that would have been up-to-date to share with you: labour poverty, the situation in agriculture and in the management of public enterprises, administrative reform and much more, where life requires concrete action from us. But we can talk about them in the work, as we say. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I hope the Riigikogu elections are over now, today. You will have a lot of work to do, difficult choices, and also very difficult choices. I wish you luck, cooperation, respect for your colleagues. Thank you! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U13	Mr President, I ask you to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U14	Respectable Riigikogu and members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen, good friends! When I spoke here a year ago about the beginning of Parliament's autumn season, Estonia was most concerned about Ukraine's partial occupation. The shooting down of a Malaysian passenger plane was fresh in our minds, the attack by the Russian forces on Donbass continued. A year later, the situation in Ukraine has not changed much, there is a political stalemate and almost every day reports of dead Ukrainian soldiers. However, a large part of Europe has forgotten Ukraine, because Europe is facing a new crisis. As a child, as a child of war refugees, I did not understand well the stories of my parents about a child's incomprehensible thing like running away. And I guess I still don't understand all the trauma that could have been left by my escape from home and driving in little boats across the sea. However, the search for this understanding has affected my entire life course. Already in middle school, I started reading so - called adult books about history and looking for answers to the question of why they fled. How was it possible that the fully civilized nation and culture that gave us Beethoven and Bach seized such hatred that they began to kill people for their nation? How was it possible that people were deported to Thailand for the fact that a farm built over several generations suddenly turned out to be too big or too successful? But it was possible. Hate, envy, willingness to destroy other people with a skull or a gas chamber, terrorize innocent people, torture is all part of our own recent past. The fear that this will happen to you forces a man to flee his country. Later, I began to ask if we could ourselves, i.e. whether the leaders of Estonia at the time really understood what was happening around them. By studying it, we discover a depressing picture that was well characterized by the speech of Ants Piibu, then Minister of Foreign Affairs, in Rakvere on June 2, 1940. I repeat, this speech was held on 2 June, two weeks before Estonia was occupied. I quote: 'We have, however, had a rather happy hand, since we have stayed away from war. Much of this estimable achievement must be written to the unity of our people and the cooperation of the government, led by the wise leadership of the President of the Republic, Konstantin Päts, who, together with the government, has understood the reality of the circumstances and has taken steps accordingly. ' What, though, is the reality of our present circumstances? We know history doesn't happen again. However, a certain mentality may persist for a long time and through time. The understanding that we are drawing to our swamp island, where the world and the dangers cannot reach, as described by our ancient world, Valdur Mikita, is not a crook. The idea that all of this might pass us by is very human, but it didn't simmer in 1939 or now. While we are constantly concerned that what was born in 1939 and 1940 should not happen again, we have not become aware of any new dangers. Let us face it: there is now a wave of unprecedented war refugees in our countries threatening us, that is, Europe. We see a new migration of peoples, similar to what was seen a thousand and a thousand and a half years ago here in Europe. It's been predicted for years, and today, I'm afraid, it's here. Wars, killings, the failure of failed states to protect their inhabitants, in the case of Syria, the violence of sole ruler against their own citizens, the large gaps in the standard of living, all of which have led to the movement of great human masses. If we do not understand that the whole of Europe is under pressure, if we hope that it will perhaps pass us in Estonia, then I must say that I have seen this attitude repeatedly in the past. You, too, maybe when the crisis in Ukraine broke out, when it was claimed that these threats are not a problem for southern Europe, that it may suddenly pass away. No, I'm not. The lesson that Estonia must never be left alone, that Estonia must be with others, that Estonia must be in the circle of decision-makers, and that survival also means contributing to solving common concerns is as important now as a de facto independent state throughout all years. At the same time, this current crisis is more broadly due to Europe's own unwillingness to address the challenges surrounding it. The desire not to do anything forceful, but to limit itself to statements of serious concern about what is happening in Ukraine or Syria, will ultimately lead to their own problems coming into our courtyard. I once wrote that if Europe does not go to its neighbourhood, the neighbourhood will come to us. Today we see how the unwittingness to contribute more to the development of the Mediterranean region has led to a massive escape to our continent. In other words, Estonia needs to take a look at its own toes and start to see the big picture, the European picture. The subject of war refugees does not fall under 'Others of us', where we have to do something just because Europe does not understand us otherwise. It's a matter of culture for all of us. How do we distinguish between refugees and economics in a situation where the migratory influx has gotten out of control? Here we must bet and help our fellow Europeans. Otherwise, we forget where we belong. The question is how we in Estonia, we in Europe, manage. How can Europe cope, or how can we cope, in a situation where over 100 million people are estimated to be on the move in the world? More than a million of them have already come to Europe. The answer to these European problems is a strong, united and much more active Europe, a Europe that is not only Venus, but is also a little Mars, if you borrow Robert Kagan's former characterisation. This, however, requires our joint and perhaps difficult steps. Just as the response to aggressive Russia is strong and united NATO. Estonia cannot lock down; we cannot deal with these problems alone. Ladies and gentlemen! In order for us to be able to do all this so that we can make important decisions, we need to restore courtesy in the centre between us. It has completely disappeared in recent years, but especially in recent months. The speech once only included in an anonymous commentary has entered politics. The commentary itself has also become gruesome and threatening. In his 100 years ago, John Aavik gave us a word that, unlike any other word he said, like a weapon, a crime, a moment and a 'convince', unfortunately, did not come into circulation. This is the verb 'herjama', which means personalized and threatening intriguing, which is much clearer than the impersonal and abstract 'hate speech'. It's not passive speech, it's active action. Individuals are derisive and allow gruesome revenge on those who think otherwise. It has exceeded the limit of tolerance and has nothing to do with the freedom of expression that I have always stood for. I expect the Riigikogu to address this issue. At the moment, when threats of beating and rape have been blown up against individual persons, when it is allowed to burn down homes of a member of the Riigikogu, it is important to seriously think about how to put an effective stop to this, so that the names of the bereaved are made public so that there is a consequence of the absconding. At the same time, I hope that the current criminal populism will be stopped. There is no need to criminalise everything, for example to leave the people who have served the sentence against the Constitution with additional life sentences and restrictions. I would be delighted if, more than six months after the elections, the representatives of the people would be able to deal with important and substantive matters, instead of endlessly adjusting the coalition agreement. The impression that this and the incomprehensible changes of ministers are like a temporary government does not, at this critical and difficult time of decision-making, allow anything to be felt other than ambiguity. I seriously hope that the budgetary procedure that will soon begin in this Chamber will run smoothly and that the government will not be tempted to carry out another 'confidence study' in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! I couldn't stand here without talking about what farmers have gathered outside this building for. I invite you all to understand that farmers did not gather today to protest against Toompea. Their concern and concern for agriculture and, more generally, for rural areas is justified. For various reasons, pig and dairy farming have been hit most painfully. The Estonian Parliament and the Estonian Government should now be an ally to Estonian farmers and let us find ways to support them quickly. If this means emergency crisis assistance, then assistance must be provided. If this means paying transitional subsidies from the state budget, as the European Union promises, then they must be paid. Let us look at all this in the general context of the European Union and at our farmers compared to farmers in neighbouring countries. We see a lot of competition. Inevitably, those who are supported by their country in the promised way are stronger here, and those who are saved by the state are weaker. Estonia should not be among the latter. Estonia should treat its farmers' concerns with solidarity, which is one of the strengths of the European Union. After all, it is not just a matter of one industry; it is a matter of rural survival outside cities. However, I encourage the farmers themselves more to work together, which will help to alleviate the crisis. Honourable Riigikogu! In the Estonian people, both you and I and everyone else, we need to take a fresh look at our own myths about our country and people, these self-evident and inspiring social axioms. Since the awakening of the 19th century, we have had several spurring narratives. First, 700 years of slavery culminating in the battle of Võnnu and confiscation of manors. I think we've been recovering from Jakobson's abscess for a long time. The Soviet occupation killed this so-called Native Enemy sold in one year. I think we would now be happy if, like the Swedes in Finland, we had a piece of Estonian Germans here. Secondly, the Russian era, the Soviet occupation. Resistance to Russification, an attempt to condemn the independent judicial system of the rule of law and communism, carried us for a long time. But will it carry us on as we soon celebrate the quarter century of our restored independence? Please, let us argue about this, because right now, as I said earlier, we are facing other problems. And the third myth is that Estonia is a liberal economy characterised by the expression 'the state is a bad host'. Perhaps the state is not really the best host, but it seems to me that there are important areas in Estonia where the host does not exist. This leads us to the concepts of 'administrative reform' and'state reform', where we have only seen cosmetic improvements too often and for too long. After a quarter of a century of rebuilding, building and strengthening our country, we could consider whether the brave principles of our times are just as well suited to one well-integrated European Union and NATO Member State. A modern state must be effective, but this also means that the state must resolutely impose itself on important matters of state life, such as education, infrastructure and internal security. Disunity, duplication and fragmentation are rampant in education. Infrastructure is characterised by local corruption, wishful thinking and dangerous omissions. Internal security has remained the role of orphans, where the state obliges rescuers, police and border guards to carry out their tasks under non-appropriate conditions. I mentioned corruption. The management of state-owned companies and related responsibilities have been discussed for many years. Years! It cannot be said here that the state has been a bad master, rather careless or sloppy. Only now do we know that in one barn have servants been stealing for a long time, and the master has not noticed it. The dissipation of responsibility in the management of companies of strategic importance to the state cannot be allowed. The claim 'I didn't know' is no excuse. Respectable Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen! If this Parliament needs a task and a narrative, I would put it this way: let us make Estonia newer! Let us do serious work and put aside replacement activities! We must not drag into the way of events. Education, state reform, swine plague and the reception of refugees from third countries should and could have dealt with all these issues long before the crisis was in hand. For some reason, however, these problems almost always hit Estonia unexpectedly. I hope that an active Parliament will be able to anticipate problems and manage processes. If a car loses its ability to drive on a slippery road, we don't close our eyes, we don't let go of the wheel, and we don't expect it to pass. On the contrary, we're gonna take the wheel harder, we're gonna make an effort to drive the car back on the road. So let's do it with the country! Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U15	Thank you, Mr President. [[Let's hear it.]] Sings a male choir. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U16	Honourable Riigikogu! The beginning of our session today was made more beautiful by the Türnpu male choir of the Tallinn Men's Song Society, who performed the Türnpu song "Mu Eestimaa." We thank the male choir singers and their conductor Ene Kangron. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]] But it is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Heili Tõnisson will do it on behalf of the Government of the Republic. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U17	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates six draft laws and submits a draft decision of the Riigikogu. First, the draft law amending the Structural Support Act for the period 2014 to 2020. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of State Administration Arto Aas when the bill is being processed. Secondly, the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and related amendments to other laws extending the rights of victims in criminal proceedings. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the law on the grant of international protection to an alien and other laws in connection with it. In the Riigikogu, Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Water Act. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the processing of this bill in the Riigikogu. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Aviation Act. Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will represent the Government of the Republic in the processing of this bill in the Riigikogu. Sixthly, the draft law amending the Employment Allowance Act and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Health and Labour when the bill is being processed. Seventhly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Acknowledgment of the State's summary report for the financial year 2014. The Minister of Finance Sven Sester represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when the bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U18	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Estonian Centre Party initiates a draft decision of the Riigikogu proposing to the Government of the Republic to grant transitional support to farmers from the state budget in the years 2016 to 2020 at the maximum permitted rate of the European Union. Estonian agriculture is experiencing the biggest crises in recent decades, both due to the widespread spread of African swine fever and the restrictions on imports from Russia. After all, we know that other European countries are able to pay their farmers domestic subsidies. Estonia can do the same if it wants to. As a result of the current unfair agricultural policy, our farmer is in serious trouble and both the Estonian dairy sector and the pigmeat sector are in trouble. In the event of the abolition of milk quotas, we could have assumed that our milk producers could now produce more milk, but in reality the situation is the opposite. The Estonian farmer has fingers so low that he is ready to sell his pure breed of cows to Latvians or take them to the slaughterhouse as sausages. Such an agricultural policy is unsustainable. But there is even more concern about the situation in the pigmeat sector. Today, more than 22,000 domestic pigs have been killed as a result of the spread of swine plague. This calls into question the guarantee of food security in Estonia. We are of the opinion that an Estonian farmer must be treated equally with other farmers in the European Union. Let us therefore support the Estonian farmer and love Estonian food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U20	Thank you. Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to ask Mr Rõivas about the Estonian Action Plan in the refugee and immigration crisis that hit Europe. During the last two months, there have been dramatic developments at the external borders of the European Union and NATO. Hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants, economic refugees and war refugees have entered Europe, resulting in pressure from the European Commission to establish migration quotas. In July 2015, Mr Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, claimed to the Parliament that Estonia has the capacity to accept a maximum of 200 war refugees and that in reality only 170-180 persons will be accepted in two years. On 4 September 2015, however, the Minister of the Interior assured the public that Estonia would be able to receive 200 additional persons, and already on 9 September or five days later, Prime Minister Rõivas confirmed in the media that Estonia is fully solidarity-based and willing to accept 373 additional persons on the basis of Jean-Claude Juncker's plan. Thus, without the mandate of the Riigikogu, including the Committee on European Union Affairs, the government of the Republic of Estonia has expanded Estonia's share of the reception to 5431553. In this context, we ask the Prime Minister to answer the following questions in accordance with § 139 of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. On the basis of which mandate or mandate have you promised to accept an additional 373 additional persons in addition to the previous 180 persons? Why have the members of your government lied when they promised the opposition, voters and all the residents of Estonia that Estonia will receive up to 180 people in the next two years? Why has Estonia's capacity to receive refugees and immigrants increased by 276.5%, or from 200 to 553? How much will it cost the state budget to increase Estonia's capacity to receive refugees and immigrants? Last but not least, when the emphasis is on solidarity and European unity, where does Estonia run the upper limit for the reception of refugees and immigrants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U22	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U23	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I am going to pass on the draft 'amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control'. Following the end of the term of office of Mr Aaviksoo, the Group of the Pro Patria and Mr Res Publica propose that Mr Metsoja be appointed as the main member of the Commission and Mr Viktoria Ladynskaja as his replacement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U24	On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted nine drafts and one inquiry. We will proceed with them on the basis of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now please check your presence! 89 members of the Riigikogu are present, 12 are missing. Next, we need to confirm the week's agenda. Honourable Riigikogu, I shall vote on the approval of the weekly agenda. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, no one opposed, with two abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U25	Let us begin the discussion of the items on the agenda. First of all, the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Mart Helme, Martin Helme, Henn Põljaasa, Uno Kaskpeiti, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Silla concerning African swine fever. Mart Helmel has the floor on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U26	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, good wishes for the new autumn season. Like many of you, I come from the farmers' demonstration, and there I get the famous song from the days of the 1905 Revolution, the modification of which might sound as follows: "The farms are burning, the pigs are dying, the forest and the land are becoming foreign. " We have serious questions about African swine fever to the Minister for Agriculture or to the Minister for Rural Affairs. The questions are as follows: 'Why isn't the burner used in the disposal of pigs? What causes problems with the burial of pigs, and what are the risks to the natural environment? What measures are planned to prevent farmers from going bankrupt in the current crisis? Why are healthy animals executed? Why can't the meat industry use whole boars shot by hunters? ' I think the questions are very clearly formulated. We expect them to have constructive and not demagogic answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U27	The question must be answered by the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U28	President of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I would like to begin by welcoming you on the occasion of the first sitting and the beginning of the season and, at the same time, I apologise for being late for the meeting in connection with the farmers' meeting. The first question: 'Why isn't the burner used to dispose of pigs? ' A mobile burner was purchased to create additional preparedness to destroy animal carcasses. At present, the burner is used on the territory of the waste plant Vireen in parallel with the waste plant utilisation furnaces. There is also preparation for moving a mobile burner to Saaremaa in order to eliminate the need to transport animal by-products to the mainland. The use of the burner on the spot shall always be decided on a case-by-case basis for each specific outbreak, taking into account both the number of animals to be killed and the location of the outbreak. In the light of the experience so far, outbreaks have mainly occurred in farms where thousands of pigs are kept, which may be difficult to dispose of due to the capacity of the burner. In the case of the destruction of carcasses of wild pigs, experts consider that five on-site burials are the preferred option. Wild boars are found in small quantities at the same time and it is not right to move carcasses out of the forest and transport them to a waste plant in order to prevent the spread of infection. The same can be said about the transport of a mobile burner to a specific small fireplace. You will ask what causes the problems of burying pigs and what the associated risks are for the natural environment. The Minister for the Environment can certainly provide more precise answers to environmental risks, but, on the basis of experience and knowledge so far, the greatest environmental challenges in burial are linked to the protection of groundwater and soil water. There has also been a question of how the selection of the burial place takes place. Burying of pigs slaughtered at the outbreak shall be decided by the local disease control committee on a case-by-case basis. In order to make a final decision on burial, it is imperative that the Environmental Board agrees. I also mean the risks I mentioned in my previous reply. To date, the Environmental Board has analysed the possibilities in all counties and selected possible locations for burial sites. The capacity and accessibility of these burial sites need to be further assessed. Logistically, the best option is definitely to use less frequently driven roads, avoiding settlements and farms. Question 3: "Which measures are planned to prevent farmers from going bankrupt in the current crisis? ' The market organisation measures are available for emergency support to pig farmers. Estonia is able to apply to the European Commission for emergency support in relation to animal diseases and loss of consumer confidence due to risks to human, animal or plant health. The implementation of this market-based emergency measure is based on Article 220 of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 August 2013. At the request of a Member State, the Commission may, by means of an implementing act, establish exceptional support measures taking into account the following: restrictions on intra-Union trade or trade with third countries which may result from the application of measures to prevent the spread of animal diseases; serious market disturbances directly due to a loss of consumer confidence in the potential risk to human, animal or plant health, including the risk of additional diseases. Where a Member State has submitted a request and exchanged information with the European Commission, the European Union shall finance the measure up to 50% of the costs incurred by that Member State. In this respect, it should be noted that this is a one-off grant. Above all, this support is intended for those regions where the so-called "third" or "red" zone is established, with certain trade restrictions, particularly in relation to exports. Secondly, there is support for private storage. We have also asked the European Commission to implement this support. This is a European Union market organisation measure which enables the applicant to benefit from aid to cover the storage costs of pigmeat placed in a cold store. According to today's knowledge, this support can be expected to be more extensive than in the previous period. This means that this period will be extended by more than 120 days and the aid rate may be 70 to 80% of the costs. These measures should clearly alleviate the situation in this sector. Of course, in all farms that are specifically farms with outbreaks of swine fever, the execution of animals is then carried out in accordance with agreed measures and the costs are compensated for up to 100%, including feed, if it is to be destroyed. You're asking why healthy animals are being executed. African swine fever is a highly aggressive viral disease with a mortality rate of up to 100%. This plague virus is so dangerous that we can't risk the virus running around the population. The only real way to control the situation is to execute all the pigs in the herd. This is one of the most important measures in terms of controlling the spread of disease. In addition, we will also reduce the suffering of pigs because the disease is accompanied by high fever and other serious symptoms. Therefore, all animals are considered sick at the outbreak and executed by bloodless execution. A lot of people have been asking if we have to follow the order to execute all the pigs so accurately. In the fight against the spread of a particularly dangerous disease, the rules laid down must be followed very closely and no exceptions are possible. It would nullify all other activities. Question: "Why can't the meat industry use healthy boars shot by hunters? " The meat industry can handle hunted healthy boars; there are no legal obstacles to this. Certain requirements and restrictions have been established for the marketing and labelling of meat and products derived from feral pigs which have been recognised as healthy from risk zones. The label provides a guarantee that the checks have been carried out and makes it possible to ensure that meat and products derived from restricted zones do not leave Estonia. The label is intended to ensure traceability for the supervisory authorities. The industries are ready to accept boars and their meat, but it should be taken into account that the quantities they accept depend on market opportunities as well as consumer demand. That answers the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U29	Any questions for the Minister? Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I have this question. The African swine fever didn't come to our door unexpectedly - this illness has a long story and it moved towards Estonia for quite a long time. Why were these preparations so sluggish? If we compare the losses associated with the outbreak of this disease with those of Latvia and Lithuania in Estonia, we will see that Estonia has suffered clearly more, despite the fact that we had examples ahead and experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U31	Thank you, Honourable Asker! Certainly, the specific cases are emotionally very difficult for each farmer, and no possible financial measures that we have now developed can provide any relief here. If we look at the activities of the Estonian state, the action of the Estonian state in this bureaucratic and legislative key was agreed with the European Commission and in cooperation with the other Baltic States and Poland. This agreement sets out possible measures to combat the disease. This plan has been a fulfillment for us, but the experience we have had since the first cases has given me, as Minister for Rural Affairs, additional knowledge of what we should change quickly. Yes, indeed, if we compare absolute numbers and take note that more than 22000 pigs have been executed in Estonia by now, the picture is sad. But if we compare outbreaks, we must admit that there are twice as many outbreaks in Estonia as there are in Latvia. The clear difference is that our tables and farms are much larger ♪ in fact, the structure of our pig farming is quite different. And it would probably be a little different in Latvia if, in geographical terms, the plague had spread the other way around. Well, I guess it's the happiness of some people and the misfortune of others, but of course I don't dare say that someone feels very happy about this disease. When I look at the changes that we have made to combat the disease, during my short period of ministering, we have doubled the biosecurity requirements, not only supplemented and tightened it up and left it all to the operators, but we have very quickly opened up a package of support measures to comply with the biosecurity requirements by negotiating further with the European Commission. When I met with scientists at the Ministry of Rural Affairs, I was assured that fulfilling the biosecurity requirements and taking into account each nuance is a basic assumption that the disease will not enter unspoiled pig farms. But everything that concerns our feral pig population is equally important, because the risk of getting disease from the forest to the farm is extremely high due to the means of transport and other human activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U32	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U33	Thank you. As we know, the stocks of the Estonian state during the crisis are virtually non-existent. Now, as you have confirmed, over 22,000 entire pigs have been destroyed. However, whole meat of feral pigs may be used. I ask you this: if the swine plague is safe for humans, why have healthy pigs been destroyed instead of putting their meat into use and even supplementing the state's emergency reserves with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U34	Thank you, Honourable Asker! Here we actually rely on expert guidance as far as we have that knowledge. We would be very happy if we had a vaccine against African swine fever, but scientists have not been able to develop it for even a few decades. As far as so-called healthy pigs are concerned, experience so far in Estonia has shown that the clinical picture may not immediately show the plague. It is extremely important to know that in a specific place where the plague has been detected, 99.9% are likely to be affected by all pigs. If you remember, at least one case of disease was detected in Estonia during a routine inspection. This means that we have not limited ourselves to monitoring pigs, nor do they have signs of loss of appetite or sluggishness or anything, but we are constantly monitoring very closely in all farms. There are very clear procedures for this. If I'm not mistaken, at least 20 samples per 1,000 pigs will be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U35	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U36	Thank you. Good minister! You called back the Vireen Board of AS. The Vireen Council was obliged to take down the CEO of the Vireen, or you hoped they would. However, when the Council meeting had taken place, it turned out that the story of the mobile burner was much more complicated and the fictitious bill for its use was demanded by the Head of the Veterinary Office of Vireen, who in turn claimed that it was a 'political order'. And when it came out, it took a so-called sample beam. Did you call the council back because they didn't go along with the model store? And is this CEO's statement true?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U37	Honourable questioner, I wouldn't use the word "model" in this context. But what the Minister certainly cannot agree with is that the public is being whipped and lied to. In times of crisis, it is extremely important that the public receive information about the truth. Even when the members of the Council had to admit that the audit carried out by the Ministry of Rural Affairs proved one-to-one that there was no work on this burner and that the bill for this particular work was actually presented fictitiously, the Vireen leader maintained his words. In the current context, where we have to take serious decisions every day in a crisis, the criterion of truth is extremely important. The other aspect of the matter is that, as a citizen and as a person in office, the Vireen leader has always had the opportunity to make the right decisions even when an external force is trying to do the opposite. However, I have never noticed or heard that there was political pressure to present this particular bill. As a minister, it really does not make sense to me why it was necessary to cuff and not to say that this burner was not working. We called in a warranty specialist, and he fixed it. Why would it be necessary to continue lying for more than a week? I have said in the public, and I will also tell the honourable members of the Riigikogu today that when this burner was purchased, it was not purchased to be put to the exhibition or museum. With this burner, it was necessary to prove in any outbreak that he was capable of working. We have wanted to see what his return is not only on paper but also in real life. As a minister, I drew attention to this and asked repeatedly when this burner would start to work and show us its real performance. By the way, it has become clear today, not in the outbreak, but in the territory of Vireen, that the performance that is allowed on paper will not be achieved in real life. But in any case, this burner is needed for the Estonian state. We'd like it to work as much as he can.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U38	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U39	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. As we know, burning is the best method for controlling the plague, but the number of dead animals turned out to be so large that they could not be burned in time. The question, of course, is whether all the pigs on the farm had to be executed at the same time. But now these pig carcasses are buried in the earth, and it is unknown how the plague will behave in these places in the future. Wouldn't it be right to dig these pigs out of there and burn them with a mobile burner? Then, in the future, we could say that we have not caused unmistakable damage to nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U40	Honorable member of the Riigikogu! The whole point of buying-in has been linked to a situation that developed some time ago in third zones. The situation was that it was confirmed to us by the pig farmers, and we saw it ourselves, following the price information on part of the pig farmers turned the price of the meat to zero. This meant that the producer could not remove pigs from his farm. The main national objective of the measure was to take some of the pigs out of the market as there was no actual sales outlet. The second question concerns possible buying-in prices. I cannot agree that our only and main goal was to get the pork as cheap as possible. Given the current legislative space, we also have the opportunity to announce the purchase of pork specifically and those who are prepared to offer it at a certain price will be offered there. Only then will the country have the opportunity to make cans. If the legislator sees the possibility of amending the law, which I do not think can be done today, then we could follow different rules. However, it is not necessary to consider the measure in question as just one separate measure. We also bring to it that we are taking into account the price of meat obtained by producers in the so-called zone in the last quarter and now, after they have entered the zone. And we're going to compensate for that spread.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U41	§ 140 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act tells us that during enquiries a member of the Riigikogu can ask an oral question. Henn Põllamaas and Martin Helme have taken advantage of this opportunity. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U42	Thank you. Mr. Minister! The farmers said today at a demonstration on this field that they had two major problems. Firstly, the state, after all, meant the government, and secondly, the plague. What do you think if a year ago, if we had a swine plague in Latvia and not yet, the previous government and the previous minister had done more seriously to prevent the disease, would we be in a better situation now or could we have done nothing smarter? Do you think that at least at the beginning of this year, when the government was already put together, you could have done more preventive work? Would we have had a different situation today?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U43	Honourable questioner! It is very difficult for me to evaluate decisions taken a year ago. When I look at the decisions of our legislator on how this disease should be combated and how it was agreed at European level, it can be said that this plan has been followed. The second question is whether we reacted quickly enough and correctly to one nuance or another from the moment the swine plague reached our farms. Certainly, as scientists have said, there are two most important measures: the biosecurity requirements must be met and the population of pigs in the forest must be reduced. If we look at the experience that exists elsewhere in Europe, that was also one of the reasons why I wanted to meet scientists, it has become clear that every particular case needs to be monitored in order to find more nuances and to come up with additional ways to combat this disease. Unfortunately, very single solutions do not exist in the European Union. Now I think the important question is whether we can learn from experience. I have also said this in public that one of the reasons why I called the county elders into the ministry was to announce that, although the law does not oblige the county disease control committee to meet before the outbreak of the disease, I think it is essential that these committees meet before the plague has reached one county or another. Mechanisms must be put in place to enable a rapid response. As far as damage is concerned, there are two types of damage. One is to execute pigs in accordance with the requirements. The second is the damage that must be suffered as a result of market failures. If the price of pig meat produced in the zone falls, direct or indirect losses will arise for a particular undertaking. It is therefore extremely important that we have requested the European Union to compensate for these price decreases. Now the question of what will happen in the future. To my surprise, pig farming is a sector for which no strategy has been drawn up. Indeed, everyone talks a great deal about the fact that we have 2,000 pigs executed. There were 370,000 pigs in Estonia at the beginning of this year, and now there are less than 350000 pigs and this figure has also decreased because pigs have been killed. In my proposal, a working group has been convened to deal with the strategy, not only with a good time strategy, but also with a crisis strategy on how the sector could react in cooperation with the country when such situations arise. In the future, there may also be market failures without one or the other country being hit by a plague. And it must now be acknowledged that our farmers, who have been good and able to produce more than the Estonian people need, do not receive enough money for their production to cover their production costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U44	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U45	Thank you! Mr. Minister! You mentioned earlier that our herds of pigs are much bigger than those of Latvia. Our cow herds are also the largest in Europe, but we are sending milk to Lithuania. Has the existence of large herds of pigs and cows not only narrowed down our rural geography but also increased the damage to the disease? As an example of the current situation, perhaps this can be concluded? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U46	Thank you, Honourable Asker. In order to respond better, I would like to address a few aspects. A certain discussion has arisen in society as a result of the crisis and it has been suggested that perhaps we should return to a situation where there are between five and ten pigs on our farms. I certainly do not think it would be extremely nice to have thousands of bars in Estonia. I don't think this is the way out. For a very simple reason. If we look at Lithuanian farmers, for example, they are very fragmented small producers both in terms of ownership of the land and in terms of size of farms, and that is why the Lithuanian industry wants to buy milk from Estonia. Production efficiency in Estonia is very high. The Lithuanian dairy driver has made it clear to himself and thinks that if I go and take the milk from Estonia and bring the burden to Lithuania, I will still be back home four hours earlier if I had gotten to Lithuania by collecting this milk. It's a sign that efficiency is a very important thing. If our farmers weren't working efficiently, they'd be in a more difficult situation right now. All these European investments and co-financing, which the Estonian state has also done, have certainly been in the right direction. The second is the issue of cooperative activities. We must admit to ourselves that the cooperative movement in economic activity is not exactly what we have hoped for and what we would be satisfied with. I very much hope that it will be revived after the current situation. That is why we also have a measure that could allow one dairy industry to be established in Estonia, which could deserve more raw milk than is currently the case. However, one of our choices, the honourable questioner, was that we did not go this way, as some large producers demanded: we did not eliminate all small farms. We gave them the opportunity to continue with the measure and fulfil the conditions or exit the sector and receive support.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U47	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. For pigs killed due to swine fever, farmers are paid aid to compensate for the economic damage suffered. Please tell me how much they pay for a kilo of pigs they've killed. It is the sum actually held by farmers that is of interest. What is the difference between a farmer selling his pork in normal circumstances?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U49	It certainly depends on the individual undertaking. Why? In Estonia, the potential and capacity of pig farming is 100-109%. This means that when we talk about the consumption of pork in Estonia, there is something left over. In real life, imports into Estonia have been possible because part of our pig farming exports are related to live pigs. This production does not reach the food table of the Estonian people, and it is now necessary to compensate for this. When we talk about exports and prices of live pigs, they can now fluctuate from EUR 1 to EUR 1.20 or from 80 cents to EUR 1. Very much depends on a particular company. As far as the compensation mechanism is concerned, we have a very clear set of rules, which also sets maximum limits. In principle, this means that we will compensate up to 100% of the costs, depending on what is covered by the compensation. I have already mentioned that it may include destroyed feed, but of course, all so-called desos and biocleaning processes will be paid off. Before the infected barn can bring something back, it'll take months. The maximum limit set by the European Union is EUR 90 per 100 kilograms, plus an additional 5% for Estonia. Thus, the price is more or less 1.25 or 1.30 depending on the particular case. If we look at the purely statistical European pig meat price, it has fluctuated from 145 to 155 euros for 100 kilos, but it is structurally different again. For example, those who produce on a group basis, i.e. who have the entire production cycle from birth to meal of piglets, have not had a fall in prices as so-called "free pig farmers', whose production has no direct output, for example, in slaughterhouses and then as a product on the table. They are certainly in a more difficult situation, and if we bring in an additional measure that takes account of market failures, current practice shows that this support can reach up to EUR 30 to 35 per 100 kilograms. But this decision is always made once, it is made extraordinary, and it means that it will be agreed and given the right to pay the aid for a certain quantity and kilograms. 50% of this is paid by the European Union and 50% by the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U50	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U51	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned that at present, Estonian laws do not give pig farmers the option of buying up meat at a more favourable price. My question is whether the Ministry of Rural Affairs has not proposed to the government to find a certain amount from its reserve fund, as EUR 300000 was found to deal with refugees.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U52	The Minister for Rural Affairs took the decision of the government office, which resulted in EUR 1.8 million in support of the pig farming sector, so that we could buy pigs and make preserved pigs from them. We must take into account that, if we were to say the specific price in advance ourselves, this measure would certainly fall under State aid and would not be favourable or tolerant. We use different measures specifically for operators in the red zone, or the trade restrictions zone, to alleviate their situation and give them the opportunity to adapt. Of course, if our entire pig farming sector, along with our industries, consumed Estonian pork, we would not have this problem. But we have a free market, we have free trade, where every consumer, every business, makes its own decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U53	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U54	I find it difficult to answer because I asked the same question, but I did not get a credible answer there. Indeed, I have not received an answer that seems likely to me. What the crisis has certainly highlighted is that in certain situations, I don't know, people may have some fear. They fear the pressure of society. But how can you work in crisis situations if you are not honest with society? After all, the whole problem isn't just about being lied to. I have also been told that it was only EUR 6 000. I am telling you that even if this bill had been one euro, it should not have been submitted because this service was not provided. But I must say with sadness that the honourable Council did not understand this concern. Imagine a situation where someone says that the pigs were buried in the x-municipality, and after a week it turns out that they were actually buried in a different place. We cannot allow anything like this in this crisis, because we need to involve all parties in resolving the situation. If you have to take important decisions every day, it is extremely important to be sure that the information at your disposal is true. Take the same fact that the Vireen leader was very protective of the claim that within 20 hours it was possible to destroy 23 tons of pigs there. When we started this burner at one point, it was very clear that it would not be able to operate like this even under the most ideal conditions. Now, what if it turned out that we had another hotspot, and we did count on those claims? We would have gone there, and it would have turned out that this wasn't really how the burner works. Therefore, the truth must be told, and such wrestling is unacceptable. As a result, the Minister's response was also such.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U55	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister! I'm sure you're also familiar with Latvian methods, how they fought to get to the farms of the plague. Are there any differences between our methods and those of the Latvians? Could they have had tougher measures than we have, or quite the contrary?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U57	Honourable questioner! One of the methods that has been discussed during a period of time is the organisation of the hunting of the brain in the forest and by means of it the reduction of the pig population. Some experts have thought that as a result, infected wild boars reached the territory of Estonia more quickly. If we look at purely biosafety, some of the Latvians' current proposals have been taken over by our amendments. In general, however, their codes of conduct are based on the so-called disease control plan signed by the three Baltic States and Poland. These countries have the right to implement these measures and also to receive funding to implement them. It's a two-way question, isn't it? Firstly, the measures that can be used and, secondly, how they can be financed. As a result, there can be no very large geographical differences. When we look at the map of the plague and at Lithuania and Latvia, it is clear that the plague has spread there too. They only have more small farms, with the exception of one case in Lithuania, where 19,000 pigs had to be killed on one farm.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U58	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Now the Ministry of Agriculture has been renamed Ministry of Rural Affairs. Does this involve taking over certain tasks in the areas of forest, fish and hunting?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U60	Honourable questioner! We have proposed. For example, fisheries could be entirely under the Ministry of Rural Affairs. We're talking about it like two keys. If we go to the Council of Europe, there will occasionally be two ministers on the same subject. The thing is, once the fish is caught out of the water, it's a matter for the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and as long as it's in the water as a reserve, it's a matter for the Ministry of the Environment. This decision, or this agreement, should be made by next spring, it will also be included in the government's agenda. The second part of the question concerned rural areas in a broader sense. Yes, agriculture is statistically 4% of GDP, but if we look at the Estonian country at large, every job in agriculture is strategic. We have included our long-term objectives in the rural development plan. If one job in one farm is agricultural, the other one is either a supporting job or an urban job, it is already very good. Very good in the sense that if we compare purely statisticalally the urbanisation of the European Union and Estonia, we can say that our urbanisation has been clearly smaller. That should not make us calm and silence the existence of the problem. Some regional programmes are transferred to the Ministry of Rural Affairs, such as Peipsiveere and Setumaa programmes. So we really look at rural areas more widely than agricultural production alone, which obviously plays a more important role. Rural enterprise in general, however, is certainly much more extensive. Here we have contact points and the opportunity to cooperate with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. You can name the 'Young People' project back to Earth! ' and structural support for enterprises, such as the so-called last km support, whether in the form of an electric cable or other infrastructure object.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U61	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U62	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The Act on the entry into service of the storm landfill clearly mentions one point and is an environmental hazard and the need to check it. Along that side, the infected pigs were now buried in the plague. How is it guaranteed, and is it guaranteed that the ditches and rivers that are heading towards Peipsi will not be contaminated?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U63	Honourable questioner! This is where we have to rely on the expertise of the Ministry of the Environment. I can't take that responsibility. But knowing how the Environmental Board and the Ministry are looking for suitable places, it is clear that they will not be selected at any cost, but that these decisions will be considered very carefully, based on environmental risks. As I have already said, samples were taken from the wells there before they began to be buried, and regular monitoring is being carried out in the area. All the conditions arising from the structure of the soil are a prerequisite for no environmental pollution.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U64	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U65	As I said earlier, it was a surprise for me that this sector, specifically, does not have a development strategy. A great deal has been said in public about the dairy strategy, which states that Estonian milk production could be a million tonnes per year in 2020. At present, this figure is 750000 tonnes and maybe a little bit of it will fall. This strategy, too, does not, in my opinion, address or minimally address risk scenarios. This actually means that all strategies that are built on growth only have a little bit of clay feet. This would require a review of the Estonian dairy strategy. However, in the pig sector, my proposal has been to draw up a strategy based on today's knowledge and perspectives, which will also enable better management of action in potential crises. This task force will meet in the coming weeks. When I talk about pig farming, today, the most difficult situation is that of independent pig farmers and those producers who have been oriented towards the export of live pigs. There is now an additional risk of African swine fever. Those who use a kind of cooperative form and who have better access to the consumer thanks to their industries are in a slightly lighter situation. We also see this with our European Union partners in different sectors. Unfortunately, the Chinese markets have been in a downward trend for Europe and the Russian market has fallen away. Now it might rather happen that China is focusing on the Russian market. So there is little hope that this market will start to recover very quickly for us and will provide us with greater potential. That is why the Commission also stresses that we need to do more to promote sales in so-called third-country markets, or markets outside the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U66	Raivo Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U67	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We know that if a plague is detected on a pig farm somewhere, the eradication of this farm and the introduction of quarantine will be very strictly regulated. Economic activities, including pig farming, must not be promoted there at any time. Now, if there's such a situation that a hunter shoots a boar and a hunter happens to be a farmer, either a farmer or a farmer, where he keeps the pig, he takes it home. After that, the blood will be subjected to a compulsory blood test, and if it proves positive, i.e. if the boar shows signs of fever, what will happen to this farmer? If he grows feed crops, or if he has any livestock, will they all go to liquidation? And what about marketing?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U68	Honourable questioner! You very vividly described a very high risk for a person who goes home from the forest. The hunter must be a pretty frequent mover on this trajectory. It has to be said that some hunters have established the principle that the clothes with which they hunt do not go anywhere else. We, too, have announced that this is a major risk. If it is not possible to avoid going into the forest, you will not be able to rush directly from the forest to your own farm, to your acquaintances or to anyone else's pig farm. Before that, the so-called 'deso-boundary' must be completed. Before going to a pig farm in the first place, the threat must be clearly eliminated. The second risk relates to feed and so on. We have tightened up the biosecurity requirements relating to both bedding and feed, especially the grass feed process. In the summer, when different crops are ripening in the field, it is a very large source of risk. Therefore, different guarantees have been introduced from 30 to 90 days in order to bring the risk to zero or zero.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U69	Maire Aunaste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U70	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, You said that for the new year you have applied for EUR 21.5 million in support of farmers. I think it's called top-up or something. My question concerns today. Today Estonian farmers drove here to Toompea, moving their machines from Tartu to the capital with a speed of 20 to 30 kilometres per hour. In doing so, they gave the Estonian people a very serious message. Urmas, what do you think, is this message serious enough, so not only will the people of Estonia remember this action by farmers on 14 September 2015 but that the government is really prepared to give the 21 and half million euros that you are willing to give to farmers? Does this request say yes? This should be done before the first refugees cross the Estonian border. Otherwise, we can hide the flowers behind our backs and leave them to the refugees...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U71	One minute to ask a question, good Maire Aunaste.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U72	... happily not to return.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U73	Honourable questioner! In the budgetary process, this request will probably be decided more quickly than by 1 January next year. I hope that the Riigikogu will also be able to process the budget very quickly and constructively. That's one. Secondly, the message of the farmers has certainly arrived. And it would be good if this message had an effect in the people's basket. As consumers, we could all buy more Estonian food and make our choices based on the fact that farmers are able to generate additional sources of income thanks to them. Thirdly, much has to do with our other aid measures. Yes, indeed, it was said in this meeting that for two years the Estonian state has not, as if, allocated an additional euro to help farmers. But this 1.8 million may also be a sign that the government is thinking a little differently today than it has in the past. I assure you that both the current Head of Government and the previous Prime Ministers have taken action to ensure that our support in the European Union will not be 30%, 40% or 50% of the European Union average, but will reach 75% by the end of the period. And today we are working to ensure that the support for the Estonian farmer is 100% of the European Union average.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U74	There are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Since I cannot see the questioners' wish to participate in the negotiations, I will give the floor to Siret Kotka. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U75	Ladies and gentlemen, who are still in this Chamber! I want to talk today about the role that AS Vireen has played. When you look at the Estonian media, it is mostly the impression that AS Vireen is the company of the Estonian state, whose change of manager would solve all problems and the spread of the plague would stop immediately in Estonia. I went to Vireen with my colleague from the Committee on Rural Affairs, Martin Repinski, on the spot, and we were there on 26 August at the very moment the minister called there for the first time in his life and communicated with the Director of Vireen, Persidski. At least that's what he said. And at that point, the minister on the phone told Persidski that basically let him prepare to resign. I want to talk about what Vireen AS does. The company's only big task is to dismantle the carcasses. The carcasses will be brought there and disposed of. Or it is done with a burner that is transported along Estonia. Now the minister has made such a move and has given the entire Estonian public the impression that if the management of AS Vireen is replaced, the whole problem has been solved. Actually, it's a long way from that. When I was there, I told my colleague Martin Repinski that Minister Kruuse would most likely take down Persidski. And that's not because he may have made a small change of account, which was undoubtedly incorrect or correct, but because he belongs to the IRL. It is no secret that the previous minister, Padar, did not have time to remove Persidski, the head of Vireen, from the IRL. Actually, the dog is buried there. In the Vireen Council, established by the former Minister Seeder, there was an overwhelming support group for the IRL children. And now it was very easy to get rid of Persidski and to replace the Council. These are simple political games that actually do not solve in any way the task of reducing the spread of swine fever in Estonia or, in other words, to save the rearing of pigs in Estonia. They deal with demonstration activities, sample beams. Instead, the Minister could make a real proposal for clothing to convene a crisis committee at national level and resolve the problem in Estonia as a whole. We are seeing very clearly today how different problems plague different counties. We can see very clearly that people do not really know how to behave under the conditions of the plague. It needs a coherent and concrete management effort. In a strange way, however, the clothing government is simply looking at it. The fact that there is a lack of action by the government in combating swine plague is also claimed by pig farmers. They are left alone with their problem. We have 22000 pigs executed today, a little over 600 in Latvia. We've killed 22000 pigs in a month, the Latvians have only killed 600 in a year and a half. This shows very clearly that the Estonian Government does not take the fight against swine plague seriously enough, just watching Estonian pig farming be destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U76	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I didn't understand your answer well. It seems to me that the country has been sloppy, sloppy, hasty, reckless in the fight against the swine plague. But maybe there's no point in talking about it. Big mistakes and unforgivable mistakes have been made. But here's what I'm asking you. You mentioned that there is no strategic development plan for pig farming at all. Who and when will it be prepared, and what will be its emphasis?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U78	Honourable questioner! I have already mentioned in my answers that we will receive environmental expertise from the Environmental Board through the Ministry of the Environment, and this expertise is extremely important to us. As far as possible options are concerned, it must be acknowledged that even finding one burial place in any county is not very easy, precisely because of the risks involved. These specific places, where the experts are buried, confirm that they meet the requirements and that no complications or environmental defects occur. What have the specialists said about your proposed excavation? They have said very clearly that if these carcasses were to be dug up for any reason, there could be a risk of certain chlorine compounds, which is clearly greater than any other risk. I don't dare argue with the experts here. But this question has also been asked at the meetings where we have been, and scientists and other experts have answered that way. As a result, I dare say that digging up carcasses in an environment where they are also covered with chlorine lime is clearly excluded. But I certainly share the view of the author that these risks must be minimised. Therefore, prior environmental monitoring was carried out at burial sites. There are also samples of wells, and the quality of water will be monitored regularly in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U79	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U80	Dear Minister, I visited the Vireen factory those days and heard interesting remarks. I'd like to ask if you're familiar with this. It was explained to me that gasping the entire table at once is not supposed to be the most sensible thing to do, especially when it comes to large barns and large quantities that will have to be used later. The second thing is that as a result of gasification, the pig meats start to get worse much faster, i.e. they need to be treated much faster than pigs that have otherwise died. Are you familiar with these things? After all, the plague can reach larger hogs, which can lead to much larger amounts that need to be disposed of.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U81	Yes, honourable member of the Riigikogu, I am familiar with these issues. I very much hope that these future cases, if any, will not be so cataphasic that we will have to deal with the elimination of the 50 000 head herds. But to be clear, the execution of pigs through gasification has actually been carried out gradually, the quantities have been divided, as far as possible. In the case of sows, for example, this is extremely problematic, both practically and emotionally. Getting the sows out of their feathers after the execution is more than problematic. That's one half of it. The other side is that, in each particular case, the team of the Regional Veterinary Office assesses the stages at which the execution can be divided. If we take the last cases, the work was done within days. What's against it? Why can't we do this every time? One particular case could be described emotionally about the fact that once we go through one farm door, the plague begins to move to the other end of the farm. You won't be able to close the door until death is on the other side. Mass death can begin so suddenly that it cannot be avoided. These are very complicated questions. That's why people on some farms also need psychological help to get out of it. We are trying to be rationally flexible and humane and to take all aspects into account. If we're still talking about Vireen's abilities, if there's ever a greater need to take pigs to Vireen, maybe there's another way. Perhaps our everyday, ordinary waste can be diverted to the processing of Lithuanian colleagues. This is also the reason why we are discussing the possibility of transferring a mobile burner to Saaremaa, so that it can work stationaryly there and take part in this work.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U82	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U83	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! It is known that the European Commission has decided to provide exceptional support to European farmers with EUR 500 million. It should now be clear in the coming days how much of this will become Estonian farmers. Given that agriculture in the Baltic countries is clearly in crisis today, is there hope that we will be treated differently under this programme?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U84	When I joined the ministerial office, I started working with my Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues in the first few weeks and with Polish colleagues in the pig farming sector to signal our concerns and reach the goal of the European Commission supporting the Baltic farmers. There were two very specific reasons for this. The first was that the price of milk has been under pressure for almost a year for the Baltics, mainly because of the Russian market. Other countries in Europe have now reached this point. Another concern relates to a swine plague. These proposals, which we made last week at the Council meeting, where I was present, were all under discussion and were also dealt with by the Vice-President of the European Commission. This 500-million package is clearly the Baltics' winnings, I mean, it even came up on the table. We were hoping that the content of this package would be on the table in exactly the size of each envelope already last week, but it would probably be put on the table tomorrow at the informal meeting where ministers will meet. I should have been there today, but because of the farmers' meeting, I'm here in front of you. Tomorrow morning, I'm going to Luxembourg, and that's the subject on the table. This does not preclude the immediate meeting of the extraordinary Council. All the assumptions that we will receive support from there are there. And the fact that the Baltics are being given proportionally more support there than the others is more likely today than yesterday.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U85	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. As I understand it, the Estonian Government has committed itself to buying pig farmers who are in the red zone at the lowest possible price, i.e. at a lower offer. Doesn't it seem to you that you're pushing a struggling farmer into even greater trouble? In fact, it doesn't help a farmer in the red zone to survive.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, people are very scared. I went to meet people in the Storm on Friday. They're afraid our pork production will be destroyed, but without pork, our people can't live. What we eat is asked. If the price rises in the coming years, as production decreases, people will ask what we put on the table. This is one of the people's fundamental questions. People don't believe in the state or the government, they don't believe in ministers. After all, the Minister of the Environment is directly involved in the burial of pigs, and he has said that groundwater pollution will be minimal. It's a strange saying, isn't it? The ministers of the previous government have also done nothing to prevent the explosive expansion of the plague. I'm gonna bring in another milk crisis. This is just as serious, and it was raised even more acutely in Stormas. No new markets have been created, ministers will be replaced and replaced. Really, emotions were very high, even laughed, fought, ironized. All this together, how they handled dead pigs near Storma and Blackwater, how they were transported and buried in bulk, and actually lied about it all, on the one hand, tragic, but on the other hand, it's just depressing. Who, after all, allowed pigs to be buried outside the landfill where no water was collected? Who bears the responsibility? We don't know. Yeah, it was all about Vireen. I'll ask you what's going on. For example, Kruuda buys its milk powder raw material from Germany, our biggest trading chains sell foreign pork, while their farmers are in trouble. The Prime Minister answers that a businessman has the right to buy raw materials wherever he wants. Nobody's told me if we really have to destroy everything, even the sick domestics, to gas them. Smaller producer pig owners are absolutely certain that this attack will be organised against them in order to reduce competition. We know that small farmers aren't even interested in selling new pigs anymore. Totally serious problem again. By the way, the Food and Veterinary Office has recognised that the explosive spread of swine plague in Estonia makes no sense at all. They ask, for example, how the swine plague entered the Voore farm, where very strict requirements were observed and biosecurity measures were applied. All of this hasn't really been studied. We still have the wild boars, but the swine plague is decreasing. There have been no new cases. The question arises as to whether the wild boars did not spread the plague. Inevitably, such questions arise. But if we want to destroy another 30,000 boars, I do not know if there are so many in Estonia, then, of course, the problem that has been mentioned several times today remains: we only have this one laboratory in Tartu. The Estonian Express also highlighted this concern. The Minister said that more people would be put to work and something would be expanded, but imagine the burden that will be there. After all, the blood samples of every dead pig must be taken and the answers sent out. And the pigs can't be kept long, they might get bad, they need to be bought in. There are many questions, and there is now such an impression that there has been irreparable damage to Estonian farmers. We saw this tractor parade here in front of the Riigikogu today. That was the last cry of distress. But as a matter of fact, we don't see anyone wanting to take responsibility. Yet the government must do so. Think of the destruction that has actually taken place! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U88	Thank you. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U89	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. A little more than a year ago, practically a new hunting law was passed. Today it can be said that there is a balance in the relationship between hunters, farmers and landowners. However, with regard to African swine fever, the Ministry of the Environment has come up with a proposal to amend the hunting law, which could disrupt its balance. I mean, today we have to think about the future. I have this question for you: are you aware of what colleagues in the Ministry of the Environment are thinking? Are they proposing that we change the hunting law again?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U90	Honourable questioner! Of course I am aware of that, I have been involved in these discussions. And the reason for my participation has been very clearly linked to the abundance and population of wild boars. As I walk around Saaremaa and elsewhere in Estonia, I have not had a hundred percent conviction that the adopted Hunting Act meant consensus among all parties. Farmers have been very disturbed by the fact that the population of pigs has been very large. Losses per hectare have occasionally exceeded the limit of tolerance. I very much want different aspects to be considered when discussing this law here in the Riigikogu if a common language is to be found about reducing the population of feral pigs. Scientists and other experts have clearly said that this is one of the key issues. For example, Finns are concerned that they have 1,600 boars. You all know very well how many dozen times more boars there are in Estonia and how large the territory of Estonia is. This means that, in any case, our risks are very high. We want this plague to disappear from our forests as soon as possible. If we want it to disappear faster than in 20 years, one measure is to reduce the population of wild boar. Some good hunters say they can do it, others complain it's complicated. Well, there's the truth somewhere in the middle. As far as our ministry is concerned, we have already taken steps by the time the hunting of wild boars increases. This means that the laboratories will also start working on weekends, additional laboratory techniques will come in, and trained and qualified laboratories will be employed to provide this service and give it to the consumer, I stress, above all to the consumer, the certainty that no plague infected pigs will be brought to his table.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U91	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In the next financial year, has the Ministry of Rural Affairs planned to pay farmers the top-up on the same basis as in our closest neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U93	The Minister for Rural Affairs has submitted a proposal for transitional payments of EUR 21.5 million in a budget application from the Ministry of Rural Affairs. These negotiations are ongoing, and I hope that more positive messages will come in this light than today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U94	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Today, the Committee on the Environment was together, who was really working on the amendment of the Hunting Act. I'd like to move on with that wild animal science. As far as hunters are concerned, it is safe to say that more has been hunted than there have been limits. But the main problem is, in fact, the laboratory mathematics that you mentioned. As we know, there is only one laboratory in Estonia where it is possible to analyse these blood samples and find out whether a particular animal had a plague or not. Of course, storage conditions and everything else associated with the restriction of the spread of the plague are also important. But my question is specifically whether these laboratories will come to Estonia or whether only this laboratory will remain in Tartu. How can this work be organised? This is, in fact, a very important issue, also seen by hunters.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U96	Honourable questioner! According to current knowledge, such a laboratory does not come into another region based on its high level of expertise and other possibilities. It's today's knowledge. As regards the possibility of sending samples from all over Estonia, it is organised. There are some nuances as to why the system still needs to be developed. If we have an increase in the number of refrigerators, we can take the storage problem off the agenda. And in the autumn and winter, of course, there will be an additional opportunity due to climatic conditions outside. In summer there are more special conditions in this sense. I would also like to say that if we are talking about additional hunting of more than 10%, it is certainly not yet a sign that we should increase our capabilities several times. But I'm sure that the lab is doing twice as many tests as it was yesterday, even under these conditions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U97	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have a question about the work of Vireen and the former leader. You have accused the former leader of lying to society and making false accounts. The fact that the invoices were wrong is true, but there are two main versions of this justification. One thing is that they were just overloaded, and that's why they were making the wrong bills. The second version, and as I understand it, is the version that you believe is that they lied deliberately. If it's really like that, if that's what you think it is, why do you think they did it? What were they hoping to win?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U99	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I wrote an article in the paper a few weeks ago, which I titled "Sigala and Behind." In this article, I came to a very fundamental problem that the swine plague has highlighted. I would like to point out immediately that it was a pleasure to hear in our debate on the Committee on Rural Affairs today that the impact of this article has also reached the Reform Party, which has come to the same conclusion as I did there. And this conclusion is that the so-called poor resolution of the current crisis or the lack of crisis management actually indicates that, in terms of 'broad-soil security', things are very serious about crisis management. As Igor Gräzin said in his jokes today: thank God that it is only a swine plague, that it is not a disease that directly affects people. It may be a cynical saying, but there's a grain of truth in it. This whole crisis has brought about a great deal of problems in terms of this very broad level of security. Who is still in charge of resolving the crisis? It's very good to see how the blame goes today. On one occasion, the minister rejects the responsibility of the county governor, who, as if on the ground, should be in charge of something. The mayor, however, rejects responsibility for the vet. The vet says, oh, no, the Minister of the Environment had to do it. I am such a convinced democrat in my soul, but in crisis management, very clear and strict chain of command and those responsible are necessary. And even in a cultural area such as film production, where there is a great deal to deal with crisis management, in principle there is one crisis to the other, there are very clear and strict management lines. Okay, there's a development plan on broad-based national defence, and it's being tried and implemented right now. But, in fact, within this framework, we should also certainly think that agriculture and, more generally, the whole rural area are, in a sense, our security guarantee, our rear. Every soldier knows that if the rear doesn't work, the front doesn't work. You may have a very well-prepared activity on the front line, but it will collapse when the rear is weak. Therefore, my very clear and stressed proposal is that rural areas should be treated more strategically. Its problems should be addressed specifically from the point of view of the security of our country and, within this framework, to practice crisis management separately. Today, even in the Committee on Rural Affairs, an example was given of how the Soviet civil protection system also led the eradication of foot-and-mouth disease in Estonia. Very strict checks were carried out on the presence of desomattes and on the implementation of other measures, and the disease was rapidly controlled. Today and before, I have asked the Minister several times why, for example, when going to Saaremaa, there are no desomattes and other such self-evident measures, not to mention such finer measures as the disinfection of the Foresters, which move from place to place on trailers. Finally, crisis management and rural areas, as our backing, need to be highlighted, and not only highlighted, but also addressed seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U100	Thank you. Colleague Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear that our government has completely failed to contain the swine plague. After all, we had a year to prepare for the plague to come to Estonia. The plague does not move from Latvia to Tallinn immediately. When we look at the interactive map published by Postimees, we see that the plague moved away from the border by point to inland, but nothing substantive was done. There's a lot of talk here about desomats, closing roads. I have not actually noticed in Estonia that there is at least a tablet up there, that it is a plague area and that here please do not walk. I had a specific encounter with a swine plague this summer because there is a hunting tower in the forest near my father's home, next to which there is a so-called feeding area. I like walking dogs in the woods. The first time I smelled a strong body, I went back into the woods without dogs. There wasn't much to go on, I found an end to a wild boar and I called the Veterinary and Food Board. The next day, I was quickly informed that this pig is the plague dead. In fact, there were three pigs dead from the plague in this small area. A month later, I went there to walk, and then there were a couple of carcasses that had been cleaned of the flesh, and then there were only bones and bones. Where did that meat go? The infected meat of Plague was distributed throughout Estonia either with animals or with birds. People went there on berries and mushrooms. But there was no warning on this side of the road that you were in the plague zone. We could have politely informed the villagers that there was a plague area next to your village and don't go there. Sometimes people wouldn't have gone. Or you could have published a message in the paper and told people that way. I don't think anyone did it. Well, he is, but he's gonna pass, which we're still working on. The fact that we later began to fence hogs is not a solution. A wild boar doesn't go to the usual pigsty he's got in there. In particular, those places where infected pigs were found should have been disinfected, somehow restricted, tried to reduce the number of pigs, etc. Perhaps special brigades should have been formed who would have combed the woods and buried the carcasses very correctly. Let's face it, burying a shovel is relatively difficult because you have to bury it deep. There should have been some little excavator for that. They didn't do all the work. I've been talking to farmers, and it's no secret that they've discovered the plague during the harvest of dead pigs, during the harvest of corn. The plague is actually full of Estonia and no one has dealt with it specifically. Estonia had a very good opportunity to put a strong brake on the disease, because geographically our location is such that, if you look from Latvia, there is water on one side and there is water on the other side: there is Riga Bay and Lake Peipsi. Couldn't we have created one of those zones between them where we could have braked the pig disease quickly? Desomatites, roadblocks, etc. But nothing has been done, because only the consequences will be fought. The Latvian state contributed EUR 5 million to prevention and other work, and the result is that Latvia has managed to do so, that only 600 domestic people have been killed. We've killed 22,000 domestics. Combating the consequences will cost the taxpayers of the Estonian state more than once. Restrictive zones are putting more effort on farmers. I say that if the government doesn't act operationally now and the farmers don't get a hand, the consequences are pretty sad. Something must be done very quickly. I say that this is not the solution, if you tell the pig farmers to listen, get out of the sector, you will receive support. Who, then, will feed the people of Estonia in the future? An Estonian person wants to eat domestic pork in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U102	Thank you. And now, please, colleague of the speaker's desk, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U103	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, who are still in the Chamber! The swine plague has ruthlessly exposed the nature of our country. The swine plague has ruthlessly exposed the fact that we cannot manage this country under the current government. The swine plague has mercilessly revealed that we are doing superbly, overly ambitiously everything that we are being told in Brussels. If Brussels had written now: 'Aha, you have a swine plague! You must have desomat everywhere, you must all walk around in marlin masks, you must wash your hands all seven times a day, and the children must show at school that their nails are clean and their heads are combed! ', then believe me, our government will stand as one man for all these measures to be implemented and more. We'd be more religious than the Pope. However, since some remote Boreal province in Brussels with its swine plague is not a particular problem, it is not all that. There are no command boards, and we are helpless as a child in the dark forest. And what is more: this crisis has ruthlessly revealed how reckless the Estonian government is against our own people. The farmers' demonstration today was a desperation. It was a scream: 'People, understand there on Toompea, Estonia's agriculture will be destroyed! The countryside will be destroyed, the income will be lost, the farms and farms will shut the doors and the schools will shut the doors! Come to your senses, find that little money! " We will find it because it is politically correct again, so say the command boards. We find 300,000 for those so-called refugees who are actually predominantly looking for a good life, young men who should fight for their families and homes in their own country. We'll find the money for them. We train supporters, we find apartments for them, we pay for their studies in Estonian, and I don't know what else, because that's what we've been told. That's what we do. But to his farmer, who in distress yells, "Governance, help us! ', we will find nothing but a certain pahazuha. It's a ruthless tearing off the mask of how reckless and incompetent and helpless we are. And when a gentleman in Kadriorg said he was embarrassed, I say I'm embarrassed too. Gentlemen and ladies! We also have two government members here. Please, don't leave Urmas Kruus alone in this trouble! Help him because the future of Estonia is at stake now more than on the issue of refugees. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U104	Thank you. Please, Mr Rein Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U105	Mr President! Honourable Riigikogu! Unfortunately, I did not receive an answer to my question, which I asked the Minister for Rural Affairs who replied to the inquiry. But that's it. I heard something completely different in this so-called answer. I heard that large herds of pigs and cattle, and we also put large areas of cultivation and harvesting, are very good and very effective, and this has to be taken into account. I remember this time well, and perhaps many of you will remember, or at least have read, that the way of the kolkhoz was meant to be the only right way in Estonian agriculture. Big farms are efficient, leading life forward. Small farmers with their relatively or absolutely small farms are no good at all. That's why it's just joint farms, big farms. So now. We have, as I mentioned in my question, the largest dairy herds in Europe. But for some reason, especially from South Estonia, Lithuanian tanker cars are busily transporting our large herds of milk to Lithuania, where the dairy herds are small. It is also in Latvia. Mr Kruuse explained that Latvia was able to escape the consequences of the disease because they have small herds of pigs and there are a lot of pig farms, much more than we do. We have great and powerful and effective. The essence of my question was whether the large herds of pigs and dairy have not, on the one hand, weakened our rural area. The rural areas of Latvia and Lithuania have been better maintained thanks to these inefficient small herds. Has it not now become apparent that the higher the risk of disease, the greater the risk of disease? Wisdom in hindsight is good wisdom, very good wisdom. Only wise people can apply it at all levels. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U106	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiation, so I will stop answering the first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U107	Let's go to another question. This is an inquiry for a collective appeal by members of the Riigikogu Jüri Adams, Andres Herkel, Andres Ammas, Külliki Kübarsep, Monika Haukanõmme, Artur Talvik, Krista Aru and Ain Lutsep on 29 April 2015 'Stop Overfeeding parties! 'about. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U108	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu and ministers! Eight members of the Free Party have indeed submitted an inquiry into this appeal, which was the first time that a sort of collective appeal mechanism was used. Namely, if at least a thousand signatures have been collected, it is possible to appeal to the Riigikogu to settle the matter here. Let me remind you that the content of this collective appeal was to halve the public funding of political parties. These allocations would in future be dedicated, which they are not currently, unfortunately, and would also include a component of local elections, i.e. local electoral alliances, it would also be fair to have some kind of money-sharing mechanism in place when such money is already distributed. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs dealt with this issue as hot potatoes for quite a long time and in two formations, concluding at the end of April that the problem raised in the appeal must be resolved by other means. In fact, the law provides an opportunity not to bring a bill to the hall and not to initiate a debate on a matter of national importance, but to have this vague 'in other ways' as an opportunity in the law. I think it was quite offensive to the 4,000 people who had brought such a referral to the Riigikogu. We learned that it will continue to be dealt with in accordance with point 4.29 of the Coalition Agreement by the Minister of Justice, to whom we have now submitted an inquiry. This point in the coalition agreement says: 'We are harmonising electoral laws and analysing ways of stimulating political competition (including maximum advertising costs, bail-out, state-owned institution and proportion of electoral circles). We are seeking consensus on the introduction of changes. ' We have such a feeling that this wording is very indirectly linked to a collective appeal, if at all, perhaps such a failure by the Riigikogu and the transfer of the problem to the Minister of Justice is misleading in its substance. However, we asked the Minister of Justice about this and we hope that he will reject this opinion when he comes here to answer the questions. We want to know on the basis of what plan and how the Ministry of Justice will resolve the problems raised in the appeal and what steps it intends to take to change the law of the party and to equalise the conditions of competition. We are curious whether the Minister considers the inequality that prevailed during the 2015 electoral campaign to be fair when a party that had entered the full list received substantial support from the state budget, but some did not receive it at all. To what extent could ignoring these problems in coalition talks also have been linked to the fact that almost all coalition parties are guided by the fact that an election campaign at the expense of the future, to do so in debt and to cash this money back from the national budget allocation? We want to find out what this point in the coalition agreement means, how changes will be made and how it will overwhelm the content of this appeal, which, I hope, is familiar and understandable to the Minister of Justice. Finally, we have to say that we are deeply convinced that this continuation of unfair funding and the suppression of political competition cause people to be distrusted by a country as one that is not good for our future and security situation. We ask you to answer all these questions and build a link here that we didn't see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U109	Thank you. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice of the Speaker's Office, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U110	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs! This link must be created because this task has been entrusted by the legislator to the Ministry of Justice through the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It can't be any other way. In the work plan of the Government of the Republic, the Ministry of Justice has the task of carrying out an analysis and making proposals on the regulation of the political system, including political advertising. The deadline is December 2015. The Honored Enquiry has already pointed out the tasks in the Coalition Agreement concerning the setting of a cap on election costs and other issues. In April this year, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs sent the Ministry of Justice a public petition on the reduction of the funding of political parties, together with additional material. It is also an input that must be reflected in this problem, and it cannot be otherwise. In fact, this mission statement contained in the coalition agreement expanded. That's right. I can assure you that I have carefully read both these additional materials and the petition together with the explanatory statement prepared by Mr Adams. Your second question is what steps the Ministry of Justice intends to take to amend existing party law. I think that there are a number of important factors that must be taken into account as the starting point for this task. First of all, in the light of whether the law or the meaning of the law works in the Estonian state, I think the question of principle is how to eliminate the absurd scheme that works in the Centre Party for election expenses made through Tallinn City Government. Let's look at things in perspective. The state budget allocation for all political forces is 5.4 million euros. The criticism of petitioners is that this is an excessive amount. Tallinn's media expenditure has increased in 10 years from EUR 400000 to EUR 10 million this year. We have a number of cases where supervisory authorities, both the National Audit Office and the Political Financing Supervisory Commission, have identified at least part of the use of this money for the purposes of the electoral campaign. Therefore, order must finally be established in this transfer scheme. The second issue here concerns the reduction of campaign demand. I will respond to this later, but I fully support this initiative, which concerns reducing demand for specific types of campaigns and restricting them. Thirdly, strengthening supervision. I am of the opinion that we must be prepared to give additional powers to the Committee on Financing of Political Parties. I also think it is necessary to discuss seriously what these actions or activities should be subject to greater transparency in society. I read carefully a few days ago in Re:Baltica a study by Baltic journalists that over 40 Russian-funded NGOs are operating in the Baltic States, defending the interests of the Kremlin here. In total, according to authors, these organisations received at least EUR 1.5 million over a period of three years. The authors stress that this is a conservative calculation. For example, this amount does not reflect possible cash transfers and the financing of NGOs through Russian-friendly companies and private individuals. 'It is impossible to say the exact amount they receive from the Russian public funds because some of the recipients do not declare it in their annual reports,' the authors mentioned in the article another reason why it is difficult to say the exact amount. I quote another article:'According to Normunds Mežviets, Head of the Latvian Security Service, the aim of NGOs operating in the interests of the Kremlin in the Baltic States is to influence the public debate and society. 'They are used as agents for influencing information with the task of creating messages in society in favour of the interests of Russia' explained Mežviets. ' Therefore, by its very nature, this money is meant for information operations in the public space of Estonia, in order to influence policy in the interest of the Kremlin. Therefore, the funding of political parties is a security issue and we need to discuss openly in society how such secret spider networks would be openly visible. Fourthly, the system of allocating money from the state budget to political parties and the amount itself. The reduction of financial support is quite possible and was not denied by any coalition partner in the coalition negotiations, but it was pointed out that it is conditional on the ability to eliminate the problem of the Tallinn electoral campaign machine as well as to reduce demand pressure and strengthen supervision. The answer to the third question is whether it can be considered fair and fair to the competitive situation prevailing during the 2015 electoral campaign, in which some of the participants received and some did not receive support from the state budget. Indeed, the situation was different from all previous elections since the 1996 local elections, when public support was first implemented. According to point 185 of the OSCE and the Venice Commission's Guidelines, state funding must be allocated between political parties either in a completely equal manner or in proportion to the political party's election results or the level of proven support. The latter model is also used in Estonia. It is known that political parties who have collected at least 2% of the votes in the Riigikogu elections have the right to receive financial support afterwards. Compared to other countries both in Europe and elsewhere, a certain percentage of votes can be considered a rather classic prerequisite for obtaining public funding. The question of the threshold for the collection of votes has been analysed by the European Court of Human Rights, which in one case found that unequal treatment had a legal purpose in a particular case, i.e. the existence of a sufficiently large supporter to obtain public funding and the barrage was proportionate. In the European context, the 2% threshold should be considered as an average solution in the elections to the Riigikogu, given that in Europe, obtaining money is conditional on a range of 0.5 to 5% of the votes collected in the elections. However, it should be noted that, according to point 184 of the 2010 Political Party Regulation Guidelines of the OSCE and the Venice Commission, a pre-election financing system should be carefully considered when designing the allocation system, since only the post-election financing system can ensure that small, new or less prosperous parties are unable to compete effectively, so that the funding of the parties participating in the elections for the first time can also be considered. One way is to reduce their burden, for example by replacing all required bail with a requirement to collect a number of signatures. The fourth question is why the idea of reducing party funding and fairer distribution of money did not enter into the coalition agreement. Here I have to say that the chapter of the coalition agreement on democracy and Parliament is one of the few parts of the agreement which, in its entirety, remained as it was during the discussions between the four parties. The heirs have been informed as much as I have. In the debate at the time, both the problems I referred to and the need to limit campaign costs and effectively prevent the use of public funds sounded. It is true that the coalition agreement does not contain a separate decision on whether to make a specific change or plan a particular change in the state budget area. The fifth question concerns what it means to seek a consensus as described in the point of the Coalition Agreement on the introduction of changes. It is certainly important to have broad-based involvement in the proposals that change the political system, including dialogue with both the authors of this petition and the people who signed it. However, this consensus was specifically meant by the request that the political forces belonging to the coalition and the opposition reach common positions in the Riigikogu. It is clear that this cannot be a formal requirement for such decisions. As an excuse why no thing can be done, it is not possible to use the fact that no consensus was found. But the point is they're looking for a common ground between the opposition and the coalition. I recall from history that the same was done in 1994 when the new party law was discussed. Sixthly, what is the upper limit on advertising costs and would it reduce funding for political parties from the state budget? With regard to the ceiling on advertising costs, as I understand the Coalition Agreement, there are two fundamental options. Both are on the table and the choice must be made in the near future. It is either necessary to set an overall overall financial limit for all the expenses that a party may incur for a period of time, or to set limits on specific types of campaign expenditure. In the latter case, we have two options either to limit the types of expenditure to a financial amount or to restrict them in terms of physical volume. The last concrete example is the restriction of outdoor advertising during active election agitation. According to the General Assembly of the Supreme Court, it is established with the aim of increasing voting activity, increasing the quality of democratic debate, preventing manipulation of voters and reducing the share of money in achieving political power. All these objectives are, according to the General Assembly of the Supreme Court, included in the idea of strengthening democracy. The General Assembly of the Supreme Court stated that although the ban is in accordance with the Constitution, it does not mean that the Constitution requires such a ban. The Riigikogu is free to abolish the ban, to impose time, place and size restrictions on making political outdoor advertising, and also, I stress, to impose a ceiling on election expenses that would reduce the share of money in achieving political power on the one hand and, on the other hand, to ensure a level playing field for candidates in organising an election campaign. So we have one, though much controversy, but a real example of limitation exists. I am convinced that the introduction of a comprehensive financial ceiling or expenditure-by-type cap will certainly result in a reduction in demand for additional campaign tools. This can therefore be seen as a factor which, if introduced, would be an argument for the legislator in order to reduce possible public support for political parties. On the seventh question, it is claimed that the continuation of unfair funding of political parties and the suppression of political competition create distrust of the state as such. They ask how I appreciate this threat and what responsibility I see in my ministerial office in resolving this issue. I think that the most important source of disbelief is when the public sees that the state is unable to comply with its established rules on the funding of political parties. That is a problem in many respects now, and that is what I intend to deal with. Ambush also arises when the fundamental right of a party laid down in the Constitution is unduly restricted. This fundamental right provides for the freedom of establishment of political parties, the freedom to act, including programme, competition and funding. I intend to defend these freedoms as a minister. Speaking of the category of danger, there is a real risk that the funding of political parties as a channel will be used to bring the political power of the Republic of Estonia under the control of Russia. We certainly must not accept that. The foundations of party funding and changes to the system, which are proposed as very concrete ideas by this petition, must be seen as a whole. I intend, as I said, to present my views to the Riigikogu within this year's number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U111	Thank you, Minister. Members of the Riigikogu have questions for you. Please, my colleague Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We got a whole lot of answers, but not always the kind of questions we've been asking. We also have a representative on the kapo committee, and we are perfectly familiar with the National Audit Office's reviews that local governments have used money for non-target purposes before the elections. Rather, the question is why nothing has been done here. But I'm going to ask you very specifically. You're just delaying your answer, now it's going somewhere in December from September. When will the state budget funding of political parties be reduced? When will a clear target be assigned to this money? How do you feel about the need to support local electoral alliances as well? Immediately, in the case of local elections, it becomes a problem that some of the electoral subjects are once again preferred.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U113	Thank you. I think that, for example, if 50% of the state's contribution were to take into account the outcome of local elections and 50% of the national election, no matter how internally it is to account for the outcome of national elections, this would be an conceivable option. If I remember correctly, there was one proposal that was on the table in 2003, during the composition of Riigikogu X. At the time, it did not find sufficient political support. I certainly agree that it would be reasonable for Parliament to deal with the issues of the political party financing system concerning the forthcoming elections long enough before the specific elections and also to be able to shape the rules. The second question concerns this, as the inquisitor rightly said, why nothing has been done. But that's the question, if we have laws and their point is in place, but nothing has been done, these laws will not work. I think that's a problem. Let us put things in perspective: 10 million euros, as I said, are in this year's budget. When we are talking about protecting the legal order and ensuring that it works, I can see that this is definitely where it is my duty to act. As regards the specific question of when changes could have been made to the system of funding parties, as the initiators of the petition have set out to do, as I have understood in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it is my task to work through these issues and to offer my proposals and, of course, the question of the choice of the legislator is already a matter for the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U114	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, I am sorry if the question is a little personal. In the opinion of the heirs, one of the consequences of the excessive funding of political parties is that excessive electoral campaigns are being carried out, indebted to this end and subsequently covered by receipts from the state budget. In the run-up to the spring elections, the IRL made a pretty big and probably expensive campaign. It has been speculated in the media that the party had to take in debt to do so. As political party leader at the time, can you tell me how much this debt was? If you have the data, you may also tell me if this debt has already been reduced by today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U116	Thank you. I can say that the party has delayed the payment of expenditure in its election campaign, I mean payments to advertisers. Of course, we have paid these bills, and this graph is in place. This information is fully accessible to the public through the public data of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. It is clear that, in a competitive situation such as that provided for by the political parties' fighting logic, political parties are forced to use all legal means to make their message heard in society by fighting for their ideas and ideas in an election campaign. In my opinion, in order to reduce real demand in this competitive area, it is reasonable to analyse the situation and make choices regarding restrictions on types of campaign expenditure. Secondly, the mouse holes that make all this political competition very conditional or ridiculous should also be closed. I was referring to a specific case here, I was referring to Tallinn's finances.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U117	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U118	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The Conservative People's Party and the Free Party have put forward a rather similar proposal or draft law according to which the funding of political parties should be reduced by at least half. As a member of the government and leader of a coalition party, can you state clearly and specifically whether you personally support it? If you support it, when will we see moves in this direction in the Ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U119	Thank you. I support the idea of fundamental changes to the funding system for political parties. I support the fact that these important blocks or elements are not taken or taken apart from the things involved. I mentioned the triangle, the reduction of demand and compliance with the rules so that the rules laid down by the legislator actually work, in parallel to which it is quite reasonable and possible to discuss the changes in the system of public funding and the amounts. It does not make sense, it does not help us to find solutions, it creates new problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U120	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You've made references to the past and the future here and talked about the active activities of Russian intelligence on our hands. My question is, what will still be born in December 2015. You mentioned one of these deadlines, and that in connection with the analysis of the rules on political advertising. What does that mean, and what is the starting point? Why do you need it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U122	Thank you. The starting point is, as I mentioned earlier, that the political system needs to be developed and organised. Firstly, because there would be equal rules, i.e. the law would be enforced. Secondly, for democracy to function, the political system certainly needs to be analysed and the choices made to reduce the financial impact of electoral campaigns in political competition. Thirdly, this issue relates to the need to ensure that this public resource is not used in the electoral campaign. Fourthly, it is possible to make choices on the basis of these proposals concerning possible changes in the amount of money allocated from the state budget and the modification of this system. The petition also proposes a rather fundamental change so that parties should be strongly motivated to obtain private donations. Although the petition does not answer whether or not it could take place under the banner of allowing the donations of legal persons. But if we combine mechanically what the petition proposes as one idea, so that we, like the German system, have the financial support of the political parties in the state budget, in connection with private donations, it is certainly reasonable to analyse the effects of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U123	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! One of the most productive researchers and descriptors of the recent history of our internal policy Kalle Muuli, a member of the Riigikogu from your political party, who is not currently in the Chamber, says in his latest book about the idea that you were the outstanding man in Res Publica's election campaign who went from businessmen to the party asking for campaign money and promised them that if they did this time, they would not have to make such political contributions to political parties in the future. If this is true now, and I assume that this is true, then you were probably one of the most serious promises and a well-preceived people in Estonia's politics of that time. Let me get this straight. Your views have changed a lot since then, almost in the opposite direction. At the time, you were one of the builders of "state theft," corruption. Now you have realized that this was not quite the right way to go, and you would be happy to correct these past achievements in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U125	Thank you. With such terms and estimates, I think we should be more careful. But I suppose the reference to Mr. Muuli's book was accurate. Indeed, Res Publica's 2003 promise was that the donations of legal persons would be banned. That's what happened. I think that the ban on legal donations in Estonia has materialised by amendments to the party law at the beginning of 2004. It has been criticised as a possible situation contrary to the Constitution. European countries have so and so: in some countries it is allowed, in others it is not. But when it comes to the situation where donations from legal persons are allowed, but in parallel, support from the state budget is increasing, and so that it can be defined in something as hard as a good questioner who used the word'state theft' or 'corruption', I must say that my political experience is much smaller than that of a good questioner. I have to refer to those times when a good questioner took part in politics as a representative of the government coalition. I see a rapid increase in allocations in the state budget: indeed, in 1999 there were 8.4 million kroons, in 2000 there were 16 million kroons and in 2001 there were 20 million kroons. So this speed is remarkable and certainly there were certain reasons in their time. I'm a long way from tagging it with a state thief or a corrupt title.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U126	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I was very pleased to hear that you acknowledged the problems with funding political parties at all. Several previous speakers or questioners have wanted to learn more about your thinking about what could be changed. You said that this system should certainly be viewed in full, not by pulling out a single piece. My question is very short and very specific. There is not much time until December when the proposals should be finalised. Will the bill come to our table in December or at the latest in January? Unfortunately, I didn't quite understand what you were willing to change.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U128	Thank you. I'm going to repeat my starting point by doing this analysis. Firstly, the current rules on the funding of political parties, which have been established, must actually be complied with. The objective proposed by the legislator must be met. Secondly, the issue of setting maximum levels for campaign expenditure by type should be carefully examined. Thirdly, the model of public funding for political parties and its structure can only be seen together with the two previous aspects of the problem, this issue cannot be constructed separately. I understand that there is a temptation to take one element of the problem and say that others are not important or could be dealt with in any other way. It is my job to present a report to Parliament's Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposing a comprehensive solution. It will then be possible for the legislator to make its own choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U129	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U130	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I heard you say that we should discuss how electoral campaigns should be limited. What exactly do you mean by that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U131	Thank you. I was talking about the maximum cost of the election campaign. The word 'limitation' cannot, of course, extend to the freedom of the party's programme; it is not meant to restrict or censorship political positions. The freedom of the programme must be maintained by the parties. In this case, we were talking about the possibility, as practiced in different countries, of either setting a total cap on campaign expenditure by political forces over a given time cycle or setting a limit by type of campaign expenditure, once again either financially or in terms of volume. I am certainly not in any way concerned with this category of limitation relating to the substantive expression of political parties' honours or programme positions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U132	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! Why has the Minister of Justice responded to this appeal if it is not even under the direct competence of the Ministry of Justice, based on the wording of the coalition agreement? The problem is not so much legal as ethical. The political parties are overfunded from the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U134	Thank you. The Minister of Justice certainly considers it necessary to deal with important issues. These issues are important, they also concern the constitutional structure of the state, the basic rule of the state and the problems of state law. But if the specific practical motivation for the question was why I answer the question here, then the immediate incentive for this inquiry is, in fact, the desire of good questioners to get On the basis of my limited knowledge, I have tried to give them to those asking in good faith. At the same time, I would point out that it is true that, not in the focus of a specific, so-called 'total' budget allocation, these problems, which are to a certain extent interrelated, but also, in some respects, blacksmithed problems, i.e. the problems of regulation of the political system, were already the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice in the coalition agreement that had been put forward in the past, due to the government's work plan. That, then, is what I am dealing with on the basis of my best position of good faith.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U135	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Now I'm opening negotiations. My colleague Andres Ammas, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U136	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, In 2009, when the government and Riigikogu discussed budget cuts due to the economic crisis and a 7% overall cut was made, the social democrat Hannes Rum wrote in his blog that there were two sacred cows in Estonia: a song festival and the funding of political parties. It was only those two who didn't want to take the money back then. In this sacred cow's status, the funding of political parties remains today. It is amazing that even the four major political parties that belonged to the previous Riigikogu do not want to discuss this issue as it were. At the table of coalition negotiations, the topic was raised for a moment, but it was quickly brought to absurdity. The government's agenda doesn't give a shit. There is a vague wording in the coalition agreement that you have already heard a few times today. I very much hope that the proposals and drafts submitted by the Free Party and the EKRE will be discussed within a reasonable period of time, they will not be forgotten in the drawer, as has happened with unpleasant drafts in previous Riigikogu formations. In honour of the Socialists, in the summer they made at least one attempt to raise the issue of setting a limit on election costs in the coalition, but it quickly hit the wall of incomprehension of coalition partners. However, as far as the costaars are concerned, very many members of the Riigikogu realise that this problem is immoral, but they have so far remained in minority and things have not moved from place to place. Excursions into the past, 2003 and earlier have already been made here today. I want to do it, too. If we try to understand the logic at the time and continue the sequence given by the Minister, I would remind you that from 20 million parties were exponentially increased to 80 million and then returned to 60 million. If you analyse the reason for this leap, of course, this decision was a day of joy for the chairmen of the political parties, the secretary-general and all those involved in financing who no longer had to ask sponsors for the grant money, because this money came from the state calmly. I'm sure they wanted the best, hoped for transparency, cleanliness and clarity, but it went as usual. This decision began to be accompanied by phenomena that maybe had not been taken into account, but maybe I simply cannot think cynically, and yet it was taken into account that the following massive debts were to be settled, that campaigns were to be made in debt on account of the fact that, in the next four years, the budget will be used to pay off these debts. I suspect that no one has so far been able to explain convincingly why this amount has been given to fund political parties. This amount was then exactly as the effective and talented campaign manager of Res Publica had calculated how much money it took to pay Res Publical's debts. Today, this campaign debt has become massive and self-evident. In fact, in political life you can see a picture that is familiar with Estonian literature classics. Remember how the Bible page with Vestmann's own money used to marry Vestmann's daughter? It is now a situation where political parties buy the electorate, or taxpayer, with their own money, during the election campaign. Is it possible to get more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U137	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U138	We'd have a lot to discuss. The Free Party does not necessarily impose its own solutions. We could discuss how local elections can be financed from the state budget, which is the basis for funding and the cost of voting. We could discuss many things: how to limit electoral campaigns, whether the state could allocate equal air time to everyone on public television, or whether there is some other fair solution. There are many of these opportunities and, as far as I know, different solutions are being used in different countries. One thing is certain: there is no such over-financing in any democratic country as in Estonia. A good colleague, Jüri Adams, has rightly said that as long as the current system persists, it is not really fair for us to talk about free and equal elections, although we often like to emphasise our democratic nature. However, there was some benefit from the discussion of today's inquiry in this Chamber. I am pleased that the Minister of Justice referred to the analysis that the Government and the Ministry are facing. This gives a lot of hope, because I think that the analysis is a motto or a slogan of the current coalition of government. It's gonna be great for the coalition. Good luck to them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U139	Thank you. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U140	Mr President of the sitting! I will continue from the point where, in answering the Minister's question, I reminded you of the very old days. Indeed, in 2003, the State had full financial support for political parties and this year it was granted 20 million kroons. The parties used it to support their organisations and offices. As far as I can decide, it didn't cover the need at the time, so donations were collected. Indeed, in 2003 a major shift took place, in one year the grant was increased from EEK 20 million to EEK 60 million, a change since 2004. From then on, it rose to another 90 million, and a little bit fell during the depression. I'm sorry, good groupmate Andres Ammas, but you messed up the numbers! Finally, the annual amount was about 84 million kroons, or 5.4 million euros, and it has now remained at this level for quite a long time. During this period, when my health was worse, I had the opportunity, thanks to the Socialist Group, to present here in a separate debate on the funding of political parties in 2009. I am very grateful to current Minister Indrek Saare, former Minister Sven Mikser and the President of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor, who gave me this task at the time. Then it became clear to me that, in the meantime, things went quite wrong because there was a shift in quantity to quality, as has been the case with people who have spoken about dialectic philosophy. In fact, there was a lot of money and it could be used to finance future elections. In April of this year, I had the opportunity to participate in the negotiations on the establishment of a government coalition. There we presented various proposals as representatives of the Free Party, the basic approach of which was such that there should first be some marked change in this area, which would tell the Estonian public that this problem has been taken note of and dealt with, but then the normalisation of the situation could be spread over a longer period, so that the situation nearest ideal would begin after the elections in 2019 when the next Riigikogu has begun its work. We also talked about what we know about other countries. This is an area where comparisons are very difficult to make. It seems reasonable to talk about the price of a 'voice', as it is in Germany or Latvia. Latvia grants half a year for each vote in the parliamentary elections, in Germany it is between two and three euros, and according to our calculations, this amount is nine euros in Estonia. We do not know of any other country in the European Union where this amount would not be at least three times lower. But then the Reform Party brought in a specialist who claimed that the amount in the Republic of Iceland was relatively higher. Maybe it is, maybe it isn't. I haven't been able to control it. If that's the case, they've arranged it differently. Maybe you should ask them. Our basic ideas also included the fact that... If I may, more time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U141	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U142	... to switch from the current system to the voice price system, like Germany or Latvia. This would allow the same system to be used in local elections and would allow those political parties or local electoral associations who have been forced to go to the composition or service of large parliamentary parties due to pressure measures to act normally on the ground. It was our second idea. The third political idea we had was to equalise the possibilities of elections. According to our proposal, this would be the easiest way of saying that if one party submits a list of 125 candidates and the other with 125 candidates in the same way, they would receive an equal grant from the state if we decided that such support was needed at all. The hope is that the difference in financial opportunities will no longer determine the outcome, but probably already political programmes. It's only hope, of course, but at least we hope so. I've repeated these thoughts here. We have not lost them anywhere, and we would be very pleased if there were even some significant progress in this area over the next three and a half years. But if that does not happen, I hope that the Free Party and several other forces will also exist before the 2019 elections. I certainly hope that the electorate will then be more aware of the technical details of the elections, which are probably not yet clear to many people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U143	Thank you. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U144	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, What remained crunchy was the position of the Minister of Justice, according to which we cannot begin to improve our electoral system or the party financing system by parts, but all things must be done in a large set and by consensus. This is a classic example of how perfection is made a good enemy. In fact, if you can see that there's no way to take this big round egg off any edge, you should start somewhere. And party funding is definitely the one thing we can start with. I fully agree that this is a complex issue. I think that the composition of the Riigikogu after the last elections is a clear sign that the voters were not satisfied with the current political landscape in Estonia. Despite the very modest campaign by very small means by the Free Party and Conservative People's Party, in essence we had the restrictions on us, we still got over the threshold of the Riigikogu and can promote the ideas that we have been given with the mandate of the people here. In my opinion, the current financing system is actually actively undermining a functioning democracy. He creates a self-reproducing spiral where those who have get more all the time, and those who don't get less all the time. In this situation, the unwillingness of coalition parties to move this issue forward seems to stand out. On the contrary, their desire to keep this subject quiet and shake for a long time now stands out, which is to say, somehow, it falls off the agenda and gets back to a situation where there are fewer people in Parliament who are interfering with the kind of business that was still there. This cannot be acceptable, it certainly will not work either, because there are enough delegates in this Riigikogu Chamber, who are still bothering with this topic all the time, and there is also public pressure. In any case, from the point of view of Estonia's democracy, it would be necessary for the parties to give up an important part of the money that they themselves have allocated from the taxpayer's pocket as a bonus. This would in itself create restrictions on the electoral campaign. If you don't have enough money, you're gonna make a smaller, more modest campaign. There is no need to limit the volume when the money is less. One more important point. During the debate, it turned out that either spending or volume of money could be limited. Firstly, I am extremely concerned that we are talking about restricting the electoral campaign at all. I think that there is a very serious risk of violating constitutional freedom of expression and freedom of conscience and political freedom of action. After all, we know this case when the Foundation for the Protection of the Family and Tradition made a mass post that he had not previously agreed with any candidate and for which he had collected money as private donations himself. He's been investigated because he's been campaigning for bans. I am sorry, but if the citizens' pressure group is not allowed to express its political views before the elections, it is certainly not in line with the spirit of the Constitution or with the principles of democratic elections. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U145	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U146	If we are talking about any kind of restriction at all, it is conceivable to still make volume-based restrictions. I can say with absolute certainty that the prices traded by the Conservative People's Party from advertising agencies were much lower than those traded by another party. This means that our spending per second on TV, for example, was several times cheaper than on IRL, for example. This "money-based restraint" certainly does not make it any more honest. On the contrary, it will lead to another mechanism of controls, regulation and reporting, which will make our political system more cumbersome and bureaucratic and, in fact, will make the free political action of state power breathe into the back of the head. That's not good, I don't think that's necessary. There is a need to reduce taxpayers' participation in party funding. Our proposal is for all parties to be financed equally, to the extent that they can clean up their homes. Campaigns should be funded by donations. This would lead to the activation of party membership, which would lead to real internal democracy in political parties and a much more effective political debate. One sure thing that will contribute to the development of democracy is the abolition of bail. The bail is unreasonable, it is essentially a financial censorship that limits people's participation in the political process. Instead, it could be the collection of signatures. These are proposals that have repeatedly sounded, which also sounded here today, and which we have tabled in the draft. I really do not think that if we cannot solve all the problems of financing our political parties and the electoral system in one blow, we should not begin to improve any of these things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U147	Thank you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U148	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, In response to our inquiry, we received a round story that gives quite little hope. It is true that the positive side must be borne in mind that there is a problem. We have taken a major step forward in the sense that there is a problem being seen on this issue, but we still think that it is very important how this solution is going to come. In the previous composition of the Riigikogu, I saw, for a very long time, how the excellent proposals of the Riigikogu, some of them very good and some of them perhaps a little more questionable, which the President of the Republic handed over here, were simply killed in the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu by the same complexity. It is very easy to undermine the various initiatives from below and ultimately do nothing when going to scolastics. I would point out that, however, we have the drafts that have been tabled in order to change this situation. Discussions on the State Budget Act are coming up, and we will certainly make our proposals on the state budget in order to halve the money allocated to political parties in the state budget for the coming year. These are concrete steps and I would ask you to support them! What I don't think is a good tone in the Minister's speech is that there are such reasons being sought to see what the Centre Party is doing in Tallinn, or that there is some kind of security threat that forces us to fund political parties in Estonia in an undemocratic way. You know, I have seen this thing when I was the rapporteur for the Council of Europe in Azerbaijan for years, where, in the case of any fundamental rights issue or human rights violations, there were such universal excuses that there was a war situation in Karabakh and there were extremists next to Iran. These are not good style solutions or good style excuses. I would really ask you to refrain from them. I would hate to hear that some elements of Estonian democracy may be worse because we have the Centre Party and the Russian threat. As far as analyses are concerned, I would point out that we already have certain analyses. We have asked the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. We have comparatively good reference material with other countries of the European Union. Perhaps it is not perfect and maybe it does not reflect the last phase of time, because it is based on 2010 data, which is why it would certainly make sense to update it, but it says very unambiguously and clearly that, if you base your comparison with GDP, this money, which is given to political parties in Estonia through the state budget, is almost three times greater than the figures of several European Union countries. This reference material alone should say that we have these things wrong and wrong, and this should be organised differently. Finally, the role of the Riigikogu. I would not miss this aspect here. If, by December, the respected Minister of Justice is able to build this bridge between the visit to the Riigikogu and his steps, we did not see it under the coalition agreement, then it is nice. But I think that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did very badly when it came to resolving this issue as a 'other issue' to the Minister of Justice. In fact, the Riigikogu is precisely the place where political parties should be able to speak to each other about such problems. If we can't do that, don't be surprised if we're called a rubber stamp again somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U149	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. Does the Minister have a wish to speak? Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U150	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Mr Helme mentioned here that his party received advertising several times cheaper than competitors. I would point out that the current party law talks about obtaining a service below the market price, which in this case is qualified as a donation. So I hope you've declared it too. Now the second question, which concerns what we are talking about specifically. Andres Herkel, in my opinion, quite well summed up the fact that all the proposals that are being made should be implemented, and if they are not implemented, it is a rubber stamp. He referred to the activities of the previous Parliament. He said that the great proposals of the people's assembly, some of them good, some of them questionable, were just killed. Everyone should have been put into practice, both good and questionable, but they were killed. Here, too, there are a number of aspects in what way this specific national budget allocation should be shared and what kind of system it should be. The question is which system is sensible in terms of the functioning of the political space, the political system. There are possible alternatives here. But I do not approve of the argument that the current Estonian political party system, as it was created, and the financing system, as it was established in the 1990s, are a financing model that could be paralleled to the undemocratic system, the Azerbaijani system. I did not mean that the current system of funding parties should be maintained because the Centre Party is carrying money in Tallinn or because there is no effective supervision. No, the other way around. My point is, if we do not solve a problem of this magnitude, it is very hypocritical to talk about a facet and that from a system perspective. I recall that EUR 10 million per year is the volume of the election campaign. This is a very serious deviation from the democratic process. When it is said that we are not dealing with this issue, we are dealing with what the heirs have pointed out, I cannot agree with that. There are several aspects here, and we have to deal with all of them. I am pleased that Mr Adams has corrected Mr Ammas' words. Indeed, the controversy at the time of the economic crisis over this cut was great, but the philosophy of the general public sector, as it was 7%, also concerned the state budget allocation of the parties, which, indeed, according to the perception of the authors of the inquiry, is not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U151	Thank you. I'm gonna stop answering that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U152	Let's go to the third question. On 4 May 2015, Uno Kaskpeiti, Henn Põlleaasa, Martin Helme, Mart Helme, Arno Silla, Raivo Põldaru and Jaak Madison of the members of the Riigikogu submitted an inquiry into the reception of unpersonal Ukrainian foreign passport plans and refugees to Estonia. On behalf of the inquisitors, please speak to Uno Kaskpeiti!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U153	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, We have an inquiry to the Foreign Minister. This is due to the fact that many people from Ukraine have recently received a residence and work permit in Estonia. We therefore have the following questions. On the basis of what principles and in what amounts has it been planned to allow Ukrainian war refugees to Estonia? For example, Poland considers that Ukraine itself is able to relocate refugees on its territory. Secondly, how has the authenticity of the documents of Ukrainian citizens arriving to us been verified and ensured that they are not documents issued in occupied areas? Thirdly, in what way is there a distinction between the reception of Ukrainian refugees, whether they support Russia's aggression policy or the independence and territorial integrity of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U154	Thank you. I ask the Foreign Minister of the Speaker Marina Kaljuranna to answer the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U155	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'm gonna start answering questions. The first question: 'By what principles and in what amounts has it been planned to allow Ukrainian war refugees to Estonia? For example, Poland considers that Ukraine itself is able to relocate refugees on its territory. ' Estonia has not introduced quotas for applicants for international protection from different countries, each application is separate and is processed accordingly. International protection is granted only to Ukrainians whose relocation on the territory of Ukraine is clearly difficult, i.e. impossible. The second question: 'How has the authenticity of the documents of Ukrainian citizens arriving to us been verified and ensured that they are not documents issued in occupied areas? " As far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned, neither the foreign passports nor other travel documents of Ukraine remained under the control of separatists supported by Crimea or Russia. Nor did the equipment used to personalise travel documents remain in these areas. For years, Ukraine has been using a centralised system to personalise travel documents, which means that all travel documents will be personalised in Kiev, so there is no need to keep travel documents forms and the equipment needed to personalise them elsewhere in the regions. As far as we know, however, a number of plans for internal passports in Ukraine remained in the areas under the control of separatists supported by Crimea and Russia. The data on these plans are known to the Estonian state. However, as the internal Ukrainian passport is primarily a document for domestic use, which does not matter much in international communication, it is not important for Estonia to leave the control of the Ukrainian central power of these plans in this context. For example, Ukraine's internal passport is only used as a travel document in very few countries, in order to apply for a Schengen visa or in order to cross the Schengen external border, Ukraine's internal passport is not suitable. Last question: 'What is the distinction between the reception of Ukrainian refugees, whether they support Russia's aggression policy or Ukraine's independence and territorial integrity? ' International protection is granted only to those Ukrainian citizens who are fleeing from Russia's aggression. The need for international protection will be identified during the procedure. Applicants will be interviewed, by staff of the Police and Border Guard Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U156	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Please, my colleague Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U157	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You said that the obviously difficult or impossible relocation on Ukrainian territory is one of the reasons why people are being admitted to Estonia. What does "clearly" mean? In my opinion, there is nothing obvious here. What are these criteria, however, which show that it is difficult, or impossible, to relocate a person inside Ukraine? How exactly is it controlled?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U158	Thank you for your question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. The applicant will be interviewed and the interview will examine where he/she comes from, where his/her home is, whether it is located in a crisis area, whether it is located in occupied areas. As a result of all these questions, answers and interviews, the police and border guard will draw their own conclusions and make a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U159	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U160	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, How many asylum applications have been submitted to Estonia today? How many refugees do we have? Do we have an adequate overview? As we know, people living in Ukraine also have relatives here and then some family reunification right begins to apply. How many people have arrived from Ukraine today?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U161	Thank you for your question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. I'll read you some statistics. In 2014, 50 Ukrainian citizens applied for international protection in Estonia, and no applications were granted. During the eight months of this year, 62 Ukrainian citizens have applied for international protection and 32 people have received protection, or just over half. Last year, 1087 residence permits were issued to Ukrainian citizens to settle in Estonia. According to Statistics Estonia, 22994 Ukrainians lived in Estonia as of 2014.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U162	Thank you. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U163	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned that the issuance of passports in Ukraine is centralised and under Kiev's control. Are we also asking Kiev about the documents of those coming here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U164	I thank you for this question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. I don't know how to comment on the details. This is the subject of the Police and Border Guard Board, the Ministry of the Interior. I have the information I've received from the Home Office. Yeah, I'm assuming it's being controlled. Yes, I expect there will be an ongoing exchange of information and, if there is any doubt that the documents are falsified or invalid, there will also be communication with the Ukrainian central authorities on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U165	Thank you. Colleagues Henn Põllaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U166	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In the Forum, you recently said that immigration is a detail in which... Can't you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U167	The microphone, please! Can we make sure that Henn Põllea's microphone works?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U168	Please, the microphone, yes! Hello! Hello! Is it? Can't you hear me? Hello!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U169	The chairman of the hearing hears, but the rest probably won't hear.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U170	I can hear you, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U171	I can speak loudly if it pleases you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U172	We can't do that. We also need material for the verbatim. I'll take a five-minute break from the manager. Break five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U173	Ladies and gentlemen, Now we have this peculiar situation that the microphones are not working in the hall, but recording for the verbatim is happening. Do you agree that if the text of the questioner and of the respondent is audible and understandable to everyone, we can continue the sitting? Do you agree? Please! [[Interjection.]] All the remotes are working, time can be measured, the verbatim can be compiled, but there is no sound in the hall, obviously something has happened to the speakers and they are not working. [[Interjection.]] Okay. Technical people say they can still solve the problem within ten minutes. I'll take the manager's break again. Break ten minutes, proceed at 6.54 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U174	Ladies and gentlemen, let us now try to move forward with the sitting. I hope the technology doesn't let us down anymore. My colleague Henn Põllaas, please ask your question! Maybe it's possible to present it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U175	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In the recent 'Forum', you said, 'I'm trying to make the point more or less, probably not quoting that immigration is a detail that should not be entangled in. Are you really of the opinion that immigration is not a matter of state self-determination and sovereignty?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U176	Thank you for your question. Dear Member of the Riigikogu, I have come here to answer questions about the reception of unpersonalised foreign passports and refugees in Ukraine, but I am happy to answer you. I certainly did not say anything like immigration endangering Estonia's independence or sovereignty. The independence, sovereignty of the Estonian state, the preservation of the Estonian state and culture are as important to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Foreign Affairs as absolutely all other institutions in Estonia, and I hope to the people of Estonia as a whole. However, when dealing with the mother of refugees, a number of components must be taken into account: the number of refugees, foreign policy aspects, what we can do in crisis zones, and how we defend the external borders of the European Union. One issue is not to make big generalisations, but to look at refugee policy and immigration as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U177	Thank you. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U178	Thank you, honorable President of the sitting. Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to clarify my colleague's question concerning what he said on the Forum. I quote: 'We cannot get stuck in the details of whether the current refugee crisis has arisen across Europe, whether it is resolved by leadership from Brussels or Estonia. ' You mentioned whether the solution comes from Brussels or from Estonia as a very clearly small detail. This was very astonishing for the entire Estonian people, and the social media also became thronged. I think that such a statement leaves a great deal of interpretation. Therefore, we would be very happy if we could now get the answer here, whether the solution to the refugee issue, whether refugees are divided in Europe according to the principle of solidarity or other principles, should come from the viewpoint of the Estonian Government and the Riigikogu, or whether it should be based on the quota system proposed by Brussels.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U179	Thank you for your question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. A Member State of the European Union has certain questions that fall within the competence of the European Union, and there are certain questions that fall within the competence of the State. The protection of Estonia's borders and the conditions under which we allow refugees to enter our country are the competence of the Estonian state. These decisions are explained either by a minister or by a prime minister in the institutions of the European Union on behalf of the Estonian state. The current debate in Brussels concerns the European refugee crisis, which is the biggest crisis that has hit the European Union since World War II. In resolving this crisis, the European Union can only be united and strong if the Member States act together. Estonia will decide for itself, but it must be determined on the basis of the values of the European Union, which we considered to be important earlier, and we still consider to be a Member State of the European Union when we are a Member State of the European Union. These problems must be tackled together, jointly and severally, in the light of the sovereignty, will and desire of each Member State.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U180	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to start negotiations? No calls, so I'm gonna stop asking for a third question... There is, though. I'm sorry. Please, my colleague, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U181	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit that I was not satisfied with the answers that we have now received from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I was not satisfied with the answers on the subject of Ukraine, because I personally had the impression that our policy was poorly planned in the sense that we do not know exactly who comes from there. It's just a mess. We do not know whether these people are coming to us because of family ties or whether they may be people who support Russia's policy towards Ukraine and other neighbouring countries of Russia, and whether, after all, we have control over the documents they use. The Minister also admitted that he could certainly not answer 100% that we have full control. However, even less satisfied was the Minister's explanation of the refugee crisis in Europe, which was not even the answer. What doesn't please me? I am not satisfied that we are constantly knocking on our conscience that we must be Europeans. We are Europeans. Nor am I satisfied that we are always told how we must show solidarity. We have solidarity. We have been to all the hot spots with our soldiers: Iraq, Afghanistan. We're in the Central African Republic, we're in Mali, we're in Lebanon. I do not see a place where Estonia would have overlooked anything and would have shown solidarity and willingness to create security, not only to consume it. From this point of view, the clues that we should be more orthodox about Europe and more conscientious than we are anyway are are completely incomprehensible. And yet, I am absolutely not satisfied with this statement that we are sovereign and decide who we accept. We are not sovereign because we are having it written to us in substance. The European Union Affairs Commission has not authorised the Government of the Republic to accept more than 150 + 30 so-called refugees, who are in fact welfare immigrants. At the last meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs, there was no agreement on the admission of the next 300 immigrants (and something else besides). Consequently, the government is not actually acting in accordance with a clearly given mandate in Parliament at the moment; this mandate has not been obtained by the government. Talking about sovereignty here is simply inappropriate. We are doing again what is basically required of us. When Germany first announces that it will receive 800000 immigrants, and then at some point it will say that it will still not be able to accept more of those who are already there, and the rest must be distributed, it is an abuse of agreements and of the good will of other countries. If Italy and Greece essentially refuse to guard their borders and participate in government-level trafficking in human beings, then there is no point in telling us here in Estonia about the need to guard the Schengen borders. By the way, we probably started to guard these Schengen borders a little more conscientiously only after many of us here wear a yellow tape in our breasts, either from Estonia or from the border. It is also inappropriate to talk about the surveillance of the Schengen borders in this situation. Let's get this straight. Estonia does not act as a sovereign state, as it should. Members of the Riigikogu want to remind the government that it is necessary that we act as a sovereign state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U182	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiations, I will conclude the negotiations. Does the Minister have a wish to speak? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U183	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I come back to the first question that I was invited here today, i.e. Ukrainian documents and how the applications for Ukrainian refugees are processed. I apologise if I did not answer all the questions and could not comment in detail on how interviews with refugees take place. But I will certainly pass on this request to the Minister for the Interior, whose administration is these conversations and forms, and then he will be able to answer these questions in more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U184	Thank you. The procedure for the third enquiry is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U185	Let's move on to the agenda, there's a fourth question to be discussed. This is an enquiry made on 6 May 2015 by members of the Riigikogu Jüri Adams, Andres Ammas, Krista Aru, Andres Herkel, Monika Haukanõmme, Külliki Kübarsep, Ain Lutsep and Artur Talvik about the emergence of medical insurance cover for a creator who earns income under a debt-law contract. The inquiry has been submitted to Minister of Culture Indrek Saare. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U186	Mr President! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, after your summer vacation, you will be able to follow bravely those important issues that we are discussing here today. I'm so sorry there's so little of you here. I am even embarrassed to say this because, in fact, the issues of questioning are such that they should be cross-political and touch the soul of every vigilante. It is precisely here in the Riigikogu that we should discuss with each other, look for solutions and try to find the best of them. But now it's submitted to an inquiry. An inquiry with this focus could have been submitted to another minister, because, let us be honest, the problem of health insurance cover for a person working under a debt contract can concern people working in all areas and, by the way, all of us. This was presented to the Minister of Culture primarily because of the focus on our creative people, the people who maintain Estonian culture with their daily work and ensure its progress and development. The question, as we all know, is that if a person working under a debt contract receives a remuneration, he may also receive quite a reward, he will not receive it in such a way that the register of work is marked 'ORE monthly payments'. If, for example, he receives twice or three times a year an amount from which the tax rate may even exceed the monthly rate established by the State, he will still not be covered by continuous medical insurance. That is a question that we should resolve. This would be in the interests of Estonia as a whole, not only in the interests of cultural people and creative people, but also in the interests of researchers. In particular, for example, when researchers receive a higher grant or grant from the European Union, which is paid once a year. That is why we have put forward five questions. We very much hope that together we will be able to solve this problem, which actually causes injustice in the sense of the Constitution, because the tax is paid, but the person will not be covered by health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U187	Thank you. Please respond to the inquiry by Minister of Culture Indrek Saare!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U188	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu, first let me wish you a happy New Year. After all, a new season began, and in the cultural field it is always the custom to wish you a good new year when you meet in the autumn season. This practice is quite common in this house as well. First of all, thank you for your questioning. Firstly, I will answer the first two questions. The first question: 'How many people who are actively involved in creative activities in the cultural field are not covered by health insurance at all, and do you see a problem here? ' The second question: 'How many people who are actively involved in creative activities in the cultural field are not covered by health insurance, although they earn income from which the social tax payable amounts to or exceeds the minimum required? " Good heirs! The health insurance problem you have raised is, in the view of the Ministry of Culture, a very topical issue, I assure you. Today, however, the Ministry of Culture lacks an accurate overview of artists who do not have health insurance. Creative activities are not known to be an activity requiring a licence or registration, and such work is not otherwise regulated by a professional activity. It is often done alongside other work, so it is not possible to obtain very accurate data on this. However, through the register of creative alliances launched at the beginning of the year, we can already produce quite precise statistics, in cooperation with other national databases, on the tax receipts and social guarantees of the members of the creative federations. The Ministry of Culture has in its work programme this year to launch a study to map the economic performance of artists and social guarantees. The aim is to provide an analysis of the functioning of existing laws for people whose social tax is collected irregularly, and on the basis of the practice of the rest of the world and the current situation in Estonia, to propose legislative changes and to map alternative solutions. The situation varies greatly in different cultural areas, depending on the particularities of the operation of the particular art. There are more regular forms of work based on paid employment, such as theatres and orchestras, and more individual or less regular areas, such as literature, art and film art, where income and their legal form do not currently provide health insurance. Here, of course, the contribution of the sector itself to providing feedback on the existing situation is also important, but also to finding solutions. I assure you that the Ministry of Culture is a partner and supporter of artists in this process. I would like to point out that the whole problem is, however, not strictly about creative people, as Krista Aru has already pointed out here, but it has a much wider scope in society. Creatives probably make up only part of people whose pay comes at random. However, it is precisely because of the creative theme that the wider public has learned about the problem. Question 3: 'What are you going to do to eliminate the unequal treatment that has developed since the onset of health insurance and to ensure that all persons covered by health insurance are able to earn income by creative or other forms of activity, in proportion to the amount of income that allows them to cover the agreed minimum payment after a year, even if it is spread unevenly over months? ' According to the Health Insurance Fund, the proportion of people aged 20 to 59 without health insurance in 2014 was 16%. Among uninsured residents are those whose wages are covered by social security contributions, but because the remuneration is not regular, there will be no insurance, which is precisely the people who have been described. In addition, we also know people in the cultural field who prefer to get paid for working with other forms of contract, because it is not reasonable for them to pay social tax irregularly, there will be no insurance cover anyway. Those who are in a weaker position than health insurance and other social guarantees are also likely to be a greater burden on the social protection system in the future. Officials of the Ministry of Culture have met with officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and also the Tax and Customs Board. Unfortunately, however, consultations have not found a solution to the problem. The issue is broader and concerns the principle of solidarity in the social security system in principle. One solution for unequal treatment can be, according to the Ministry of Culture, to review the Social Tax Act and Health Insurance Act and to supplement it with appropriate provisions, while analysing the possible wider impact of changes on the collection of social tax. On the other hand, alternative tailor-made solutions for specific target groups should, of course, also be considered. The fourth question: 'Can you name a specific time limit within which this inequality situation will find an adequate solution, because it must be technically possible to reconcile the databases of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, which would show the collection of social tax throughout the year and which would allow it to be timed and aggregated on an annual basis? ' Since the Ministry of Culture is not an authorised or controller of the databases you have mentioned, we cannot give a specific deadline for resolving problems at database level. For the time being, this would mean, above all, obtaining accurate information from persons who pay irregular social tax but do not have insurance. At the same time, the aim of the Ministry of Culture is, of course, to quickly agree on concrete solutions and turn them into drafts. However, it should be taken into account that the Ministry of Social Affairs has a leading role to play here. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U189	Thank you. Minister, there are questions for you. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U190	Thank you, Mr. lead. Minister, first of all, thank you for your answers. As far as I know, the Ministry of Culture has been dealing with the problem and has been doing it long enough. Can you tell me if it's true what I have, that the actual non-solver of things is the Ministry of Social Affairs, that it's behind the Ministry of Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U191	Yeah, I agree. Over time, the Ministry of Culture has made various proposals and also made them in cooperation with the creative associations, but they have not, unfortunately, been accepted by consensus. In order for our proposals to be more specific and to be even more precise, we are trying to collect data. Let me remind you that when we talk about a system of social guarantees for artists, you can say that half the work has been done. However, one amendment to the legislation on social guarantees for artists has been enforced jointly. But on this subject, I will say once again that, since it is not only up to us to agree on everything, it is not up to us to say when we will get it over with, and which solutions are certainly acceptable to all parties, I cannot today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U192	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U193	Good manager! Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! 'Let us make Estonia newer! ' said the President of our country to us today. Most important of all, in his speech, I felt the suggestion that we should make things right and not do substitute activities. In fact, we have heard a great deal about the important things that help Estonia and the people of Estonia here today. One of the things we should definitely fix is the same health insurance cover. As the Minister rightly pointed out, in later life, those people who are not covered by health insurance are, in fact, a burden on the whole social protection system. However, when it comes to the payment of all the taxes on the salary or salary of a person that the state has prescribed for the financial year, but the question is that they have not been paid every month and that there is no record of 'big payments' in the register, this seems to be one of the things that we can still fix here. I don't want to hear that we can't make such adjustments for people because they might start cheating. If the country starts talking about such fears itself, then the country will not be able to do great things either. So I thank the Ministry of Culture and the Minister of Culture for their work already done. But I would still like to see straight clarity, I would like to see the end of this problem, which is acute in society, which is not helping our creative people and our scientists now, and also those in many areas of life who are getting irregular rewards. The summated amount should be distributed in such a way that the limit is paid and an appropriate indication is made in the register. Or there should be an amendment to the register. Because as long as we wait for these right moments, we will have a lot of things to do, just as the country did not react to the disaster or crisis of a swine plague at the right time. Let us not allow our creatives to suffer because, as I said before, our culture, the power and talent of our creative people, depends very much here in Estonia's life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U194	Thank you. I don't see any more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U195	Good President! Good minister! I still did not understand whether the Ministry of Culture had made its proposals to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance to solve this problem or not. If not, what exactly are these next steps? This'mapping' is a funny word.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U196	As I said in answering my questions, it's actually a pretty complicated mess. Firstly, the question is whether the data we rely on is sufficient to propose a working scheme. You can look at this issue on the side of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but if you look at it more broadly, the discussion partner is the Ministry of Finance. However, the problem is whether, if we were to give such an opportunity in the case of a solidarity insurance system, the amount of funds available in the social security system would remain the same or be significantly reduced. The real danger is that if we apply this option, there will be those who see it as an opportunity to optimize payment, and if we legitimise this possibility, the result may be that the actual social tax receipts will be reduced. That's the argument. There has been a debate around this issue about how to ensure that we do not give the possibility to pay less social tax in some situations. This is one of the important arguments. That is why I am saying that this discussion requires, firstly, that we receive more precise basic data for making proposals and, secondly, that we can ensure that this does not involve abuse of this possibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U197	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U198	Thank you. Minister, first of all, thank you for your answers. We understand perfectly that this issue is not just a matter for one ministry to resolve. But what advice do you give us? Should we then ask the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Finance separately for these possible next steps? How do you assess this horizontal cooperation between ministries? Do you, however, have any deadlines for moving forward with these analyses? I imagine that it is very easy for you to answer that there is a risk of tax optimisation and you are simply not dealing with it. Where is the guarantee that it will continue?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U199	Once again, we believe that this is an important issue, and we will certainly be working on it. But I don't dare to allow what time horizons can wait for a solution here. But I agree with you that there is a problem. I would certainly advise the Committee on Finance and Social Affairs of the Riigikogu to address this issue. There is also an interesting example in this house. When the previous composition of the Riigikogu ended in the spring, most of those who no longer continued in the Riigikogu were paid six months' compensation, on which social tax was paid rather than low. Two months after the end of their mandate in the Riigikogu, although half a year's share of taxes had been paid and not a small amount, some of the members of the Riigikogu who had not gone to the next job went and registered as unemployed in order to receive health insurance. So I think that this issue could be analysed on a number of aspects, not only in the creative field. Although I reaffirm that this is a very important problem in the creative field, the Ministry of Culture will certainly treat it as an important issue and will not ignore it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U200	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U201	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Did I understand you correctly that the main problem in unraveling this tangle is the fear of possible fraud on the part of the state? Is that the biggest obstacle?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U202	I would appreciate, however, that it is important to ensure that it does not create the possibility of optimising social tax in such a way that revenue from the state budget is significantly reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U203	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U204	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! Have creative associations also provided concrete solutions to this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U205	We have been discussing this. Creative meadows have certainly been the most active erectors on this issue, as I mentioned earlier. In this sense, the creative industries have been gratefully pioneers. However, this problem also concerns many other areas, as has repeatedly been the case here. If there were a solution that would satisfy the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the other parties involved, and someone would have proposed it, it might already be in force. However, a solution that could have been agreed has not yet been proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U206	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U207	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! In the area of animal analyses, this issue could be resolved. You could only consider the creative field, at first you could do it even experimentally or, let's say, in an experiment. But I have another question. What legislative changes are planned and what laws need to be amended when we look at the broader picture outside the context of the creative alliances?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U208	As I said above, this is particularly true of the revision of the Social Tax Act and the Health Insurance Act. Whether there is any other relevant legislation that needs to be amended, I am currently in debt to answer that question. We have not come this far with this discussion and possible solutions, as I said before. In order to move forward from here, we are trying to collect additional data that could provide either a pilot solution or a broader solution only for the creative alliances. But in all probability, this means that we only have to define it with the members of the creative alliances. However, we know that the field itself is wider than only those belonging to the creative alliances.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U209	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U210	We are going to the fifth inquiry, which Riigikogu members Tarmo Tamm, Enn Eesmaa, Lauri Laas, Kersti Sarapuu, Mailis Reps, Mikhail Korb, Siret Kotka, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Must and Jüri Ratas submitted on 10 June 2015. The inquiry is about the financing of unexpected expenditure by the sub-unions and bears the number 29. Indrek Saar, Minister of Culture, responds to the inquiry. I have the honour of welcoming Tarmo Tamme, the representative of the heirs of the Riigikogu, who introduces the inquiry to the public. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U211	Certain points of inquiry are no longer relevant, because since we entered the question, time has moved much forward, but nevertheless I read the question. The content of the inquiry is the financing of unexpected expenditure by the sub-unions. During the last days of May, Estonian men's volleyball team met to ensure access to the Swedish team's European championship in volleyball this autumn. Access to the title competitions is a great achievement for the team, but to the alliance it means unexpected expenses that weren't taken into account. The Volleyball Association, which has a budget of EUR 900000 this year without additional aid, has no cover for participating in the final tournament. According to the CEO, the team needs at least EUR 200000 extra money from the state to prepare the title competitions properly and participate in them. This situation has not arisen for the first time. In order to prepare the 2009 final tournament, the State did not allocate any extra money to the volleyball team, but two years later the same undertaking was supported by 1.5 million kroons, or 100000 euros. Also in the basketball team, who had access to the European Championship in basketball this autumn, as we know, the competitions that took place in Riga have already passed, requested additional money from the state to prepare for the competition. The basketball team asked the Gambling Council for 300,000 euros to prepare, but it received 200,000. Access to title competitions in team areas such as football, basketball, handball or volleyball is an immense achievement for a small country like Estonia and this does not happen often. At the same time, it is known that it is necessary to prepare properly for the successful performance of the title competitions and to organise inspection meetings. These unexpected expenditures, however, are largely beyond the control of the sub-unions and require additional public funding. The request for extra money should not take place, as is the case now, when there are three ministers on the board of the volleyball union, and so the volleyball union received the money. We should have a secure system so that the sub-mobiles do not have to go every time to get rid of this money from the state. How to get out of this position and move on, the questioners have asked the minister four questions. Maybe the minister will read them and then answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U212	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare, to answer the question of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U213	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear heirs, thank you for your inquiry. At your request, I will kindly read the questions. The first question: 'How does the Ministry of Culture plan to cover unexpected additional applications such as the sport federations in the future? Have you thought about creating a reserve fund for such occasions? " Indeed, this year, the example of team sports basketball and volleyball has once again raised the question of how to finance teams when qualifying for title competitions. For the first time in history, in 2015 two Estonian team sports team will be represented in the European Championship finals in the same year. Congratulations, Estonian and Estonian sports! This extraordinary achievement in Estonian sport resulted in extraordinary expenses. There has been no systemic funding so far, as the arrival of large teams in the final tournament has been the exception rather than the rule. Estonian team sports teams are rarely qualified for the finals of the title competitions. The basketball team has escaped to the European Championship final since regaining independence in 1993, 2001 and 2015. The volleyball team has also won the European Championship finals three times: in 2009, 2011 and 2015. There are no more examples of this in the newly independent Republic of Estonia. In football, handball or hockey, the team still hasn't qualified for the title competition. The World Championship finals are regularly attended by the hall hockeys, but the financial needs for their participation and preparation have been several times lower than in the areas mentioned above. At the meeting of the Government of the Republic on 2 July 2015, it was decided to allocate EUR 200000 from the reserve of the Government of the Republic to the Ministry of Culture to prepare for and participate in the final tournament of the European Men's Volleyball Team. The Basketball team's inquisitors already told me. The decision noted that the allocation of funds from the reserve of the Government of the Republic is a one-off activity and does not shape future practice. The preparation and financing of the participation in the title competitions must be carried out under a different system. The Decision stated that the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance would develop proposals and submit them to the meeting of the Government Office by the end of 2015 at the latest. In our view, the development of new criteria will certainly also mean an answer to the question of where the money comes from. On the basis of current practice, the State's contribution has been EUR 200000 per pool, with a successful qualification of EUR 400000 per year for the two pools. Due to the moment of qualification, there are currently three options for processing applications. Firstly, the country's budgetary strategy. This is possible in the case of participation in long-known title competitions, if qualifying is already established in the first quarter. Secondly, negotiations on the state budget for the following financial year. This is possible once the national budget strategy has been presented, in the event of participation in the title competitions. Thirdly, the reserve of the Government of the Republic, already mentioned and used in practice this time, which can be used in the event of participation in the title competitions that are already announced during the financial year and are taking place in the same financial year. The Ministry of Culture, taking into account what has been done in advance and on the basis of the agreement of the Government of the Republic, will prepare a procedure for applying for support in qualifying for the title competitions of team sports games, and we will present it to the Cabinet meeting of the Government of the Republic during this year, as agreed. The Ministry of Culture will present its vision to the Ministry of Finance for inspection and discussion within this month. The aim of the grant is to support the preparation of and participation in national teams of team sports games qualified for the adult international title competitions in order to contribute to the promotion of Estonia in the world and the development of the sport in Estonia through good sporting achievements. The second question: 'Estonian sports teams represent Estonia directly in the world and their performances are like a positive reputational campaign for the whole country. Do you think that Estonian sport needs additional resources to show Estonia in an even better light in the world? 'Sport activities are organised in cooperation between the public sector and sports organisations. The vast majority of sport activities take place in non-profit sports clubs that receive financial support and national tax incentives to create conditions for sports enthusiasts. Sport is by its very nature a voluntary activity. It should not be forgotten that, in addition to the grants for people and businesses engaged in sport and their own contribution, local authorities are the biggest sponsors of sport, which in 2013 supported sport with around EUR 60 million. The aim of the state is to keep sport within the agreed framework and to make sure that these frameworks are maintained. The task of the State is to keep the legal space and basic funding at that level so that sport can be successfully delivered within these frameworks. The state will not order medals, but it can contribute to the process that is needed to make progress. Top sports, youth sport and recreation are important to the country, because all these areas are very closely interlinked and have an impact on each other. Top sports is important to the state because it directly affects athletes' secondary growth and sports enthusiasts, among whom new peaks are born. Top sports are financed and directed mainly through support from the Gambling Tax Council through the Estonian Olympic Committee. The organisation of international title competitions and the deployment of teams in the international arena can be supported separately by the country, which we are doing. The Ministry of Culture supports sports organisations in 2015 with around EUR 15 million. This is complemented by the amounts allocated by the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Sport accounts for about 12% of the 2015 budget of the Ministry of Culture. The third question gives an example of the fact that the Latvians of the South have been very active in organising top competitions and asks what my opinion is as to whether Estonia should apply more actively for the right to organise title competitions, and how the government will help the sub-nationals when submitting their applications. Organisation of international competitions is important for Estonia. In 2015, very many important competitions took place in Estonia, which contributed to the introduction of Estonia in the world. Since 2010, the Ministry of Culture has regularly supported the organisation of several international competitions in Estonia. For example, in 2015, the Ministry of Culture supported 12 international competitions with a total of 325000 euros, including the European U23 Championships in Athletics, the European Championships in Cycling on the Road, the European Championships in biking, the Junior World Championships in figure skating, the Rally Estonia European Championship stage, etc. In addition, EAS regularly supports the organisation of international competitions. They have launched an action to support international events and conferences. In 2014, EAS allocated a total of more than EUR 530000 to sport organisations. Question 4: "What is your vision, should Estonia have the preferred sports that would receive more money from the state? 'The Ministry of Culture grants operating grants to sports federations and youth sport grants on the basis of defined criteria. These criteria are the number of enthusiasts, the results, the number of coaches and compliance with good governance. In the context of good governance, the organisation's capacity and capacity to fulfil its obligations, including its activities in international organisations, shall be assessed. On the basis of these criteria, the ranking of the organisations on the basis of which the grant is granted shall be established. As a result, there is no need to single out the preferred sports. Thanks for the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U214	Minister, thank you very much for your answers. You also have some questions registered on the spot. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U215	Honourable President of the Estonian Basketball Association! Honourable Minister of Culture! Your reply revealed that the system of funding for top sports in Estonia is quite complex, one could say that it is diverse: the Estonian Olympic Committee, Ministry of Culture, the Reservoir Fund of the Government of the Republic, the Cultural Endowment of Estonia, the Gambling Tax Council, municipalities, parents, private sponsors, state companies. You have already settled in your office and I therefore dare to ask whether such a system is the best of your opinion or whether it would be possible and necessary to change and improve something here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U216	Thank you. Surely it can be greatly improved. As I have already said, at the meeting of the Government of the Republic, where the volleyball union application was discussed, it was agreed that a system should be agreed more precisely on how it often becomes possible to apply for additional support for title competitions within the current financial year. Otherwise, there will be uncertainty for those who may have access to the title competitions, as well as for the wider sector, because if extraordinary costs of this magnitude are incurred by either the Estonian Olympic Committee, the Sub-Union or even the Ministry of Culture, during the financial year, this would mean withdrawing money from somewhere, because none of these reserves have any such reserves. As a result, it has been possible to turn to the reserve of the Government of the Republic. The problem actually arose with the financing of the application for the basketball union, which was solved, as mentioned above, through the Gambling Tax Council, but this naturally meant that there was less opportunity to apply for money for other projects. The solution to such extraordinary issues is certainly the procedure that the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance have promised to submit to the government office by the end of this year. I hope we can reach a reasonable agreement. As far as financing for sport in general is concerned, there have been various proposals. There is certainly one major problem with the financing of sport by public enterprises. There has been a question here of what is still financed by these public undertakings and on which the decisions of the Sponsor Committees or the Boards of Directors of state companies are based. This is one of the things that awaits a more precise formulation in order for the sport sector to have a clearer understanding of what they can apply for and what the selection criteria will be on the basis of which it will be decided. Reaching this agreement is certainly an interest of both the sector and the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U217	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U218	Thank you, manager. Good minister! The state needs a positive image and it is sought through a number of methods. We remember well the Welcome to Estonia campaign, which cost about 0.8 million euros. Now EAS is looking for a new Estonian brand with a price of about 200000 euros. My firm conviction is that with the help of sport and athletes, we will be able to introduce our country much more than with the use of confused slogans. EAS and its instruments could promote the country better through sport than "nothing" with slogans. Couldn't the money being spent on these slogans be spent on sports?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U219	It is very difficult for me to comment on these specific amounts and activities. I am not fully familiar with their search for the brand, but I am certainly of the belief that culture and sport are still the best way to introduce the country. It has repeatedly been proven that every euro that is invested in such events returns several times. For festivals, every euro that is put in place is on average quadrupled and for more specific events, such as Rally Estonia, the euro is even elevenfold. So the statistics show. A number of such examples can be found. I certainly agree that culture and sport are our best brands and that through them it is best to introduce Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U220	Minister, thank you for your answers. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Tamme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U221	Mr President! It was a pleasure to hear these words from the Minister, and I hope that the Minister will act in accordance with his own words. I'm still under the influence of the European Championship for basketball today. As a result, I am talking a little bit about how the Latvians have been able to present their country well and not only to introduce them, but also to bring money to the country. As we know, about 25,000 people visited basketball competitions in Latvia from Estonia. Actually, there weren't so many people, but they bought 25,000 tickets. If I take the average ticket price of 30 euros, then I do not know whether the Latvian basketball league or whoever earned 750,000 euros. We have already read in the media that the leader of the Latvian sports federation was very happy that thanks to the Estonian ticket money, they were able to repair the sports hall. I could give you more examples. The Latvians organized the World Ice Hockey Championship, then the nationalist cross, which is actually the motor sports Olympics and so on. It seems to me that Latvians are much better placed to market and advertise themselves. Many sports are accompanied by many fans. I read recently that the world championship of Veterans of Orientation is coming in Estonia, I think it was, and it was supposed to bring 3,000-4000 rich people to Estonia who come here to orientate, pay for a decent hotel in Tallinn and so on. It's money brought to the country. I think it's very stupid if the country doesn't take advantage of it. Maybe it's starting to move a little bit. As far as I know, EAS supports the European Championship in Rally Sports. The race is accompanied in the same way by a very large amount of money that can be left in the country. If these people are coming to Estonia, I think they will get a very good image of Estonia and come back here even if there are no competitions. But for example, the same Welcome to Estonia cost 0.8 million euros and now EAS is looking for a new brand with a primary budget of about 200,000 euros, as far as I know. I don't know what we can use it to preach to the world. As the Minister said, sport and culture are the best way to introduce the country. I would point out, for example, that Iceland, where the population is three times less than we have, has reached the European Championship Final in football. Slovenia is a good example of how the state supports sport and introduces itself through it. Our neighbors, Latvians, of whom I have already spoken a lot, may also be an example. I think it would be worth taking more advantage of this opportunity. Anett Kontaveit, Kaia Kanepi, Rein Taramäe or Tanel Kangert or in football, basketball, volleyball finals, this is the opportunity to introduce our country and thereby create a good reputation for the country. I think it's worth thinking about. I hope the Minister is working on taking over the title competition. It'll bring money to the state. The example of Latvia is here. Maybe we can fix a few halls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U222	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered. Dear colleagues, the manager is now facing a rather difficult question. We are looking for our beloved Minister of Education and Science, Jürgen Ligi. I will tell the honourable Minister for Education and Science through the microphone that we are waiting for him to answer the questioning in the hall. I'm gonna take a three-minute break from the manager's office to see if he can be found here at Castle 1a or not. Three minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U223	Dear colleagues, the break taken by the President of the Riigikogu session has ended. We look forward to the discussion of inquiries Nos 6 and 7. They should be answered by the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi, who, as we know, is not on Toompea at Lossi Square 1a. Our Home and Working Procedures Act says that if the bill is not a waitress in the Chamber, this is an impossible debate. So for the moment, I'm going to treat it this way. This certainly does not relieve the Minister of the obligation to reply to these enquiries. I am absolutely convinced that the Executive Board of the Riigikogu is sending a serious letter to the Government of the Republic about the fact that the minister was not in the Chamber at the time of the questioning and had not, as far as I know, agreed to do so with the heirs or the Riigikogu. Please, March Sults! Do you have a question? No, it's not. Peter Ernits, please! Is that a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U224	No, it's not. I'm just saying, an hour ago, the minister came to meet me at the castle door.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U225	Got it. Thank you. Rein Ratas, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U226	I have a procedural question. You mentioned, Mr President, a possible letter. But shouldn't this letter, with all the sharpness and seriousness of her height, turn to Lord Suur-Stenbock with the complaint that the free gentleman of their number today showed with his immense ignorance against the same temple of her height? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U227	Thank you. The Board of the Riigikogu will certainly discuss this signal and the content of this letter very seriously. It'll be on the next working day, maybe tomorrow. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U228	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would like to point out that the inquisitor is present and ready to ask questions, but I cannot ask myself questions and answer myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U229	Thank you. That's what I get. No further questions. Unfortunately, since it is impossible to discuss the following questions, we cannot discuss them today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U230	Moving on to the free microphone. Please, good fellows, register after the hammer hit! Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U231	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, almost ten people! Thank you to the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, there are no more representatives of the coalition here. The lights of the Reform Party Group are out, the TVs are off. I was prompted by the opening speech of today's sitting by Mr Nestor to use the free microphone. I fully understand the concerns of certain political forces that are spreading in society. They are genuinely concerned about the problems of our society. They are worried about the hostile atmosphere that is in their eyes taking over Estonia and our people. At the same time, I find it entirely regrettable that a Member of the Riigikogu, in particular the President of the Riigikogu, who is the next man after the President, must teach the members of the Riigikogu how to vote on implementing provisions when a person who has obtained a mandate from the people has to tell the other 100 Members who are voters on the same basis, equally to him, to stand up for their interests in the way they should behave in the public space. I think that the concern of our society is in no way alienation, hate speech, intolerance, neglect or lack of solidarity with those who suffer, if they really are sufferers, war refugees, who are fleeing violence and terror. Estonians and the Estonian people are very solidarity-based in their souls, and so are we, because we have received our mandate from them. If we didn't care about anyone but Estonians, we wouldn't be here today. I would remind those who spoke at the beginning of the day that Estonia has been more solidarityable than most European countries. Given the size of the economies of the countries, we are in sixth place among the countries that have contributed to the Mediterranean operations. We contributed EUR 1.6 million last year to resolve the refugee crisis in the Middle East, of which EUR 300000 went directly to Jordan, where our delegation and I were last week. This money has gone from the pockets of the Estonian people to help people in need. This is real solidarity. Throw the people to the majority that they are haters because they do not support human trafficking and trafficking, a black business supported by our so-called partners in southern Europe, who will not intentionally put a stop to this black business and to causing human casualties! That is precisely what we are solidaritying with. I think that in the present society, where there has been a great deal of burning or, quoting what has been said at the beginning of the day, the topics that have heated up society, calmness and sober decision-making are the most important. It must not become emotional or accuse other political forces or almost 80% of the people who do not support mass immigration and trafficking in human beings. At the moment, we need to act as effectively as possible on the basis of the situation in order to put a stop to the problems that have arisen in southern Europe, to help within our capabilities, not to stress our emotions and feelings of solidarity. The best example of solidarity in Europe today was the vote in the European Parliament a few days ago in favour of the Eston case, where only nine Italian MPs voted in favour, 80% of them opposed. Why did they not show solidarity with us who are helping them with our own taxpayers' money to solve their problems? There is no solidarity in Europe in the sense of what the current coalition parties say about it, who contribute to solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U232	Thank you. I request the speech chair of the Riigikogu to the March Sults!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U233	Dear insomniacs! What do I say? I say this: valuing the work of kindergarten teachers and school food are not topics that would force the Minister of Education to remain at his place of employment, or Riigikogu, until the end of the working day. The members of the Riigikogu are not the people who have to wait for the minister. The Minister has formalised and confirmed our work, and the Minister must report to us, even though he said he did not have time, he has something pre-arranged and everything else. That's not what you do! If there's something that burns, it has to be solved. For a kindergarten teacher, he said'school teacher' this morning. Kindergarten is the place where basically people's ethics and behaviors are put in place. Any psychology textbook anywhere tells you that a child's personality develops at 4 to 7 years of age. In fact, the kindergarten teacher should be the most highly remunerated job, because he has the greatest responsibility. The same thing about school food: if a person can't eat, he can't learn, if he doesn't get the right amino acids or proteins, then he gets a stunt. So the two basics on which society relies are all the shit and the Minister went on to run his ministerial affairs. Thank you. Go, Republic of Estonia! Victory is with us!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-14_U234	Thank you. No more calls, no more free microphones. Good fellows, thank you. Today's trial is over. I wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 8.07 a.m.
