ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U2	Due to the end of the mandate of Lauri Laas, member of the Riigikogu, Oudekki Loone became a member of the Riigikogu on 21 November. In order to start work, he must take an oath of office. If the Riigikogu calms down a bit, it will have the opportunity. Please, Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U3	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U4	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Now it's time to hand over the drafts and enquiries. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Olga Ivanova!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U5	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of five members of the Central Party Group, I am going to refer an inquiry to Mr Reinsalu, Minister for Justice. An inquiry shall be made in respect of the remuneration and conduct of bailiffs. The bailiffs are freelancers in Estonia, acting on behalf of and under the authority of the state. A number of problems have recently been raised with regard to the activities, decision-making and remuneration of bailiffs. The society has learned of a number of cases that have seriously damaged the reputation of bailiffs, such as the case of Reimo Mets, which was linked to the activities of bailiff Kairi Laiõuna, as well as the case of Peeter Tenl, where bailiff Marek Laanemets seized the debtor's assets several times. The seriousness of the problem is illustrated by the fact that 984 referrals were made to the Regulatory Service in 2014. Compared to 2013, the number of disciplinary proceedings against bailiffs increased significantly. The main shortcomings found during the monitoring of bailiffs concerned complaints by the parties to the proceedings, in particular as regards the outstanding and failure to reply within that deadline, as well as the failure to deliver a decision to the parties to the proceedings within the deadline. Several infringements were detected in the seizure of property, violations were linked to over-incarceration, and it also seemed that people with irregular incomes were not guaranteed a detention-free minimum, i.e. a minimum of subsistence. We have four questions for the Minister to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U6	I ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair Jaak Madison!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U7	Honourable Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Marina Kaljuranna, regarding the positions of the Government of the Republic of Estonia regarding the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty and the occupation of the areas resulting from the Peace Treaty. On 25 November 2015, the Riigikogu processed the draft law on ratification of the border agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation. Marina Kaljurand, Minister of Foreign Affairs, presented the border agreement and answered the questions of the MPs as a representative of the government. In addition to repeated questions about the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty, the Minister confirmed that the Treaty will also apply to the ratification of the new border treaty, the peace agreement will remain in force and will only change the progress of the state border. The questions concerning the occupation of the areas resulting from the Tartu Peace Treaty were, unfortunately, unable or unwilling to give any concrete answers. The minister answered the questions concerning occupation: 'I also assure you that you may be right in law if you say that these areas have been occupied to this day. I wouldn't use that word, but you have the right to use it. There must be lawyers who approve of your interpretation. ' The Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia does not wish to address different interpretations, but rather to clarify the positions of the Government of the Republic. We therefore ask the Foreign Minister to answer three questions. First of all, does he confirm that 5.2% of Estonia's area is occupied under the current Tartu Peace Treaty? Secondly, is the government planning to make a claim for damages or compensation for these occupied areas? Thirdly, why has there been an agreement on a border agreement to be ratified between the two countries, which leaves the territories of the Russian Federation under the Tartu Peace Treaty, without any compensation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U8	There's no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Good fellows, we'll do a presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U9	Let's start working on the items on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law on the amendment of the European Union citizen's law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. We can go to the preparation of the final vote. Dear colleagues, since draft 57 requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, we will do a verification of presence before the final vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 17. Good fellows, I'm going to put a draft 57 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. [[Summing.]] I interrupt the vote. As the voting board of Urve Palo, a member of the Riigikogu, does not work, the vote is suspended. I will take the three-minute chairman's break so that this issue can be resolved. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U10	Good fellows, the chairman's break is over. Once again, I'm sorry for this stagnation! This is the moment when you can ask procedural questions. They're not recommended. As draft 57 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership, we will re-examine the presence before the final vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16. I will put draft 57 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. with 51 members of the Riigikogu against 7 and 7 abstentions. Draft Act 57 on the amendment of the European Union citizen's law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U11	Let's move on to the second item. The third reading of the draft law amending the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. We can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put the 97th draft to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. by 52 members of the Riigikogu, against 33, no one abstained. Draft 97 Act amending the Law on state fees initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U12	Let's move on to the third item. The second reading of the 98 draft Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask Jüri Jaanson, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, to present this speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the 98 draft Social Welfare Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic on 28 September, was completed on 28 October. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 11 November 2015. 20 amendments were tabled within the deadline. Three proposals were withdrawn during the discussions on the draft. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the preparation of the second reading at six meetings: 29 October and 16, 17, 19, 23 and 24 November. With their proposals and comments on the draft, the Chancellor of Justice of the Riigikogu, the Association of Estonian Rehabilitation Institutions, the Association of Estonian Women's Shadowplaces, the Estonian Federation of Kurtians, the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, together with the Association of Estonian Cities, and the Social Labour Department of the Võru City Government. In addition, the Ministry of Social Affairs presented its written proposals to amend the draft. At the first meeting, which took place before the deadline for tabling amendments, the parties' proposals were discussed. The proposals of the Estonian Association of Rehabilitation Institutions were primarily related to the cost-orientation of services. Clarifications were also requested, bearing the costs of training the rehabilitation team and what is meant by the quality management system to be certified. According to a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry treats the cost model as a tool and therefore does not intend to regulate expenditure and costorientation by law. In order to organise the training of rehabilitation teams, resources will be found in the scrapping of welfare support activities of the European Social Fund. With regard to the quality management to be certified, it was clarified that service providers must obtain a certificate certifying the application of the principles set out in the law. The address of the Estonian Association of Women's Shadows Association examined the intention of the Ministry of Social Affairs to impose on local authorities the obligation to start offering shelter services to victims of violence other than children. According to the information they provide, a specialised complex service has been built up in Estonia with more than ten years of work and a system of support centres for women covering almost all the counties has been established. At the same time, according to the representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, this is not a duplicate service, as only women and children receive support at the Women's Support Centre. Women's support centres do not help men who are victims of intimate violence and sexual violence, nor can children separated from the family benefit from parental care. The address of the Estonian Federation of Deaf requested specified answers and clarifications as to why the sign language interpreter service has been lost in the draft. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained to the parties that although there is currently no sign language interpreter service in the draft, this does not prevent local governments from providing this service, as each local government can develop and organise services not mentioned in the draft Social Welfare Act under its own conditions and according to its own procedures. It is very important that when a local authority has assessed a person's need for help and it has become apparent that a person needs the service of an interpreter for sign language, the local authority is also obliged to ensure it. The Association of Estonian Rural Governments and the Association of Estonian Cities found that there is a need to improve the understanding of the draft to the recipients. In their view, it is contrary to the Constitution that tasks currently carried out voluntarily by a number of local government units, as far as possible, are made mandatory, but are not referred to as financial sources. The representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained about the allocation of funds that the state has allocated funds to local authorities to organise social benefits and social services in their territory through the Equalisation and Support Fund, but unfortunately it has become apparent that many local authorities have left the remaining remaining amount of this money. The association of rural municipalities and cities also examined who would decide on the remuneration for social services. It was explained that the fee was decided by the local authorities themselves. If a person needs a social service to cope but cannot pay for it, then the local government must provide funding for the person in need or charge a fee in such a way that the person can pay for the service. The representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs also sent a comprehensive memo on the need for help and the obligation to provide local government assistance, on which I will briefly state the following. If the person in need has made a request to the local government by applying for a social service or social allowance, the municipality is obliged to assess the person's need for assistance. This means that the local authority must first, on the basis of its discretion, define whom it considers to be a person in need. Second, it must verify whether the person who addressed it qualifies as a person in need and justify the need for assistance. Thirdly, it must choose the most appropriate aid measure on the basis of discretion. The municipality must then decide whether or not to grant aid, which must be fixed in writing. The decision shall state the possibilities of contesting it. If the local authority has decided not to grant the aid or to grant the application in part, the reference to the challenge must indicate the person's opportunity to appeal to the local authority. If the local authority accepts the appeal in part or dismisses it, the municipality is obliged to forward it to the county governor for examination. It is also important that if the local authority is not able to provide the service or support requested in the person's application, it must be replaced by an alternative aid measure that best assists the person. In summing up, it has to be said that neither the current nor the future Social Welfare Act has such a thing as for the local government to leave the person in need without help. At the same time, the local government has been and will remain free to choose the possibility of assistance. The debate on the substance of the amendments was opened in the Committee on Social Affairs at its meeting on 16 November. One of the most important amendments was the amendment by the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, which seeks to eliminate the possibility of removing a person in line from the draft if he does not appear within three months to receive the service. According to the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, on 2 November they held a meeting with the representatives of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, where a common understanding was reached that, in order to increase the transparency of the queue, it is reasonable to keep the queue only for those who have a real need for services identified, and those who do not want to use the service immediately, but are still entitled to receive it, they can put themselves on a waiting list at the Social Insurance Board from the beginning of next year, which would be a passive order. If they do not wish to be added to the waiting list, they may be excluded from the service order. Finally, I will mention the procedural decisions and proposals of the commission. The decisions taken at the meeting on 19 November were as follows: We decided to send the draft to second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 26 November, i.e. today. We propose that the second reading of the draft be stopped, and when the second reading is completed, we propose that the draft be sent to the third reading and put to the final vote. We decided to appoint Jüri Jaanson, member of the Social Affairs Committee, as rapporteur for the commission. All these decisions were taken by consensus. In addition, at its meeting on 24 November, the Commission approved the draft second reading procedural documents by 7 votes to 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U14	Thank you very much, good waitress. Good fellows, I'm asking for silence in the hall! Thank you. I ask all the questioners to ask me at a calm pace. Let's get started. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U15	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! This morning, the Association of Estonian Cities stated that the draft to be processed should not be adopted as a law, as the 2016 budget does not reflect the resources required to carry out the tasks assigned to them. In your report, you said the Ministry would find...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U16	Good questioner, let's slow down a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U17	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U18	You have time to ask. I apologize to you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U19	Oh, we still need to slow down.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U20	The 2016 budget does not reflect the resources needed to carry out these tasks. In your report, you said that the Ministry considers that these necessary resources for the municipalities are included in the grant fund. Have the resources been added to the planning of the Fund for the coming year so that the tasks assigned to municipalities by this specific law can be covered financially?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U21	One moment, I'll tell you when to start again. Can the question be reworded from the point where the tasks are being carried out, the 2016 budget, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U22	Thank you. This draft does not deal specifically with financing and, according to it, no additional funds have been added to the budget, as the draft does not increase the financial commitments of the municipalities. It is simply the Social Welfare Act as a whole new text, a special part of the General Part of the Social Code Act. It marks those services of which there have been problems so far and sets out minimum requirements for these services. However, these minimum requirements are not such as to increase the financial expenditure of local authorities. I would point out that the principle of the current and future Social Welfare Act is that local authorities are completely free to design services. Local authorities and their units must assess a person's need for help and develop a specific service to help a person. If local authorities use the service described in the Act, they must comply with its minimum requirements.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Paragraph 156 (2) reads that, however, it must be ensured that the costs of local governments are reimbursed from the state budget. In the opinion of the Cities Association, this money is not provided for in the state budget. That's the problem. Wouldn't it be wiser to show the state budget where the funds are and then come to this hall with a bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U24	Thank you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U25	Thanks! As I mentioned so far, it has been, and will continue to be, the case that funds are allocated to local authorities for the payment of social benefits and for the provision of social services through the Equalisation and Support Fund. To date, it has become apparent that many local governments have accumulated surpluses in these allocations. What's the reason for this? The Ministry of Social Affairs doesn't seem to be able to say that yet. But it can be concluded that there is no money left behind so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U26	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U27	Good manager! Good waitress! The previous draft was totally lame, so the draft has now become less lame. Respect! But why did you object in the Commission to mentioning the service of sign language interpreter in the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U28	I did not vote against it in the Commission, but I made my position very clear. I have come to the understanding that the inclusion of sign language interpreter services in the draft law does not contribute to the availability of sign language to target groups, or deaf people. More broadly, the Social Welfare Act is meant to be open to social services, i.e. the local government is fully free to choose social services and help the person. At the same time, he is obliged to help a person. Social welfare services provided by the state and local government have been recorded in the Social Welfare Act, which has so far revealed quality problems and for which minimum standards had to be established. The translation of sign language has not revealed any quality problems so far. Translators are good. In order to improve access to sign language translation, it is necessary to allocate money from the state budget because the cost of the translation service is very high. More translation is also needed. Neither of them is the subject of this bill. On the other hand, when we talk about putting sign language interpreter service in the law, there are also many other services that could be recorded here. This could give local authorities the impression that it is a closed list of social welfare services and that other services can no longer be provided and must no longer be provided. On the contrary, the point of this bill is that local authorities have an obligation to help people when need arises. Finally, there was a huge discussion in the Commission on the service of sign language interpreter, how to resolve and clarify this issue. As a result, a clause was included in the draft law that the municipality is obliged to provide all kinds of services to the person in need, including translation services, if the person has a disability.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U29	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I cannot accept the approach that sign language is not mentioned in the law because there have been no quality problems with the provision of this service. We have a problem with availability. That means people have a problem. If people have a problem, this issue must be regulated by law. The service is expensive and needs additional funding, as you just said. Do you think that the solution currently proposed will help the deaf to obtain the service better?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U31	Thanks! I say right now that things do not have to be solved in law as much as in substance. The answer is no when it comes to whether the solution currently proposed, or even the inclusion of sign language interpreter services in the draft Social Welfare Act, would help to improve access to sign language translation. This is still, once again, the issue of allocating additional resources to be able to buy the translation service, and this is a question of increasing the number of sign language interpreters. Neither of them, or the same availability, is the subject of this law. Above all, our efforts should aim to increase resources in the state budget for the provision of translation services. That's one thing. The second issue is that if we put sign language interpreter services in the law in terms of accessibility, then the question immediately arises with all kinds of other services, such as blind guide dogs. It is precisely in terms of availability that there is exactly the same legitimate expectation that they should be mentioned in this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U32	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U33	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, you said that several municipalities did not use the amounts of social benefits. Are there any specific figures on the number of municipalities that left this money unused?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U34	Thank you. I don't have a specific bill for this bill. I'm using the General Information of the Ministry of Social Affairs and their position. They also carried out a specific study in all local government associations during the drafting of the draft law. In a large part of the municipalities, there has indeed been a surplus of money in the provision of social benefits and services.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U35	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U36	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This law should have been prepared before we started with the Employment Capacity Allowance Act, in essence already during the previous term. But, as you can see, they couldn't do it. You know how much has been said here about the need to set minimum standards for social welfare services in municipalities. A thousand times it was said that municipalities have different capacities and services are not available in all municipalities alike. The Estonian Patients' Association carried out a very thorough survey last year on the provision of social and welfare services to people with disabilities and special needs in Estonian municipalities, which, by the way, was not introduced in the Committee on Social Affairs. The study report stated, among other things, that the level of services is indeed very different and that the existence of services providers and professionals is not guaranteed everywhere. Seven out of the 13 services examined are not available to target groups in local governments. Support person service is the least accessible for people with special psychological needs and social transport is the most accessible. Almost one fifth of the local authorities that responded were not able to access any special care service. Studies by Praxis and TNS Emor also confirm exactly the same, and the National Audit Office has also pointed out this problem earlier, building on the OECD report. But now you have before you a draft law that should harmonise minimum requirements below which the level must not remain in any municipality. These requirements should be the same everywhere. But is it when the money runs out, which has been much talked about today? After all, there is a constant shortage of money for municipalities, and does one paper or law ensure that services are more accessible? There are not many of these services: home service, general care service, support person service, debt counselling service, personal helper service and a few more. This bar isn't very high. We know that larger municipalities actually provide much more services. Tallinn, but also Tartu, have been given a special example. That's where the other problem comes out. In those municipalities where the service is currently very good and of good quality, the level may now fall because the minimum requirements no longer require such a high level of service. However, services are not available in small municipalities. For example, Valga announced this morning that rehabilitation services could not be provided in practice in the next year because of the lack of resources. We have tabled our amendments to the draft, which were not supported by the Commission. I'll get one of them out. One of the biggest problems is occupational and social rehabilitation. Many institutions providing this service have abandoned or are abandoning the service. The prices are, as we know, long ago very low, and this job will not pay off. We proposed new cost-based prices, which would provide assurance that rehabilitation services will continue to be available. Unfortunately, our proposal was not taken into account. However, the problem is very, very serious and there is a lack of service. The draft Social Welfare Act imposes specific obligations and new tasks on local authorities in the field of service provision. The municipal associations have not coordinated the draft as no funding has been agreed for the provision of services. Once again, we are in a situation where municipalities are given more responsibilities without giving money to do so. This morning's Cities Union statement also confirms this once again, because they are asking where the money is. The whole process of working with this bill was quite passionate: paragraphs were moved again from one law to another; a large number of amendments were tabled only after the deadline. The day before yesterday, amendments were put on our table, with a very substantive point, and we proposed that the law be postponed for six months. The Commission decided to postpone the entry into force of some of the points by three months. We believe that this time is not enough. We have made this draft significantly better on some points, for example, I am thinking of the issue that has just been dealt with, the service of a sign language interpreter, which is very, very important, that is what people with hearing impairments were talking about in the Commission. I'm glad we coordinated it and got this point into the law, but no more money will be given. How, then, can this service be provided? On the basis of the foregoing, we believe that it would be reasonable to discuss all this with the local authorities and all the parties once again and not to adopt such a sensitive law in haste at this time. As our proposal has not been taken into account so far, the Centre Party Group proposes to suspend the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U37	I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõmme!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U38	Mr President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The new complete text of the Social Welfare Act has been prepared for the last ten years. In the meantime, responsible officials and ministers have changed. It has to be recognised that the current Social Welfare Act needs to be updated, because since its adoption in 1995, it has been amended dozens of times and the text looks like a Kört-Pärt shirt or a cloth blanket. It is therefore a remarkable achievement that the new full text of the Social Welfare Act has been completed, despite all the difficulties, repeated redeployment and impenetrable coordination circles. But as a result of their repeated redeployment and feedback from coordination circles, the content has become thin, as usual, when we make soup and have to dilute it several times. This draft is a compromise and it is certainly not the law originally expected. But, as they say, the solution is better than its lack. The draft law that we are reading today is not easy because it concerns many Estonians and regulates the social services and benefits provided by both the local government and the state, which are referred to in the General Part of the Social Code Act as benefits which are divided into financial and non-financial benefits. We have discussed the law at least eight times in the Commission and have had heated debates. The Estonian Free Party has tabled ten amendments to the Act, one of which we have withdrawn, but three are in our opinion fundamental. The first is the proposal to introduce the principle that a person in need is obliged to report all people who are aware of such a person. Secondly, we believe that the sign language interpreter service that exists in the current law should be added to the list of services provided by local authorities, but is not included in the new version. It is a vital service for the deaf community. Thirdly, the level of remuneration for social services should not, according to our proposal, be an obstacle to accessing services and the minimum amount of money must be kept for personal consumption. For example, in general care, people now often lose money and are unable to buy even one chocolate on retirement day. In advance, it should be said that, in the case of the three proposals that I have pointed out, the situation was resolved in two cases by a compromise. I will focus on one topic, namely the service of sign language interpreter. It's regulated by the current law. We proposed to bring it back into the law. The first reaction of the Ministry was, of course, negative, on the grounds that the local government already has an obligation to help the person in need, even if the service is not described in the law. However, this cannot be accepted, as the local government can interpret the law by providing them with a minimum list of the services they have to provide, but the rest is not mandatory. The list of services was initially submitted in camera, but could not be accepted as it is a matter of principle. Fortunately, a change has now been made and this list is open. I would like to thank the members of the Social Affairs Committee, all of whom, with one exception, supported our position, despite the strong opposition of the Ministry. It is not so common to take a position different from that of the Ministry and that of the opposition. This shows that if the subject is important, party membership does not matter. Three days later, the Ministry came forward with a compromise proposal to include an additional paragraph in the provisions of the assessment obligation, in which... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U39	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U40	... an obligation to provide the necessary assistance, including support and translation services. Again, the compromise is better than its absence, but it does not satisfy us. Our proposal was to include this service as a separate service in the assistance provided by the local government unit. It is supported by both the Estonian Federation of Deaf and the Estonian Association of Sign Language Translations. I must admit that I am sometimes confused by the behaviour of the ministry in the Commission working on this draft. The first answer to each proposal is no. However, if the Members of the Commission are fiercely arguing, proving their views correct and necessary, there will eventually be a compromise proposal which, in most cases, offers a satisfactory solution. But this could have been achieved much faster. It is also regrettable that the Ministry only submitted the full text of such a large and principled draft in October. This puts time pressure on processing again, and as a result of rushing, there is a risk of fingertips and holes. This also forces Commission officials to work on weekends and nights. When we dealt with this draft, we were in a situation where each session started with new amendments, which were justified by the Ministry's words 'for better legal clarity'. Today's draft does not guarantee equal access to services, but sets minimum standards for the service should the local authority provide the service. The local government has an obligation to assess the person and his or her need for help, but the provision of the service is a completely different issue, and it is weaker. The municipality can arrange for this assistance. So, we've done a very big job, the law has become much better. But if it meets exactly the expectations of the target group, I'm not so sure about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U41	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U42	I must reject the previous speaker's non-constructive views on the Ministry of Social Affairs. On the contrary, the Ministry of Social Affairs has been very cooperative and has responded very quickly to our proposals, coming up with its compromise proposals at each committee meeting. That is why we have reached highly acceptable compromise solutions. This, too, I would like to clearly mark that this list of services that was in this law was not meant to be closed from the outset. It is clear here that the services that have had quality problems have been identified and the minimum standards to be used for the provision of the service have been described. Perhaps these services are conditionally mandatory for local authorities. This means that if the municipality considers that it is precisely the service mentioned here that is necessary for those in need, that service must also be provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U43	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will begin the examination of the 98 amendments to the draft, 55 of which have been received. When I say 'lead committee', this means that the amendment has been fully taken into account. The first amendment is from the lead committee. The second amendment is from the lead committee. The third amendment is from a member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Küt, the position of the commission is to take account of the amendment in substance (see Amendment 5). The fourth amendment is from the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõmme, and the position of the commission is to take account of the substance (see Amendment 5). The fifth amendment is from the lead committee. The sixth amendment is from the lead committee. The seventh amendment is from the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõmme, and the position of the commission is not taken into account. The eighth amendment is from the lead committee. The ninth amendment is from the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõmme, and the position of the commission is not taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would like to ask for this motion to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U45	Thank you. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U46	Before we vote, the Reform Party Group wants to take a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U47	Thank you. Viktoria Ladynskaja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U48	We also ask for five minutes of recess!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U49	Yes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U50	Are you sure you're on the same page?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U51	Got it. Thank you. So the position here is uniform: vote and five minutes break. Five minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U52	Good fellows! The break requested by the Reform Party Group and the IRL Group has ended. We are at the ninth amendment. This has been submitted by the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, the position of the commission is not taken into account. I shall put to the vote the ninth amendment tabled by Member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukamm. Please take a stand and vote. 30 members of the Riigikogu, against 49, with 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The tenth amendment has been tabled by the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, the position of the commission is not taken into account. The 11th amendment has been tabled by the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, the position of the commission is not taken into account. The 12th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the lead committee. The 14th amendment has been tabled by the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, the position of the commission is not taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U53	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would like to ask for this motion to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U54	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 14th amendment tabled by the Member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukamm. Please take a stand and vote. 29 members of the Riigikogu, against 49, with 3 abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The 15th amendment has been tabled by the member of the Riigikogu Monika Haukanõm, the position of the commission is to consider the substance. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U55	I would like to ask for this motion to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U56	Thank you. I shall also put this proposal to the vote. Let's start preparing it. I shall put to the vote the 15th amendment tabled by the Member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukamm. Please take a stand and vote. 27 members of the Riigikogu, against 49, with 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 16 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 17 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 18 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U57	Thank you! I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U58	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 18th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 29 members of the Riigikogu, against 47, with 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The 19th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group, the position of the commission is not taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U59	I would like to vote on Amendment 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U60	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 19th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. For 30 members of the Riigikogu, against 48. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 20 has been tabled by a member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, the position of the commission is essentially taken into account. Amendment 21 is from the lead committee. Amendment 22 is from the lead committee. Amendment 23 is tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 24 is tabled by the lead committee. The 25th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is not taken into account. The 26th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The 27th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The 28th amendment is tabled by the Estonian Centre Party Group; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Amendment 29 has been tabled by the lead committee. The 30th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee after the debate. Amendment 31 has been tabled by the lead committee. The 32nd amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 33 has also been tabled by the lead committee. The 34th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is not taken into account. The 35th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The 36th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. 37th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The 38th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs. The 39th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The 40th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. 41th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The 42nd amendment, which has been tabled by the Steering Committee, has been tabled by good colleagues. 43rd amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The 44th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. 45th amendment has also been tabled by the lead committee. The 46th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee after the debate. 47th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The 48th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. 49th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. Now, we have now come to the 50th amendment, which has also been tabled by the lead committee. The 51st amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The 52nd amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. 53rd amendment has been tabled by a member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, the position of the commission is not taken into account. 54th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U61	Thank you! Please vote on Amendment 54.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U62	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 54th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. 29 members of the Riigikogu, against 49. The proposal was not supported. The 55th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. Thank you, good fellows. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be stopped, but the Group of the Estonian Central Party has proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft Social Welfare Act 98. We must begin preparing this vote. I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft Social Welfare Act. Please take a stand and vote. For 27 members of the Riigikogu, against 48. The proposal was not supported. The second reading is closed and the third item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U63	Let's move on to item number four. The second reading of the Bill on Consumer Protection 37 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Vice-Chairman of the Economic Commission, Mikhail Korbi!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U64	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I came before you to talk a little bit about what happened between the first reading of the bill and the second reading. The draft Consumer Protection Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 25 May. The first reading took place on 24 September and the deadline for submitting amendments was 8 October. 13 amendments were received from the Centre Party Group and three from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft between first and second readings at four meetings. At its meeting on 29 October and 10 November, all opinions and amendments were examined, with the exception of the proposal containing a more precise regulation of the control purchase received from the originator. Amendment 3 was discussed at the meeting of the Commission on 29 October, which specifies that the consumer must have been provided with information on his obligations in a way that is appropriate to him and that the trader must not charge separately for providing this information. The Commission considered that no charge should be charged for invoicing. Service providers may offer different options to the consumer, but the consumer must be able to choose the best way to obtain the invoice. There was also a longer debate on Amendments 14 and 19. It was found that there would be unequal treatment of consumers according to the draft text, as only some consumers would be able to refer to the Consumer Disputes Committee of the Consumer Protection Board and others would not be able to do so, as the draft would require them to refer to a private ADR entity, which would be entitled to charge only a symbolic fee for the procedure, the amount of which is not specified in more detail in the draft. As a result of the consultation, the Commission concluded that the consumer should remain able to appeal to the Public Consumer Disputes Committee. This would be supplemented by a new possibility of recourse to a private entity if it so wished. The Commission discussed the Ministry of Justice's proposal to regulate the control purchase. As a result of the consultation, the Commission considered that the wording proposed by the Ministry of Justice would unduly reduce the possibilities for the Consumer Protection Board to monitor effectively. The Commission did not consider it likely that the conduct of the control purchase would undermine the trader's privacy or family integrity. As a result of the discussion, the Commission decided not to change the wording contained in the draft and similar to the current law. On 23 November a new proposal was voted on, the text of which needed to be supplemented for technical reasons. I will then introduce some of the amendments. Amendment 1 sought to amend the draft consumer protection law so that the term 'consumer' would also include legal persons for the reasons set out in the explanation attached to the amendment. The proposal of the representative of the initiator of the draft act was not supported, as the consumer law is closely linked to the Law of Obligations Act and the consumer's concept must be similar in both laws. The Commission did not support the proposal. Amendments 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 18, 20, 22, 25, 27, 30, 31, 32 and 33 are proposals from the commission, which were taken into account by the Commission on the basis of the reasons given in the explanations annexed to the amendments. These proposals were also supported by the representative of the initiator. Amendments Nos 5, 14, 17, 19, 21, 26 and 29 are proposals from the Centre Party Group, which were found to be fully, substantive or partial consideration in the committee on the basis of the reasons given in the explanations annexed to the amendments. Amendment 7 was tabled by the Central Party Group. The proposal sought to consider defective goods which the trader should place or mark separately under the law, as well as goods which have less than 12 hours before the expiry of the minimum retention period indicated for the consumer, including the "best before" deadline. This was wanted to ensure that the consumer was aware of the passing date soon. The proposal of the initiator's representative did not support and explained that it appears that there is a 'useful up' label, which means the date on which food can be sold and used safely. It is not possible to dispose of these products after the 'eligible up to' deadline. The time of disposal of some goods may be less than 24 hours. It would not be appropriate to consider this as defective goods before the expiry of that period. The proposal was discussed at two meetings of the Commission. During the debate on 29 October, the members of the Commission considered that the wording of the amendment was perhaps incorrect, but the principle contained in it could be supported, and the proposal was initially taken into account. At its meeting on 10 November, the amendment was put back to the vote in the Commission and was not supported. Proposal No 23 sought to empower the consumer to submit a statement of objection to the chairman or member of the committee. The proposal was not supported by the representative of the initiator of the draft act, as he considered that the proposal would lead to an extension of the duration of the dispute proceedings. The Commission did not support this proposal. Proposal No 24 sought to empower the Director-General of the Consumer Protection Board to set the remuneration rates of the members of the Consumer Disputes Committee. The proposal of the representative of the initiator of the draft act was not supported, as he considered it necessary to allocate additional resources from the state budget for the remuneration of members. The Commission's proposal was not supported. Proposal No 28 recommended shortening the consumer dispute handling time in the Consumer Disputes Committee by setting a new deadline of 60 days instead of 90 days. The representative of the initiator did not support the proposal and explained that the deadline under the current law is not 60 but 72 days. Given the fact that disputes are becoming more complex, and assuming that there is an increase in their number, the 60-day deadline would be unreasonable. The Commission did not support the proposal. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 26 November and to propose that the second reading be stopped. When the second reading of the draft is completed, we have a proposal that the third reading be held on 9 December and that the final vote on the draft be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U65	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions, Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You mentioned the subject of control shopping in a few words, which is also important in a number of other special laws. Perhaps you will open up some of the arguments raised by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, for example, and for which reason they considered it necessary to amend today's regulation? The Commission did stick to the fact that the current regulation, which is actually very short in consumer protection law, is sufficient. Perhaps the product would highlight some arguments and the course of discussion as to why such a decision was reached.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U67	Thank you for your question. The debate was really very long and meaningful. The main question was whether the rights of an undertaking would be violated if the control purchase took the form it is currently carrying out. The Ministry of Justice, precisely in order to ensure that fundamental human rights are not violated, proposed a more precise regulation on the form in which control should take place. As a result of the debate, the opinion was reached that this regulation could be too detailed and that a control purchase would not be possible because the regulation would be too detailed and precise. This long period of notice and the information given to the trader give rise to the possibility of concealing some shortcomings or infringements and the whole point of the control purchase may be lost.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U68	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U69	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Was it good practice for this terrible number of suggestions and discussions to mark the fact that the customer is king and better served, not that his life is more complicated or that he has some random opportunity to buy poor goods, so he doesn't understand it himself?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U70	Thank you, dear questioner. The amendments were always examined in different respects. First, of course, the desire to better protect the consumer's interests was pursued.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U71	Good waitress! Looking out, you can see the first snow raining outside the window. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Ken-Marti Vaher!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U72	Dear Vice-Chairman, Thank you very much for the information on the outside. It was very practical and relevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U73	Please! Okay. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We will begin the examination of the 37 amendments to the draft. 33 amendments have been received. The first amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U74	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U75	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, we are on the first 37 amendments to the draft. I shall put to the vote the first amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. By 25, against 41 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. A second amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The third amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The fifth amendment was tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission after the debate was fully taken into account. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. The eighth amendment is from the lead committee. The ninth amendment is from the lead committee. Amendment 10 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the lead committee. The 12th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the lead committee. The 14th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is to take account of the substance (see Amendment 19). The 15th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 16 has been tabled by the lead committee. The 17th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is to take account of the substance (see Amendment 25). Amendment 18 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 19 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the position of the commission is to take account of the substance (see amendment 20). The 21st amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is to take account of the substance (see Amendment 22). Amendment 22 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 23 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Amendment 24 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Amendment 25 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 26 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is to take account of the substance (see Amendment 27). Amendment 27 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 28 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Amendment 29 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is partly taken into account (see Amendment 30). Amendment 30 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 31 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 32 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 33 has been tabled by the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the fourth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U76	Let's move on to item five. The first reading of the draft Act 124 amending the Population Register Act, the Civil Status Act and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins. I ask Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu for a presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U77	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to introduce to you a bit more precisely the draft law which was introduced by the President of the proceedings. Firstly, we propose to introduce into the Population Register Act provisions relating to the keeping of e-residents' data in the Population Register. These improvements are due to the need for public authorities to use the data of e-residents in the performance of their tasks and in the provision of services. As we know, the law does not currently provide for the central storage of e-resident data. While the Police and Border Guard Board creates an Estonian personal identity code for a person when issuing digital ID, it is not possible to obtain an extract from the population register whether it is an e-resident. That is why we are proposing to include this data in the population register, its archive section. Secondly, we have a proposal to amend the regulation on the release of data from the population register in case of legitimate interest. This relates in particular to the transfer of the tasks of the processor from AS Datavara to the Information Technology and Development Centre of the Ministry of Internal Affairs from 1 January 2016. At the same time, it provides that the county government shall, in the event of a legitimate interest, grant natural or legal persons access to the population register if one applicant requests the issue of data for up to 20 persons per month. It's more comfortable for people, but they can still get the data from the county centers. Third, a person is granted the right of access to all records of his deceased spouse, without having to assess the legitimate interest. According to the current law, it is necessary to justify every time why a person wants the identity of the deceased spouse. This is an unnecessary administrative burden. Fourthly, the proposal is to repeal the right to receive data from the population register by telephone, because we cannot identify to whom we issue personal data. It is certainly unreasonable and unsafe to supply data by telephone. Fifthly, we set a time limit from which we will ensure that a person has access to his data so that he can see which data he has recorded in the population register who has used and when. This is a very large amount of data and, without time limits, the issue of these data is very labour-intensive, so it is reasonable to provide for this restriction. Sixthly, it is proposed to amend the regulation of civil status procedures and, once again, to make matters more sensible, to introduce that the data carrier does not have to comply with the requirements of the civil status officer. This would enable us to use people more effectively. Seventhly, it is proposed to provide for state fees in cases where a person requests the issue of information on the population register in the form of a printout of his/her own child, his/her minor, guardianship or deceased spouse. It is known that people will be able to get an unconfirmed printout free of charge and, in the same way, to view the data electronically free of charge; there is no question about it. The question arises in particular in cases where a person needs a certified extract from the population register to go abroad. We are pleased that the lead committee has supported the completion of the first reading of the draft. Of course, we support the lead committee and hope that Parliament will show flexibility so that legislative changes can be adopted before 1 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U78	Thank you. You have questions. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U79	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, It is sometimes known that the data on the place of residence recorded in the population register do not match the data on the person's actual place of residence. In practice, there are situations where a person, for example, registers his or her place of residence where the local authority offers more services. There is an advantage for large and capable municipalities. Has the Ministry not planned or does not plan amendments to the Population Register Act or to the Register procedure in order to ensure that the data on the registered place of residence are consistent with the data on the actual place of residence of the person? For example, the responsibilities and rights of the authorised staff member of the register could be clarified. Is there a plan to clean up this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U80	Thank you for your question. The point of the question was clear. It's been considered. The question is that, according to the population register, there is still legal content, but individuals are free to regulate this data themselves. Indeed, the law does not provide for a sanction if a person has incorrect information in the register. As we know, information about where a person lives can change very quickly. It is governed by the General Part of the Civil Code Act. The actual data of the majority of Estonian people are consistent with the data in the population register. Problems may occur in cases where a person knowingly does not want to determine his or her place of residence. In itself, he can, if he wishes to so-called disappear, put his data in the register with the precision of the district or rural municipality. But usually, yes, municipalities have used the population register precisely to regulate the registration of residence by means of rights. I think there is no immediate need to change that. However, we do remember that political debates have discussed the question of whether it would be possible for a person to register several residences and, for example, to pass the tax on to one municipality or another. These debates are certainly ahead of us, but there is no legislative amendment at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U81	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U82	Mr. Minister! In the explanatory memorandum to the bill, it is said that some sort of records are entered into the population register. Can you tell me what archives and data are meant for and why?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U83	Thank you. The population register itself also has an archive. As I said when I was talking about e-residents, we are precisely entering their data into the population register archives. You asked me what kind of data we're transferring from other archives to the population register. These are the data needed for the population register data team. This may be, for example, data from the archives of a church or other such data, including data from the state archives, if people wish to specify their data in the population register. So this kind of right has been granted to the Population Information System, but most people included in the Population Information System have active residence data, which is also issued by the Register.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U84	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U85	Thank you, dear waitress. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. My question concerns paragraph 8 of § 1, which provides for access to data in the population register if it is requested to issue data for up to 20 persons at a time. Maybe the reason why you pulled the line to this particular place? Secondly, in what time is the county government obliged to comply with this obligation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U86	Thank you. Everyone has the right to receive data from the population register. Why did we leave a country government here? Mostly because instead of dataware, the processor is now an IT agency of the Ministry of the Interior, which the questioner knows very well, it is reasonable to provide people with access through the county government as well. Why is there "up to 20 people" here? Rather, it was a matter of negotiating with practitioners, from which the volume of data collection would become so that it would be reasonable to do so centrally. Consequently, when talking to experts and practitioners, this limit of 20 persons was chosen. How soon do you have to issue this data? It usually happens the moment a person goes there. The population register makes the print rolling and there is no need for a longer period of time unless the person himself asks for any other time. It is usually done as a waiting job, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U87	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U88	Thank you. Mr. Minister! To be honest, I was surprised by your last answer. Once, when the population register was set up, I realized that there was no purpose for the so-called recording of previous generations or for genealogy, but if so, of course, it is very interesting. However, there is also a term in the explanatory memorandum, such as the entry or transfer of data. I know what giving in Estonian means, I know what employment or occupation is, and I also know what wearing is. But can you tell us who has been able to come up with such an extraordinary chimarin term in Estonia and does it have any reasonable meaning?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U89	Thank you for your question. We also dealt with this in the Commission with you and, in the interests of the great hall, we can go over it again. We have the data and it needs to be taken from a document, and the data that has been taken from the document need to be entered in the register. Pretty logical explanation, three words: data, capture and registration. That's where the term comes in.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U90	Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have a question that there is a plan to put the personal data of e-residents in the archives section of the population register. It doesn't make any sense why the population register object data is current, but the e-resident data is not. The insertion of e-residents' data into the archive determines the status of e-residents in the population register's query system, after all, 'data missing/in the archive'. Can't this cause a lot of confusion in the query system? Would it not be wise to establish a separate status for e-residents in the Population Register Enquiry System?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U92	Thank you. No, there won't be any confusion. The current regulation and the entire population register are structured in such a way that the data of Estonian citizens and persons residing permanently in Estonia are on the active fields of the population register, which means that their residence data and other personal data are recorded in the register. Data on foreigners who live temporarily in Estonia with a residence permit, we think that similar status could be granted to e-residents, are included in the population register archives, i.e. they are not active data. This data has been stored in the population register archives from the outset. Both temporary foreign residents in Estonia and in the future e-residents are of one status and requests about them can be made in exactly the same way as when searching active data in the population register. That's what this is about, so if we want to know at any given moment how many active e-residents we have and what their data are, we're going to get it by pressing one button.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U93	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U94	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue to ask what my esteemed colleague started and ask what is meant by the expression 'data-processing' in the context of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U95	Thank you. It means a very simple thing. This means that if a person comes with a paper document and it is necessary to transfer the data from that paper into the system, that is data capture. There are data that are not in our hands, and the person comes to us with these data. Data collection in this context means that we collect data from an existing medium and collect them into the population register.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U96	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. When you get to the last answer, you transfer it from person to person or person to Riigikogu, I ask Martin Kuke, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, to enable the Riigikogu to occupy the data that is currently known to him. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U97	Good manager! People are often called individuals in this hall for some reason. But it is my job to pass on, in a short form, the debate that took place in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. On Thursday 19 November, the Constitutional Commission discussed draft law 124 amending the Population Register Act, Civil Status Act and State Fees Act, preparing it for first reading. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, explained that the main aim of the draft initiated by the Government of the Republic is to create the possibility of keeping data on e-residents in the population register. The draft also provides for the following changes: Firstly, due to the sale of the data assets of AS, which managed the population register, and the transfer of the population register to the IT and development centre SMIT, the regulation of the issuance of data is adjusted in case of legitimate interest from the population register. Under the current law, a natural or legal person can only have access to data in the population register if he or she has a legitimate interest. The draft provides that in certain cases, persons or legal persons may be able to contact the county government for access to the data. Provisions are also laid down to allow a person to obtain data in certain cases without having to assess the legitimate interest. Secondly, it amends the data transfer from civil status records to the population register, which is the term that was used to refer to claims made to persons who are working in such a way that a person who transfers data from civil status records drawn up before 1 July 2010 to the population register is not required to comply with the requirements of the civil status officer. Thirdly, the Population Register Act provides for the obligation to pay the state fee for issuing an extract from the population register or a printout to a person concerning him or her, his or her underage children, guardian or deceased spouse. The rates of state fees for this operation shall be laid down in the State Fees Act, providing that the issue of the extract or printout certified on paper is subsequently subject to payment of the state fee of EUR 5 and the issue of an electronic certified extract or printout of EUR 3. It also provides that a person has the right of access to data on his deceased spouse recorded in the population register. According to the current law, the existence of a legitimate interest must be assessed. Among other things, the provision allowing a person to request access to data entered in the population register by telephone is repealed on the grounds that it is not possible to identify the person. A time limit shall also be laid down as from which time the person shall be granted access to his or her data. As the transfer of the population register to SMIT takes place from 1 January, these changes are also planned to take effect from 1 January 2016. Members of the Commission asked the Minister for the Interior and the representative of the Ministry of the Interior for further questions on the draft. The Commission was asked to clarify the concept of e-resident and who could be granted e-residency. The Minister replied that e-residency is the legal status of a person who has been granted an e-resident's digital identity card, i.e. e-ID, on the basis of the Identity Documents Act. The Identity Documents Act provides clear grounds for a person to be able to issue such a document. The Minister of the Interior has the right to give e-ID to certain persons even without their personal statement, for example at the request of the President of the Republic. It was asked whether the data on Estonian citizens and residents and foreigners living in Estonia contained in the population register should be supplemented by a third group of data on foreigners who do not live in Estonia. The Ministry of the Interior explained that these data already exist in the register. For example, if someone wants to be an employer in Estonia but lives in Bulgaria, he or she will also be given a personal identity code so that he or she can pay taxes and have social security in Estonia. Similarly, the register contains data on e-residents, as they receive a personal identification code and in the process they are entered in the register. These persons are not the objects of the population register within the meaning of the Population Register Act, such as Estonian citizens, but their data are stored in the archives of the Population Register. It's the same story that used to sound. However, there is currently no record of e-residency on these data. It is necessary for public authorities that need a separate list of e-residents to obtain this information from the population register. The Member of the Commission noted that the term 'data entry from the civil status act' was included in the draft. I will not be more specific about the debate that has taken place, as the Member of the Commission also asked for it in the large Chamber and received a reply from the Minister. The Commission noted that there had previously been difficulties in charging a different fee for issuing data from the traffic register, depending on whether the data was issued on paper or electronically. It was found to be unconstitutional because it discriminated against a particular group of people. The representative of the Ministry replied that it is now stipulated at law level that electronic data transmission is cheaper than on paper. It asked how the rates of state fees provided for in the draft were calculated. The Minister replied that the State Fees Act required that the rates of state fees be set on a cost-based basis. The state fee charged for the service has been calculated in such a way that the state fee is commensurate with the time and average remuneration required for the operation. In addition, it must be taken into account that there is cross-subsidisation between the different registers and the state fees. It is expected that the costs of maintaining the population register covered by the state fees charged for population registering operations will be covered, but these costs will not actually be covered by the state fees at present. Finally, the Commission also made decisions. Firstly, it was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 26 November 2015 (the decision was consensual). Secondly, it was decided to propose the termination of the first reading (consensus decision). Thirdly, it was decided to propose a deadline of 3 December 2015 at 5.15 p.m. (also a consensual decision). Fourthly, Martin Kukk, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was appointed rapporteur. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U98	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are questions for you. Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U99	Thanks! For the sake of clarity, I will continue with this e-resident's file entry. However, different estimates may lead to problems and failures in information systems that inherit data from the population register. There are information systems that do not take into account the data in the archive when searching. Can't this cause a lot of confusion and finally, court cases? Did the Commission mention this in detail?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U100	Thank you. As I recall in the Commission, this was not mentioned in detail. But after the first reading, you can come back to your question in committee and look more specifically at whether or not there may be problems. As a result of the information we learn during the discussion of the matter, we can decide whether or not something needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U101	Thank you. No further questions. Do the political groups want to start negotiations? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 124. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting 124 amendments, including 3 December at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U102	Let's go to the last item on the agenda today. The first reading of the Act amending the State Border Act, the Police and Border Guard Act and the State Border Act, the Customs Act and the Police and Border Guard Act is initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U103	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! A quick overview of the draft, which was read by the Head of the title. In broad terms, this draft has three objectives: the first concerns Passenger Name Record (PNR) for air travel, the second concerns waiting areas for border crossings and the third concerns police action to guard the border. As far as Parliament is aware, in 2014 amendments to the Passenger Name Record (PNR) for air travel were already adopted. At that time, there was an understanding that it would be reasonable to process PNR data in the border control database. However, given that time has passed and technical analyses have reached the point that this system is not the most appropriate one in three years, it is reasonable to include PNR data in a separate database. This job is underway. The second item on Passenger Name Record (PNR) concerns the protection of personal data. We know that the data subject always has the right to receive this data from the database. There is one difference here: because of the fight against terrorism, the Police and Border Guard Board will in future be able to restrict the right of a person to receive data, namely in relation to the processing of terrorist offences or other serious criminal offences. The third amendment relating to PNR concerns a term such as 'pseudononymised data'. It is possible and necessary to make passenger data anonymous, which is then called pseudonymised data. Once again, it must be possible to dismantle these pseudonymised data, if necessary, in the fight against terrorism for the investigation and resolution of terrorist offences, in order to make them visible again at the level of personal data. It is also proposed to make it clear that a sanction is provided for if an air carrier does not transmit PNR data. A natural person may be fined by up to 300 daily penalty units and a legal person by up to EUR 6400. When speaking about waiting areas for border crossings, it is very important that the current regulation clearly states what the service provider must offer in the waiting area for border crossings, but this system is too inflexible. The current agreements will end next spring and we want to review the situation. As a result of customs work, the border queues of small cars, especially at the southeast border, have almost disappeared. Therefore, it is unwise to lay down such precise provisions, i.e. the conditions for the future operation of the waiting area service should be relaxed. When guarding a state border, the current regulation allows border guards of the Police and Border Guard Board to use private roads unhindered, but it is clear that this regulation is not sufficient. Private areas are also needed to guard the border, as do the border bodies. For this reason, regulation on both border water bodies and private countries has now been clarified in order to give the officials of the Police and Border Guard Board the right to be present there. These are the proposed changes. We support the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, sorry, it was the Committee on Legal Affairs, to conclude the first reading. If possible, this draft should also be dealt with before 1 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U104	Thank you. You have questions. Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Although the issue of Passenger Name Record (PNR) system for air passengers was also discussed here during the previous term and has not been discussed in several institutions over the years, I am happy to give you the opportunity, however, to say briefly to the large Chamber what the value of PNR data for air passengers is for one of the Member States of the European Union, which will actually benefit from it and what its impact will also be on the fight against crime. The second part of my question concerns where we have reached in the timetable of this same development project. The explanatory memorandum also gives a nice description of the financial calculations, but at what point do you think we could implement this system and how do we proceed in this timetable that has been mentioned?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U106	Thank you. I'll start with the first question. For the sake of the verbatim report, I would like to say once again that it is PNR or passenger name record, i.e. PNR data for air passengers. If you buy a flight ticket, you can see the PNR or booking code under which your flight details are recorded: who you are, who you are flying to and how much baggage you have. This data is already being exchanged between Europe and the United States and between continental Europe and Great Britain. Great Britain already uses PNR data for air travel, and the European Union has agreed that the PNR system should come as soon as possible. To make it clear to the questioner that the European Parliament is in the process of codecision on this matter. The representative of the European Parliament attended the meeting of the Council of Ministers last Friday and promised that Parliament would make every effort to have Parliament's decision taken by 1 January and to have the system in force, including what is very important to us, so that flights within the European Union are also reflected in this system. Of course, it is also important to us that if a possible criminal, who we have prior information about or information about from the past, sits on a plane, it is known when he will arrive in Estonia and will be able to meet him politely. Not only in the fight against terrorism, but also in the fight against other crime, such data need to be retrieved and exchanged with other Member States. Now that we have seen recent terrorist attacks in Paris, and we also know from the data published in the media that people moved between Member States, which can also use aircraft, it is very important that this information exchange takes place between Member States, so that the fight against terrorism can be better addressed. About the schedule, we're on a good schedule. As the good questioner remembers, since 1 January, the system must be ready, it is being tested now and we hope that there will be no failure. But once again, in order to implement this system in full, we must wait for the decision of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U107	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm just going to be more specific for the sake of the verbatim. I hope that you, the Ministry and the Government will support the decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, not the Committee on Legal Affairs, to conclude the first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U109	I'm sorry! Still the decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that was my mistake. I once said that the decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but for some confusing reason, I said that it was the decision of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Yes, in the interests of the verbatim report, it must be said that it was decided to support the Committee on Constitutional Affairs' proposal to conclude the first reading. However, if the Committee on Legal Affairs wants to make an opinion, we will support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U110	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U111	Thank you. A draft of a basic regulation consisting of the titles of parts of the basic regulation is annexed to the draft. One of these is the legal meaning of 'data collection data'. I cannot imagine that some basic regulation can define the legal meaning, it should still be before the basic regulation. But since the bill doesn't make this clear, can you say, within the limits of the possibilities, what is the legal meaning of PNR data?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U112	Thank you. The legal meaning of PNR data is very simple. First, only the data required by law will be collected in the database. Secondly, this data can be processed and information acquired during processing can be used, where appropriate, to restrict the fundamental rights of a person, such as in criminal proceedings. In this sense, these data can only be used in strict accordance with agreed standards, i.e. the bases set out in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U113	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U114	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have a question about the waiting areas for border crossings. Firstly, why do Luhamaa and Koidula have different prices? But more importantly, these waiting areas have hardly been used for a long time. All the cashier's asking is that they turn around in the waiting area, then we can move on right now. Why, however, has this bureaucratic procedure not been abolished so far, and for months to come, until the next spring, this procedure must be in place? I'm not very familiar with the order of the trucks, but cars haven't had any queues in months.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U115	Thank you. Let's start from the beginning. Why are there different prices? For a very simple reason. There are five service providers in the waiting areas, both in Ida-Virus and South-East Estonia. In order to find them, there was a public procurement and these prices were also generated during the procurement process. As regards the existence of a waiting area, I fully agree with you that the situation needs to be changed. I've said it, too. You said there were no queues. There are many queues because there is electronic pre-registration and if necessary a waiting area is used. In its time, five years ago, when this system was created, it may not have been possible to foresee that the use of waiting areas would decrease as a result of a change in relations between the two countries and changes in customs rules. But electronic registration is definitely necessary. As I said, we will introduce a new system from the moment the old contracts end. If we wanted to terminate the contracts immediately, we would have to pay the contractual partners both the loss of fees and the contractual penalties. In my opinion, it makes no sense, but it makes sense to prepare a new regime that will enter into force from spring next year when the old agreements end.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U116	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U117	Thank you. Commenting on your answer to my previous question, I say that what you said was all right, but that there would have been some legal aspect, I could not say that. But here's the term 'pseudonation'. This is, of course, a foreign word that is very well known in Estonia, but in Estonian it has a narrower meaning than in French or English, for example, it is used in the fields of literature and art. We also have a'shadow name' in our own language, and there are many other synonyms. Is this not another stylistic translation of the Euro Directive or another rule? Do you have any important reasons why this foreign language option is better than any possible version in your own language?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U118	Thank you. First of all, as far as the legal meaning is concerned, there is a very simple reason. As PNR data for air passengers means handling personal data, the scope and limits of the way in which we collect and process these data and the basis on which law enforcement authorities are able to view these data and, for example, refuse to give the person the data collected about them. [[Reply from the floor.]] The database also has legal meaning. We have a database, we have to say that we collect data, this data is transferred to the database, and the Data Protection Inspectorate can also monitor the database in this case. As far as pseudonymised data is concerned, given that we have fine regulation in close conjunction with European Union legislation, it makes sense to use similar terms. If we use the non-international concept, it can cause problems, there may be misunderstandings between countries. At present, such a term is justified; in any other case, Estonian terms are of course used.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U119	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U120	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of the Interior! The PNR database should start running from the new year. What about this kind of database in our neighbouring countries? It's not right now, I understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U121	Thank you. The European Commission allocated specific resources to those Member States that needed to set up these databases and regulations. I think there were 15 of these countries, but I might be wrong, I can be more specific later. These funds were allocated to ensure that these databases, as well as regulations, exist in all Member States. Estonia received nearly four million euros from the European Union, if I remember correctly. It gave us a chance to create a database. The same obligation applies to other Member States that do not yet have such a database, still because there is no point in setting up a PNR system if it is not possible to exchange information with all Member States. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U122	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U123	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Thursday 19 November 2015. The representatives of the Ministry of Interior presented to the Commission the draft law amending the State Border Act, the Police and Border Guard Act and the State Border Act, the Customs Act and the Police and Border Guard Act. The first amendment, as the Minister has just announced here, concerned the conclusion of administrative contracts with service providers in the border crossing waiting area. The contracts concluded with the Ministry of the Interior, the service providers in the border crossing lounge and the database administrators will expire in May 2016. The current State Border Act describes in detail the requirements to be met by the waiting area services for border crossings. The draft aims to alleviate these requirements by providing for the establishment of requirements in an administrative agreement between the Minister responsible for the sector and the service provider. The Commission noted that there was also a recent debate on this issue in the Committee on Legal Affairs and asked whether the new regime would rule out people passing through the waiting area and not have to pay for any unused service. That's what they asked here today. The representative of the Ministry replied that the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the current situation at border crossing points in South-East Estonia, where there are no queues, but that vehicles must enter the waiting area and pay a waiting period. According to § 83 (4) of the State Border Act, the fee for the use of a waiting area for border crossings may not be charged if the driver does not use a waiting area service for border crossings. At the same time, according to the applicable national border law, waiting area service providers must check the compliance of the person with the data entered in the border ranking information system, irrespective of the availability of the queue. In essence, it is also justified in order to be able to verify whether a person has reserved a place in order or whether he or she is bypassing someone. It is therefore a statutory obligation to carry out certain activities and is considered to be a service. The draft law abolishes such rigid requirements for waiting area providers and lays down their obligations in an administrative contract. The Ministry is preparing new procurement terms. There is also a possibility that if there is no physical queue, the person will not have to use the waiting area and pay any fees. This will be agreed in an administrative agreement to be concluded in May 2016. The Ministry's representative noted that the draft proposal proposes to amend the legal framework for the transmission and processing of PNR data for air passengers established by the State Border Act, the Customs Act and the Police and Border Guard Act, which will enter into force on 1 January 2016. The Ministry's initial proposal, which was made some time ago, provided that the PNR system for collecting PNR data would be set up within the Border Guard Information System. However, the development of the information system has found that the PNR system cannot be created within the existing information system. Firstly, there are performance problems and secondly, the purposes of data processing in databases are different. The draft aims to establish a basis in the National Border Act for the transfer and processing of PNR data in order to create a separate database. The Member of the Commission wanted to know when it was discovered that the PNR system could not be built into the existing information system. The representative of the Ministry replied that this had been revealed during the development of the information system over the last six months and that development work and the finding of contracting authorities had taken time. The Member of the Commission asked for clarification of the meaning of the term "Estonia's internal border' contained in the draft text and for which it is different from the term "Estonia's external border'. According to § 1 (7) of the draft law, § 97 of the State Border Act is to be supplemented, paragraph 1 of which provides that a carrier who transfers passengers arriving in Estonia and leaving Estonia by air across the internal or external borders of Estonia will transmit PNR data to the Police and Border Guard Board. The Minister of the Interior felt that this could be a provision resulting from the Directive and that it was probably intended for the borders of the Member States, since, within the meaning of the European Union, the borders of the Member States were to be regarded as internal borders. The Member of the Commission noted that in this case it was the European Union, not the Estonian internal border, and asked for this term to be clarified. In advance, I can say that the Ministry of the Interior has clarified this and made certain proposals to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Commission made a critical remark on the title of the draft and asked for the draft to be taken into account when initiating the draft in order to make the title sound. Indeed, the current title is shuffling, long, and repeating. What was decided? It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 26 November 2015 (consensually), that the first reading be closed (consensually), that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 3 December 2015 (consensually), and that Mr Laane, President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, be appointed as rapporteur (this decision was consensual). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U124	Thank you. You have a question. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U125	Thank you. Good colleague! Say in two words what will change for ordinary people if we vote in favour of this law. Perhaps you will say in two words, not in the sentences that were said in the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U126	Thank you, good questioner! I can't quite do it in two words, but I'm trying to handle two sentences. Firstly, the procedures for approaching and crossing national borders are being made more flexible. Now, if there are very rigid rules in the law, how it should be done, then the law is being tried to be straightened out, and precise rules are being laid down in an administrative contract. The second key objective should be to gather information for the fight against terrorism and the prevention of terrorism. We will have air passengers' data, in anonymous form, but it will be possible, as the Minister said, to unravel them if necessary. These are the two most important objectives of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-26_U127	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 141. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for tabling 141 amendments, including 3 December at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, we are done with the points on today's agenda. Thank you. Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 12.22 p.m.
