ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! There are 51 members of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi and Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu will participate in the Question Hour. Given the number of people who had to ask yesterday, I would like to give you an opportunity to submit an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U2	The first questioner is Jüri Adams, and the question is for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U3	Mr. Prime Minister! My question has something to do with personal interest, as it has rarely been here before. And it's based on one of the BNS's 4th-date news headlined "Inside Ministry doesn't support a couple's draft law." Since I'm one of the initiators of this, it would be interesting to ask a little bit about it. I understand that the government has taken seriously the obligation to inform the relevant Riigikogu committee of its opinion. But maybe you could explain why it has been decided that it is the Ministry of the Interior that has the best competence to formulate an opinion on such a matter? Secondly, the content of this letter, which one minister has sent to another and which has leaked into the press, has not been deliberately leaked, but rather an accident at work? Would it not be possible to publish this letter now, because, as far as its content is concerned, the press has so-called "intrigue"?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U4	Thank you. In accordance with the rules in force, the Government is shaping its opinion on all draft laws submitted by Parliament. And what kind of minister and which ministry is specifically responsible for shaping this opinion and who will help the entire government to reach that opinion is a matter which is mostly resolved by the Secretary of State and the State Chancellery. In this case, as far as I know, the Minister of Justice is responsible. The Minister of Home Affairs has an accompanying role here, and he has indeed given the Minister of Justice his input, and there is nothing secret about it. Just as all other letters exchanged between ministers are completely public, and I do not mind giving you the copy I have at my disposal immediately after Question Time. There's not a single secret in here. And as far as I know, there hasn't been any leaks. As I said, the documents are public. The titles of documents are well seen in the document registers, and the cases where journalists look at these registers are not uncommon. And if they see anything interesting in there, they'll just ask for those letters. So I believe that this is also the case with this letter.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U5	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U6	Thank you, Prime Minister. This area is quite strange to me, and I didn't think so or so. But let's take it "procedurally." Even if there was no leak, this letter was obviously not intended to be addressed to the public. In such cases, if there is no anonymous translation of the content and theft of a foreign letter, should none of the participants send the press an explanation of what is right and wrong? Maybe some things are missing, and the journalist has decided to give up whatever he wants.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U7	Thank you. Like I said, it's a public letter. I'm ready to leak it to you now and right across the table. As far as the way journalists deal with one subject or another is concerned, it is difficult enough for you and I to get involved. Our press is one of the freest in the world. The press itself chooses which topics and to what extent it makes news. Of course, if there are direct factual errors on the news, we both have the opportunity to point them out and, as a rule, journalists also correct the factual errors. But if someone leaves one of yours out of the story, or one that suits me, we cannot, unfortunately, be influenced, because that is already the decision of a particular journalist. I am not quite sure which particular stories you refer to in your question. But if you want to look at this subject more widely, you will probably also have the opportunity to explain to the public what exactly your position is on this issue, whether in an opinion story or in an interview that you have agreed on. I, too, would be very interested in finding out what the Free Party's position is on this rather important and very much discussed issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U8	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U9	The next question is the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, In the law of political parties, we are very clear about which positions are accompanied by a restriction on membership of political parties, in which cases parties may not belong. I would argue that, moreover, we have somehow developed some arbitrary or practicable restrictions on people's political activities. And whether or not someone belongs to a political party, basically everyone can search the public register within a minute. This is also done by employers when assessing people's suitability. The first question is this: how justified do you think it is that we have a country register of political party membership and that we have not left this task to the parties themselves? Is it practical to define such information and membership in a very clear way, or may there be shadows in certain cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U11	Thank you, Honourable Asker. In my opinion, Estonia has chosen a transparent society. I think that the aim, too, that a person's political involvement in associations is public when political forces are seeking to exercise public authority is basically the right way to do this. The exercise of this right or obligation is subject to the condition that persons are not persecuted, are not put under pressure because of their political convictions, political parties or membership of another political association. And the right not to be subject to such pressure is protected, among other things, by the relevant provisions of the Penal Code. It is true that, in many countries, membership of a political party is indeed not public information. Its motive is, on the one hand, to avoid restricting the fundamental right or, on the other hand, to have a different approach to the privacy of a person in society. Estonia has chosen a transparent path. This concerns criminal record data as well as political party membership data. And I basically think this chosen path is the right way.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U12	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U13	Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I will continue with this transparency issue here. The Free Party has one very painful experience. On our list of candidates for the Riigikogu, Heldur-Valdek Seederit, please do not confuse him with our esteemed deputy speaker, this is his brother, who was pressured to give up both party membership and application. He worked as the head of the PBA at the time, but not as a police officer. I would point out that police officers are subject to a restriction on their membership of a party, but not to a restriction on their application. To date, the Public Prosecutor's Office has dealt with his complaint following repeated rejection under pressure from the District Court. As Minister of Justice, how do you ensure that this and other analogous cases are indeed discussed in substance and that there is no end to unjustified pressure on people for political action guaranteed by fundamental rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U14	Thank you. If judicial proceedings are still ongoing, I cannot take a stand as Minister of Justice in specific individual cases. These decisions are still left to the judicial authorities on the basis of the principle of separation of powers. As regards whether there are clear restrictions on the exercise of political rights in Estonia, both the right to stand as a candidate and the right to belong to a political party, if the person is not covered by these restrictions, there is no doubt that he or she cannot be given any such conditions outside the law. It is not possible to require a person to stand as a candidate, to terminate his or her political status or vice versa, for example, someone who has authority or influence over that person may not require him or her to enter a political party. These views are generally unambiguous, but I stress once again that I cannot make assessments and take a position on the circumstances of a particular case. These decisions are taken by judicial authorities and these rights can only be protected by independent judicial authorities. In my opinion, our country's law enforcement system has sufficient resources to ensure the protection of fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U15	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U16	The next question is for the Minister of Education and Science, Jürgen Ligi. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Education and Science! Yesterday, in the Committee on Culture, Mr Prime Minister and I began a very fruitful and promising discussion on the field of research and development, but apparently the subject must also be brought to the attention of the curating minister in this area. My concern is what I could mention yesterday, too, that we have a considerable degree of disproportion in favour of the development of scientific disciplines. And I once again argue that the humanities and national sciences, which are considered a national attribute, are on our third plan because they have not become the engine of economics according to general understanding. However, this is an area which is important for the sustainability of the state and which can only be studied in Estonia and not written off elsewhere. Do you share the view that there is a need for a political decision here that the national attribute should be developed more forcefully than it has been so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U18	Thank you. I share your concern and the view that funding for research and development should increase in itself. As far as the internal distribution of this money is concerned, of course, I join in knowing that the national sciences are Estonia's own concern and responsibility. However, we must apply so-called positive discrimination in other areas as well; national sciences are already subject to positive discrimination. There is probably too much emphasis on technical disciplines in these public messages, and the attention given to them is greater. There is greater practical demand for them on the labour market, greater labour shortages and greater direct impact on the economy. That's why they talk so much about them. But it cannot be said that national sciences are unpopular and that learners have less interest in them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U19	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U20	However, I will try to prioritise the issue once again and point out that the applied side of national sciences is undeveloped. We dream that when refugees come, we will be able to integrate them, integrate them, and so on. But that's impossible until our own national sciences are weak and partly written off our neighbours until they're texts of strangers covered in places and places once more. I am particularly concerned that history is also a weapon of diplomacy and ideology. That is where we are hopelessly lagging behind our neighbours and their disputes. We are not prepared to use archival data from different countries in ideological and diplomatic discussions. Our most important documents are elsewhere. The State has not taken an interest in providing itself with arguments.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U21	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U22	Isn't that the warning signal that something needs to be done at government level?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U23	Thank you. I'm sure your position of great authority is a signal to me. But if you want more specific answers, some numbers or proportions, I should, of course, look them up. You yourself did not specify which neighbour you were talking about, either Latvia, Finland or some other neighbour, but I understand the concern. In any case, this aspect is also important for national sciences, not only topical but also, of course, long-term problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U24	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U25	Still a respected minister! Today we are going to have a draft state budget for the third reading here. On Monday, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we needed to decide on the amendments made by your ministry, by which you proposed that more than 5.5 million of the motivated teachers' programme be converted into a research and development programme. On our question, what will then become of teachers' salaries, it was answered that according to your ministry's calculations, the increase in teachers' salaries is still possible. Would you be so kind as to explain to us where these changes have come from? How come there wasn't money before to raise teachers' salaries, but now it is, even though they're taking 5.5 million out of their program?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U26	Thank you. It is certainly not true that money has been taken away from the increase in teachers' salaries. What a huge problem in our budget is the fact that millions of people are important on a temporary basis. And there's no way we can afford to pay with temporary coverage. Now we are doing this indirectly for the future. 7.2 million private schools come from temporary sources to cover costs. And we're taking the big risk of scraping the salary increase again in 2017 because it ends. In this sense, I am not accidentally saying that the rise in the pay of teachers is directly linked to the draft laws that are in the process. So please take this seriously! Similarly, the 2016 budget has money, but I do not currently have these budgetary changes ahead of me. So I can't answer with certainty what you're talking about. We haven't taken anything away from the teachers' payroll, but I need to clarify what we're talking about. Sometimes I can give you a more specific answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U27	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U28	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U29	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! The OECD's recent study mentions Estonia among those countries where the increase in the tax burden is one of the highest compared to last year. And we also remember how, in the spring here, the so-called cluster bill was pushed through quite a considerable package of tax increases. Businesses who also expressed their interest in Äripäev believe that one of the biggest brakes of the Estonian economy in recent years is the tax increase, which eats our competitiveness and prevents the creation of new jobs. My question is this: does the government intend to take steps to halt tax increases, perhaps to reverse them? And how does the fact that the OECD has drawn up such a report come together with the rhetoric of the Reform Party because we do not have taxes rising and are being humiliated by the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U30	Thank you. I understand that this issue is a little more complicated and therefore allow me to explain it in more detail. First of all, labour taxes, which are the most burdensome taxes for the economy, are clearly falling both this year, for which this report applies, and next year. It is true that taxes on harmful consumption, in particular alcohol and tobacco, will increase to more or less the same extent both this year and next year. It can be said that these tax changes are broadly balanced. So they do not have a significant impact on the tax burden when taken separately. Secondly, the tax burden also depends very much on the tax behaviour of companies and people. In other words, if the tax treatment of people and companies improves and in Estonia it has improved considerably, partly thanks to the laws adopted by Parliament, the tax burden will increase statistically without any new taxes being imposed without any increase in the tax burden. In this case, the tax burden has increased, for example, as a result of a significantly better collection of corporate tax, despite the fact that no changes to the corporate tax rate have been made. And as exciting as it may seem, the mere fact that Swedbank paid an irregular income of EUR 100 million as a one-off profit allocation means that this 100 million, which is about 0.5% of GDP, is the result of an increase in the tax burden. Both you and I understand perfectly that, in fact, some tax rates did not increase, the company simply decided to pay more taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U31	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U32	Thank you for your answer. Now an additional thought development, I guess you could say, in the form of a question. I think that the government has done a very good job in principle, which is reflected in the fact that our tax administration has certainly made progress in tax collection and tax receipts are very good. But sometimes I think the IRS is overreacting. One of the issues I want to touch on here is that, some time ago, there was a sharp catcher hunt on the agenda for OÜ. In this context, it was pointed out that the so-called 'hunting' of OÜ is quite painful for our small business. It is simply not possible for many small businesses to create permanent jobs, to keep people permanently on the payroll. My question is this: has the government come to conclusions and intends to avoid such extremes in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U33	Thank you. As far as the other side of the question is concerned, I believe that unprofessional journalists did a very large disservice to enterprising people by starting to name a very important business format, a private company in a derogatory word. I find this inappropriate and disincentive to entrepreneurial initiative. It would be very regrettable if the word 'entrepreneur' was given the same negative connotation as 10 to 15 years ago was attributed to 'businessman'. In my opinion, we have the entrepreneurial spirit in a very high price and in a negative sense of the business format in question, which was long cultivated by Äripäev without understanding that they have made a mistake or, at least without wanting to admit that they have made a mistake, certainly does not have a good impact on the business climate. As regards the first part of your question, I fully agree that the tax administration has done a very good job. The tax office has, of course, supported, on the basis of the laws adopted by Parliament, the fact that the tax environment has become more honest. They have worked very hard to achieve this, and I would certainly like to congratulate them. But more importantly, I would like to congratulate all those companies that, in cooperation with the tax administration, have improved tax discipline. It wasn't just a tax fight. A more honest tax environment is in the interests of the State, but above all, it is in the interests of the undertakings themselves, because then they know that competitors will not receive unfair advantages. I thank all those companies who have supported the tax administration in this fight.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U34	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U35	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! Yes, it is right that the ratio of the tax burden to GDP depends on how well taxes are collected. But it also depends on how fast taxes rise or fall and how fast the economy, or 'base', grows. The problem with Estonia is that the economy is not growing rapidly and it is not visible that this growth will accelerate. Our second problem is that we are always losing our competitive advantage and success story compared to countries on the same starting line or operating under the same conditions. Latvia and Lithuania are passing us. Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher knew perfectly well that the private sector is what creates wealth, and high taxes are what inhibits private sector activities. Can you tell us briefly, even in a slogan, if necessary, what is the government's plan to improve our competitiveness and exports?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U36	Thank you. There were a number of statements and questions, and I'm trying to answer them. First of all, I would be very pleased if Latvia and Lithuania were to do very well, but your assessment that they are bypassing us is, to put it mildly, misleading. However, Latvia and Lithuania are far behind us in terms of both people's income and absolute economic figures. And if they catch up with us, or if they take steps to get a little closer to Estonia, in any case, it is positive, because the better it is for our neighbours, the better it will be for us. But it doesn't look like they're passing us anywhere. Look at the average wage figures, look at the tax collection figures, look at the absolute GDP figures, and you will see that real life is still a long way from your claim. Now for the second thing. You rightly emphasised that the structure of the economy also depends very much on the tax burden. And indeed, in Estonia, wage growth has been much faster in recent years than nominal economic growth. This means that the share of wages in the economy has increased proportionally as input, as wages have been significantly higher than capital both in Estonia and in most other countries. And the result is that rapid wage growth has also led to an increase in the statistical tax burden without an increase in wage taxes. On the contrary, taxes on wages, as you well know, have fallen and will continue to fall in Estonia. As far as export support is concerned, it is certainly possible to emphasise this when answering the following questions. I think it is very right that the government also strives to ensure that Estonian companies do well in export markets.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U37	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U38	The next questioner is Krista Aru and answers the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We have a beautiful, nice and correct strategy The major objectives of the VET programme are to create the necessary quality, flexible and diverse vocational training opportunities for Estonia, but also to renew the entire financing model for vocational training. The new financing model was due to be completed this year and will be operational as early as next year. How far away is this model, and is its basis also linked to the cost of the curriculum that the VET network has repeatedly addressed itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U40	Thank you. You're striking me with a single question. In this format, unexpected events are foreseen in themselves, but I can't tell the exact stage yet. We're working on it. We are also working on the reform of vocational education in general. There have been a number of volume and overinvestment problems and there has been a need for consolidation. We are also adjusting the financing model. But I'd still report it when it's time to report. I'm sorry, but I wasn't exactly expecting this question. It probably makes no sense for me to say more until ministerial decisions have been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U41	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your answer. I'm going to be more specific, and I'm going to ask you more. Has the cost of the curriculum been mentioned? In vocational education, has the cost of the curriculum been raised as a topic before the public order was approved? It has been known for years to be one of the foundations on which vocational education and training schools apply for funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U43	Thank you. General education schools have also asked how much the curriculum costs and said that you do not know. I must admit that there is no precise answer to the question of an answer that is undisputed. We are clearly aware of our resources every year. We know very noble goals and very noble content about how to reach them. But overall, these goals must be achieved within the limits of the available resources and the costs of the curriculum we will find out afterwards. So there really is no such direct answer, although the school leaders often ask for it. However, for us there are different ratios and efficiency indicators that we need to adjust. We have too optimistic plans for the past in vocational education, let's say. The fact is that the number of students is also falling there, although, fortunately, their share in the total number of students is not falling. So we're dealing with costs and efficiency, but not that we're writing a plan and then putting a sign on it. Unfortunately, this cannot be done in a situation of limited resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U44	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U45	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U46	Thank you. Prime Minister! My question, too, concerns a fresh OECD study, which points out that our recent increase in tax burden has been one of the biggest in all compared to other Member States. You have stressed that things are in balance because you have reduced taxes on labour. However, a half-percent reduction in social tax has led to a health crisis and you have failed to reduce the unemployment insurance contribution that was mentioned in the coalition agreement. While you constantly stress before the elections that you are lowering taxes, after the elections you are still raising them a lot. And it is indirect taxes, which are among the highest if we look at our tax structure in the European context. We are already approaching Bulgaria's level. I would like to stress that in eight years you have raised these taxes 20 times. I am asking you how you will comment on this OECD study and whether the poor economic situation has affected the fact that you have to raise taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U47	Thank you. First of all, in comparison with the OECD, Estonia continues to be among the countries with lower tax burdens and will certainly remain there. I am a little surprised that it is you who are concerned about the rise in the tax burden, although you know that this is a statistical change that I described just in response to Mart Helme, and in your party's programme, if you read it in this way, the tax increase is at the end of the tax increase. If implemented, the Estonian OECD would no longer be among the countries with a lower tax burden, but on the other end. I certainly don't think that's right. However, I always think it right that the most important and most growth-inhibiting taxes clearly fall. This concerns, in particular, labour taxes. And every time your party is ready to vote in favour of reducing labour taxes, you can be sure that I am grateful. That's one. Secondly, what is the cost of reducing labour taxes? In general, we in Parliament have a consensus that alcohol and tobacco should not become cheaper in the shop than people's incomes. If people's incomes are growing rapidly, it is also logical and so far the parties have shared this, i.e. no one has voted against it, as far as I know, then excise duties on alcohol and tobacco must also grow. So, if you take this into account, you will see that our tax structure has moved in a very reasonable direction: labour taxes have decreased and taxes on the most harmful, unhealthy consumption, or alcohol and tobacco consumption, have increased. And as you know, the reason why the tax burden has increased statistically is, in fact, improved tax behaviour.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U48	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U49	Thank you. You've been reading our program pretty badly. The Centre Party has always opposed indirect tax increases. And you lost tax distinctions this time too, which brought bigger taxes to hotels and so on. I would also stress that we are against tax increases because consumption taxes are of a regressive nature, they affect the people with the lowest incomes most. However, if we look at the economic situation, according to Eurostat's recent data, Estonia's third-quarter economic growth is only 0.5% compared to a year ago. The Latvian economy grew by 3.3% and Lithuania by 1.7%. It's like we're shrinking. If we do not take inflation into account, we have basically had zero growth in recent years. That's what Prime Minister Tiit Vähi once said, by the way. The National Audit Office has given you many teachings on how to help the economy to grow. How much do you agree with this criticism, and what do you intend to do to make our situation better?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U50	Thank you. First of all, if you say that the Centre Party has always been against the rise in indirect taxes, let me make it clear that this has not been the case at all. Indirect taxes are also excise duties on alcohol and tobacco. As far as I know, you have supported the increase in excise duties on alcohol and tobacco in the past, and I hope that you will continue to support it in the future. The Centre Party has also proposed to increase taxes on labour, which are directly linked to people's income. However, labour taxes have fallen in recent years, contrary to the focus of your programme, and I believe that they should also fall in the future, because they directly concern the amount of money that people will have from year to year, and there is also the potential for economic growth. But we accept that we have disagreements on economic issues. It would be very strange if the Centre Party and the Reform Party found a consensus on this very quickly. And I think it will only enrich Estonia's policy when there is debate on tax issues. Speaking of growth, yesterday's Eurostat news was premature. Eesti Pank presented more precise figures today. Eurostat's news was made on the basis of the flash estimate. The revised numbers are somewhat better, but not good enough. I, too, am not satisfied with the current economic growth in Estonia, and we have already taken several steps with the government to contribute to the acceleration of economic growth. Since time is limited here, I can only say two more keywords that need to be focused on. These are productivity gains and exports.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U51	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U52	Thank you, Prime Minister. We have recently concluded an agreement with the CARIFORUM States, many of which are called tax havens, where corporate income tax is mostly 3%. And that's the 3% they generally manage their country, that's where all the businessmen run together. In Estonia, the company's income tax is 0%. Please tell me why the whole world does not run into Estonia to register its businesses here!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U53	Thank you. If we look at the biggest obstacles to the development of the Estonian economy 15 or 20 years ago, one of them was clearly a lack of capital. At the time, in my opinion, the right decision was made that from 2000 (15 years ago, soon 16 years ago) the tax system came into force, which encouraged foreign investments, but also investments by Estonia's own companies. If you still don't have to pay tax on reinvested profits, then you'll find it quite simply that the investment environment is very attractive. This tax scheme is actually working very well to date. It works so well that the lack of investment is no longer considered to be among the more serious problems of the Estonian economy. Rather, it is said that labour taxes need to be lowered, and that is also the clear position of the party that I manage. It is also said that people's knowledge, skills and experience must be contributed. We will certainly be discussing this in more detail next Tuesday, when I have a very pleasant opportunity to speak here before you about the future direction of R &amp; D and innovation. However, we can briefly dwell on this now, saying that an increase in people's qualifications so that more and more expensive products can be produced per person is a keyword that will contribute to economic growth in the future. This is something that must be pursued and favoured by the tax system, which is why I have been and will be opposed in the future to higher taxation on wages. This would actually discourage the growth of people's wages in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U54	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U55	The next question is for the Minister of Education and Science, Jürgen Ligi. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U56	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In October, the Ministry of Education sent an e-mail to schools inviting teachers to participate in training on the situation of Lesbians, Gays, Bisexuals and Transsexuals in School and Education. The training was carried out by the Canadian homo organization Egale. My question is why the Ministry of Education, which you manage, does not support traditional family values and does homopropaganda in schools with the support of foreign homo-organisations.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U57	Thank you for that question. I don't know, by the way, that there were foreign homo organizations here. However, it was a domestic organization, and it could satisfy you. I don't even know that it would have been a letter from the Ministry of Education. The Ministry of Education was one of the technical organisers of the Estonian same-sex organization, they have a complicated name, i.e. I do not dare to say the abbreviation or exact name, but I know what it is next to the Canadian embassy. The only reason the Ministry of Education was part of the program is because the focus was on bullying at school. This whole thing has nothing to do with private matters, but it has to do with bullying at school in general. So that was the educational aspect of this program. I also learned of this when vigilant citizens considered it, as you say, homopropaganda. But that's not what the Department of Education does, it's not part of the curriculum.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U58	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U59	Thank you. School bullying was only the cover of this homopropaganda. However, I ask why the Ministry of Education does not support and does not organise such training and programmes that support traditional family values.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U60	Thank you. There's no cover to talk about in our case. If you participated in this training, you will know more about it, but our functions really do not include such propaganda. There are many values in the curriculum itself, and I will now see if I can relate any to family matters. We must not, of course, discriminate against people's private choices in one way or another, but I have to browse the curriculum a little bit before I can respond directly. It would be awfully nice if you could also give me a clue, which I should look up exactly, if you want answers of substance. I guess you realize that not all documents are in people's minds, and you can't just quote on the move.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U61	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U62	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I can give you a hint that some other department will ask you to clarify what you're talking about the day before the briefing. But I do have this question: if the Ministry offered technical assistance for this programme, would you personally support you, as you know, in good company with me and your former colleague, the Minister of Education Lukas, i.e. on the list of haters in Europe and support this programme? If not, would you support, for example, a program for the Protection of the Family and Tradition Foundation, which would also deal with the subject of bullying at school?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U63	Thank you. Our role, of course, is to prevent school bullying with different programmes; there is no doubt about that. And what exactly needs to be cooperated with depends on an assessment of the situation. Clearly, 'private bullying' is a fact, but I cannot assess their scope. But as far as the current question is concerned, you have put it on the subject of 'Education in Schools'. I have a long list of things that are being made for value education, but I wouldn't have expected you to be interested only in the sub-deck. Other times, please specify! I wouldn't dare ask you so straight ahead, the ministry is delicate in that sense. Are you interested in decking or value building more generally? Excuse me, next time I'll prepare.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U64	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U65	Honourable ministers! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Since you have been very good at asking and ministers are even better at answering, we have more than ten minutes. So let me know if you want to ask. It is one minute to ask a question, and start by telling which minister you are asking a question, and then the minister will have to answer you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U66	Hi! Mr President, I would like to ask the Prime Minister. Is it true that the cost of sending Juhan Parts to Luxembourg is to find a job for three men? One is Karel Rüütel, the other is Mart Meri and the third is former Minister Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U67	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the President of the Riigikogu because I have never had the opportunity to ask for anything in the last 20 months and one or two weeks, when I have had the honour of serving as Prime Minister, and also before that more than a year in the Social Affairs Minister's office. I think this is a very good example of the fact that there is a very well-functioning parliamentary democracy in Estonia, where even without any preparation, questions can indeed be asked on all topics from both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Education and Research. And I really thank you for this opportunity! As far as the candidate for the Court of Auditors is concerned, I do not know the conditions that you mentioned. When I was asked if Juhan Parts' candidacy was appropriate, I made it clear that I thought Juhan Parts' candidacy was appropriate. The mere fact that it is the former Prime Minister adds international weight. There is no question about that. Nor is there any doubt about the person's professional preparation, I think. At the same time, on issues where the coalition must decide jointly, we must reach a common position with all the parties involved, and we do not yet have a consensus on this issue. When we reach consensus, we will certainly inform the Estonian public and, of course, Parliament will also know about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U68	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U69	Thank you. My question is for the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister! The government demands that the University of Tartu Hospital brings together more than 80 people. I am aware of the projects ahead of the clinic in the coming years. They really demand a lot of people who take, say, money where it is needed so that our clinic in Tartu can live on. My question has to do with this. I mean, maybe the team of the Tartu Clinic, the council, the board of directors could do better on the basis of the analysis of this concentration, not so that they get orders from the top and have to do as the Ministry thinks.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U70	Thank you. I think it is important to know that the government has agreed in its programme that the number of civil servants must be in proportion to the private sector, as the number of people of working age is falling in Estonia and therefore the number of employees in the private sector is falling. The state should not become a proportionate burden on the private sector than it has been so far. We've chosen a differential approach. We have taken into account in the government that some administrative areas have already implemented structural reforms and, for those who have done more, the percentage of savings is significantly lower. There has been much further decision by specific ministers, as there is certainly scope for differentiation within the administration. As regards the health sector and the specific institution, I have talked about this with Mr Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. The last time we talked about this was today. Having played the same role myself, I dare to support him. I say that I do not think it is possible to take this attitude that, in an organisation with three and a half thousand people, it is not at all possible to do things more effectively. I think the number of doctors in the clinic could rather increase in the near future and the number of nurses could also increase there. But I fully agree with the Health and Labour Minister's assessment that a particular hospital should still look for ways to make work procedures effective and see if support services are organised in the best possible way. And according to this, it is possible to make decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U71	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U72	A question for the Prime Minister. Prime Minister! I take this opportunity to clarify my question about tax havens. In Barbados, corporate income tax is 3%, in Estonia 0%. Why does Barbados register more companies than it can fit on the surface, but no one comes to Estonia? And I didn't want to hear in answer that we need investments, we have a great business environment, we have innovative staff and whatever. I wanted to know from a very simple, sincere and pure curiosity why large corporations around the world do not run into Estonia to register if we have zero corporate income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U73	Thank you. If you take it objectively, you will not find a country that has more direct foreign investment per person or given the size of the country than Estonia, either among our fate mates or in our region in general. So there's nothing to be ashamed of. The Estonian tax system has clearly encouraged foreign investments. I also dare say that we are very likely, if not the most attractive investment environment in the European Union, to be quite one of the most attractive. But there are also restrictions on our market, and we must, of course, constantly deal with these restrictions. In the European Union, it is not the custom of one country or another to become a tax haven in the context of the 'offshore' you emphasized. This is not allowed by European Union law, it is not considered to be a good tone, it immediately gives rise to all kinds of procedures, etc., etc. So the European Union does not have the opportunities that some Caribbean islands or 'tax havens' have in the classical sense. And I'm not quite sure if it's necessary, because with these tax havens, there's often a lot of money going through virtually there, but the well-being of the locals isn't necessarily 100% dependent on it. I prefer the Estonian economic model with a balanced service sector, industrial sector and agricultural sector, the end result of which is that we have production to export. For this product, we get a price high enough to pay a salary high enough in Estonia to make it possible for people to cope well with their lives. This is the economic model that I believe could work in Estonia. And it works, I think, better than discussing whether Estonia could be made into a tax haven.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U74	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U75	Thank you, Mr President. The question is for the Minister of Education and Science, Jürgen Ligi. Minister, how far have you been able to discuss this concentration, which must inevitably also be carried out in the Ministry of Education and Research and in its departments? Could there be problems in your offices or in the ministry itself, as we heard here at the university clinic?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U76	Thank you. With regard to solidarity with Evgeny Ossinovski, I will certainly take these cuts to fill, and I also support his plans. But our own redundancies have already been reported to the administration. True, I have already stressed in the government that our redundancy mechanism will mostly be different from the so-called simple ministry. This means that we will not send out many redundancy notices and have conversations in this area, but will ultimately achieve greater staff savings in our administration through structural reforms. There has also been a lot of talk about the fact that we achieve more by means of indirect techniques, there is scope for saving more labour than only at the expense of officials. Not all institutions are directly responsible to us, but all institutions are participating directly or indirectly in this programme. I have no doubt that this programme is fundamentally reasonable. We just have fewer and fewer people, and we can't take all these few people on public pay, and somebody has to do a job in the private sector. And this is probably the most acute problem in the private sector at the moment that they do not have people. In some cases, they all seem to be on government payroll. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U77	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U78	Thank you. The question is for Prime Minister Clothes. In May 2014, when you were Minister of Social Affairs, the Act amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act was adopted, which made it possible for members of the company's management board to register as unemployed. Since then, all important organisations have criticised this since EVEA, the Confederation of Employers, etc. This measure, which you have taken to prevent abuse, is called a grenade to kill a mosquito. Today it is known that this mistake must be corrected. The Free Party also tabled an amendment which was not supported. Do you think it's been damaged and needs fixing?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U79	Thank you. For the sake of accuracy, it should be said that by May 2014, I had been Prime Minister for a few months, but I assume that this does not matter in this matter. The background to this amendment to the law was indeed due to the fact that, according to the Board of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, there was a mass fraud in the management of companies and, at the same time, the withdrawal of unemployment benefits as well as health insurance for the unemployed. The desire of the Unemployment Insurance Fund was to put a stop to these frauds, because if we have a lot of fraud, we have less money to actually help those people who want to find a job. Will we be able to find an even better way to prevent fraud and ensure justice, isn't it time? But I'd rather think it wasn't a mistake. At the time, too, this was a very detailed solution in society, and no one was able to propose a better solution so that the wolves would eat and the sheep would be healthy, on the one hand, without fraud and, on the other, no one would feel hurt for nothing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U80	Thank you to the members of the government. Thank you to the members of the Riigikogu for a quick and operational Question Time! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U81	Honourable Riigikogu! We'll start the Wednesday session on the 10th working week. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to submit drafts or questions. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U82	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of seven members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I would like to report to the Minister of Public Administration, Arto Aasa, on the concentration of inquiries in health care. As you know, in September of this year, the heads of staff of state agencies received a guideline from the Ministry of Finance that by 2019 some 0.7% of staff should be made redundant. There are a total of 3500 people, 700-750 people a year. The letter was accompanied by a table of who and how many people must be laid off. The University of Tartu Hospital announced the plan of the Minister of Public Administration when they heard that they had to concentrate 85 of the 590 jobs. The North Estonian Regional Hospital has to lay off 80 employees. The Council of the University of Tartu Hospital stated that such a redundancy requirement is disproportionately high and undermines the quality of health care services. Tanel Ross, Chairman of the Management Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, took the same view, who said that money is already used effectively in Estonian health care. It was further pointed out that both hospitals and the Health Insurance Fund are of the opinion that the increase in the proportion of the elderly population means greater demand for healthcare. In addition, account should be taken of the fact that the exodus of medical personnel from Estonia has not stopped. We are very concerned about this kind of action by the country, and that is why we are asking the Minister six questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U83	Thank you. I have accepted an inquiry. We will forward it on the basis of the provisions of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 89 members of the Riigikogu are present at the plenary session, 12 are not available.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U84	We will continue where the work of this House was interrupted yesterday. The draft 142, the first reading of the draft law amending the Private School Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, continues. Yesterday, negotiations were still ongoing. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U85	Honourable representatives of the people! It is very difficult for me to start my speech today after yesterday's meaningful, inflammatory and thoughtful speeches. That is why I will start with the words of Jaan Tõnisson, who, standing before the Riigikogu in 1921, said that the supreme thought of the Estonian state and the greatest task is to stand up for the needs of its people. Actually, that's the way it is today. The government of the state and the Riigikogu must not only be guided by the vital decisions needed on this day, but they must think about how Estonian statehood and the Estonian people and other nations living here can continue and progress for decades to come. This means not only short-term decisions, but difficult choices that require higher, farther and broader viewing. One of the areas that requires such decisions is certainly education. When we talk about education today and praise that we have very good teachers, that our children's learning outcomes are very good, that they achieve great places in the Olympics, that we have managed to organize our schools, that is the result of decisions that were made many years earlier. Even now, our education system needs wise, thoughtful, and forward-looking decisions. We know that conditions are different today than 25 years ago, we have early childhood education, primary education, secondary education, vocational education, higher education, we have different schools and kindergartens, and certainly private schools belong to the educational landscape. We have private schools and we cannot evaluate our education system without valuing and valuing private schools. In a private school, children of perfectly ordinary people study. Where is the education minister's conviction that private schools are only private fun for rich parents, I cannot comment on that. In Peedul, Rosmal and many other smaller places, the parents themselves have worked hard for the school; they have contributed their money and time. After all, they worry most about children getting a good education. We are talking today about the need to raise teachers' salaries. No one denies it, but by raising teachers' salaries, we must not destroy the entire education system. Private schools are part of this system today. This is the largest part of the voluntary social contribution that we, as a country, expect so much from our people. Now we say you did and you are, but it's still not like the real community. Therefore, before deciding, we should look at the education system as a whole. For example, let us look at the school network program that was adopted in March. There's no word for private schools. We should ask ourselves whether in some areas a private school could replace municipal school. We should ask ourselves, or at least calculate, that if a private school does not currently receive operating grants of exactly the same size as a municipal school, then perhaps this support could be 75% or 80%. I'll have three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U86	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U87	We should look at private schools as an opportunity that diversifys our education system, but also gives teachers slightly different opportunities. We have stuck to solving a very topical problem today when assessing private schools. Neither the Riigikogu nor the government should have this right. Because at the heart of all education, no matter what type of school we're talking about, there are kids. If, on the one hand, we are thinking about how to implement the work capacity reform and we are talking about children falling out of school, then we cannot turn our backs on those schools, which are also working for children and where parents have contributed so much from their will, energy, money and free time, and which are perhaps the strongest community cell in our society that wants to grow. I agree that the state does not have to cover all the operating costs, but we should think about where we still want to develop as a country. The fact that at the moment private schools have been able to develop without being associated with local governments is no good. This error needs to be corrected because private school is primarily a community school and must work with the municipality. There are many unanswered questions. We have no reason, nor do we have the right, to rush the educational carriage into another ditch now so that we can then pull it out of the ditch again. The education system does not suffer very fast and superficial decisions. On the basis of all this, the Estonian Free Party Group proposes to reject the draft law 142 at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U88	Jaak Madison on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U89	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I will immediately start with the main problems arising from the answers of the Minister of Education yesterday. First of all, the argument remained that the draft law was needed to bring the law back into line with the Constitution and to eliminate the constitutional intrusiveness. Let me remind you that in 2011, when this law came into force, no politician in the Reform Party said that it would violate the Constitution. If the minister of the coalition led by the same party tries to correct the mistake that he has made himself, I think it is hypocritical. But I'm going to be more specific. This morning I had the honour of having a conversation with Kalev Roosivälja, one of the leaders of the Civic Movement in Public Education, with whom we talked about the studies. Yesterday, I asked Mr. Ligi whether studies have been carried out on how many children and parents it will affect if the bill goes through, whether tuition fees will rise in many schools, and therefore many children will not be able to continue their studies in private schools. The answer was that such a study had not been carried out and it was impossible to do so. Unfortunately, what came out of this, I do not now know who is lying or who is speaking right, has been repeatedly approached by the Ministry of Education and Research with a proposal to carry out research on it, to ask the local authorities who are able to compensate for the expenses of private schools and who are not. On this basis, red areas would be visible where schools will no longer receive support from local authorities after the law has been implemented. Then you can go directly to schools and do research among parents, asking who is able to pay 50% or 70% higher tuition fees. It hasn't been done. At first, the representatives of the civil movement were nicely spoken, but later even e - mails were not answered. So I'd like to find out who's right. Given the Minister's latest answers, I tend to believe in Mr. Roosivälja. Speaking of the breach of the Constitution, I also believe that the answer given by Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise to Heiki Haljasor and Philippe Jourdan on 3 November: 'The Constitution does not give rise to the obligation of the state and/or local authorities to grant operating grants to private general education schools. [---] The current decision to support private general education schools is part of (education) policy choices, but does not result from the Constitution. " On 3 November 2015, Aigi Kivioja, Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice, confirmed that the payment of operating grants to private schools is not the responsibility of the state or local government, it can and may not be done. Kivioja said that a number of educational policy choices go beyond what is required by the Constitution, but do not affect the constitutionality of other voluntary choices. There was a breach of the Constitution when the state imposed an obligation on local authorities but did not provide additional financial resources. There was a big scream and noise that went out to the Supreme Court. The state demanded justice, claiming that they were right. When the Supreme Court suffered a loss, there was suddenly a breach of the Constitution. Very hypocritical. That's another thing. It has been stressed that larger local authorities have promised that, despite the behaviour of the state, they will continue to support private schools. Similarly, if the movement from Public Education made inquiries to the municipalities of Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu and Keila to confirm whether they will continue to support or not, it became clear that such a position has not been formed anywhere. All of this is only on the gossip level that will continue and be supported. Here you could quote the minister who said on the Forum: 'The private schools are very cute. " They are cute, and that is why they should be further supported, but the state will not do so. It is a direct lie that local authorities will continue to support. There is also a political aspect here. Tallinn can now allow them to continue to support... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U90	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U91	...but in less than two years there will be new local elections. Private schools are exposed to the risk that maybe they will continue to receive support, but maybe they won't, depending on who comes to power or who puts the coalition together. This is the country's extremely risky behaviour. He pulls the carpet from private schools, where more than 5700 students are currently studying, next year the number will be even higher. So, four years earlier, a guideline was given, a citizens' initiative was supported, a bottom-up initiative, but after a few million euros came into question, which is cumbersome compared to the money used to support the parties each year, the carpet was pulled out again because 'we don't have any money and put it all in one municipal school'. Finally, this is an ideological issue. With constant pressure that let everyone learn with the same tomb, the same ruler, we force all children into municipal schools and put into difficulty private schools that play a very important role in Estonian education policy. Children are the future of Estonia; they are the next generation to shape this country and people. To talk about a few million euros, which should be in support of teachers, is once again very ridiculous. The Minister himself has confirmed that the coalition agreement is clearly over-exploited, with overly ambitious ambitions that cannot be implemented, at least in the first year, the strategy fails to meet the target of a teacher's salary of 120% of the average wage by 2019. Therefore, the mistakes in the coalition agreement should be corrected first and then go to private schools instead of immediately poking the weakest. I've just been reviewing the figures for the public education organization. They're impressive. Currently there are 46 private schools operating in Estonia and this organisation has joined 193 of the 44 schools, which basically represents almost all private schools operating in Estonia. The Ministry can't just ignore them. Finally, I'm talking about cost-effectiveness. I don't understand it, and I don't even know how much the Minister understands. If children who can no longer continue their studies in private schools, because some left-wing ideology has simply been introduced to make private schools more difficult, go to municipal schools owned by local authorities, then the burden will increase in the same way. There are no statistics on the extent to which the classes are now filled and the capacity of municipal schools to accept new students. I'd still like to run the statistics first and come out with numbers instead of throwing lies. Everything that has been said so far has been mostly wrong. On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party Group, I am handing over the motion to reject the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U92	The Minister of Education and Science has expressed his wish to speak in the negotiations. Under § 71 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, I grant him permission to do so. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I will always be happy to spend time with you, if the discussion is meaningful, you can explain, you can argue, you can answer questions. Today, I'll be forced to spend eight more minutes with you if the manager allows me.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U94	Please give me three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U95	The reason is not very unusual either. Indeed, a meaningful discussion has no impact on the final speeches and the decisions of the political groups. None! It's kind of startling at times. I'm gonna take care of some picks. First of all, Jaak Madison must have said in his most powerful sense that correcting mistakes is hypocritical. It was black on white. So let's talk about correcting mistakes. First of all, how did this error occur in 2010? However, it would be right to mention in the Commission's report that, if such a matter was at issue in the committee, even what was the answer to the question, it should not only be mentioned that the issue was raised. In 2010 there was indeed an error declared by the Supreme Court to be unconstitutional. Who started it? Yeah, my party's probably the most guilty of that. This, of course, does not mean that this mistake cannot be corrected. But it's not the Ministry I'm running right now that's responsible for this mistake. It was imposed by the Riigikogu; technical assistance was requested from the Ministry. I ask you to be correct and not to repeat this mistake as if the Ministry of Education had initiated this change. This was a proposal received from the Riigikogu, which was technically formalised by an official of the Ministry of Education and Research. But neither the Ministry nor the Minister supported it. The Minister here compromised that the law would be passed at all, which is regrettable. In 2014, at least two waitresses suggested that the Ministry of the Supreme Court defended the positions that were enshrined in the Act. I'm sorry, but that's what the Ministry has to do in case the state is sued. The existing law must be protected. This does not change the personal convictions of ministers or ministry officials. Jevgeni Ossinovski was against the amendment that was made, and he is in favour of the amendment that I am proposing now. Was that news a shock to private schools? No, it wasn't. Please do not make such claims! As early as 2014, 2015 was known to be a transitional period and then the system would change and there would be no continuation of anti-constitutional funding. Now this transition period has been extended by another year with our agreement and there is no reason to speak of haste any more. Please don't talk about rushing! The rush cannot last for years if the situation is fundamentally constitutional. Private schools survive this situation. They will probably survive it even better if municipal schools survive the inevitable closure and concentration of schools. As a percentage, private schools are likely to cope better with the current changes, and public guarantees are not granted to municipal schools either. I would like to ask you not to submit a proposal for the abolition of tuition fees as a matter of thought! This proposal has not been supported by private schools. Such a joke may be made at a committee meeting, but it does not correspond in any way to the budgetary opportunities of private schools and has never been the subject of negotiations. Anyone who wants to cause confusion can make such proposals, but this issue is unworkable. The ability to start paying for all this, the country doesn't. Is the financing of private schools linked to teachers' salaries? It was still claimed that there was no link. It's most directly related. This has taken 3.5% of the money we wanted to spend on teachers' salaries for two years in a row. There is no doubt that budgetary choices are a fact. Now for Krista Aru's report. Big disappointment. The beginning of a very beautiful presentation and then the claim that I said that only rich children go to private schools to satisfy their parents' private pleasures. I've never said anything like that, and certainly not from this remote. Please don't come here to say such things! That's another thing. Krista Aru called this problem topical. I say that this is a fundamental educational problem, it is a very serious problem with serious consequences if we have decided to give public priority to free education, as is the current situation. This problem inevitably creates educational stratification and is a much more serious social issue than child benefits. Please take this seriously! Looking at all areas of the public sector in Estonia, the fact that education is now well accessible to everyone at a high quality level can be our greatest triumph. There are some such aspects in the business environment, in the online sector, but these aspects of education have certainly raised us to the fifth highest in the OECD ranking. The OECD is the world's top league. We are told that we have the smallest number of those who fail, the most uniform level of education, and the average level of education is very high. Public preferential funding for private schools is a very difficult issue. Don't ridicule it! Please don't joke about this bill! Has there been any research? I have not said that we refuse to study, but that research cannot be an exact science. This survey in the form of a survey meant that municipalities were only asked whether they would continue to support private schools. This study was in this form and the answers were positive that yes, would be continued. I have done a'study' among members of my party and have received the answer in the larger cities that yes, it is in favour of supporting children in private schools. For my part, I can say that the Ministry of Education is even more supportive of private schooling than it has been so far, it is public funding, but it is the same as municipal school funding. I ask the Riigikogu once again to take this draft very seriously, because we are also talking about the lack of constitutionality of the existing situation. In addition, there are threatening amendments. Firstly, it is not possible to impose restrictions on the establishment of private schools, such as those proposed here, to give priority to existing private schools, as has been said by the Chancellor of Justice. The current situation, too, where municipal schools are becoming increasingly difficult to provide high-quality free education because they do not control the financing of private schools at all, but although private schools are more publicly funded than municipal schools, the Chancellor of Justice considers that they are essentially unconstitutional. Please do not make such amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U96	Thank you, Minister. Honourable Riigikogu, the Committee on Culture has proposed to conclude the first reading of the draft 142. Nevertheless, the Centre Party Group, the Free Party Group and the Conservative People's Party Group have proposed to reject the draft 142 at first reading. We will vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party 142 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. Quiet, please! 38 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the rejection proposal, 56 against, no one abstained. The proposal for rejection was not supported. First reading of Bill 142 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 1 p.m. on 23 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U97	The first reading of the Act 139 on the election of a local government council initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the amendment of related laws begins. The initiators' waitress is Andre Sepp, Member of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U98	President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission held a first reading discussion on 23 November on the draft law amending the Local Government Council Election Act and related laws. The draft will bring down the right to vote in every local government council election law from 18 to 16 years of age. This is done on the basis of amendments to § 156 (2) of the Constitution, which entered into force on 13 August 2015. The draft is of the same content as the draft initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 25 May, which passed the first and second reading of the Riigikogu in plenary but did not receive the required majority at the third reading in plenary. As the laws must be brought into line with this provision of the Constitution, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided at its meeting on 10 November to reopen the draft in the same wording. Bill 139, the draft law amending the Local Government Council Election Act and related laws amends the Local Government Council Election Act, as well as the Population Register Act and the Code of Civil Procedure. The Local Government Council Election Act is amended in three points. Firstly, it provides that an Estonian citizen and a citizen of the European Union who has reached the age of 16 and who has his or her permanent residence, has the right to vote, the address details of which have been entered in the Estonian Population Information System, are located in the municipality or city concerned. Secondly, it provides that every Estonian citizen with a right to stand as a candidate and a citizen of the European Union who resides in the respective city or municipality on 1 August of the election year. Paragraph 301 "Notification obligation' is added to the Act, which provides that an official of a civil status institution or other government institution or municipality or city government, police officer, head of a medical institution or welfare institution, judge, public prosecutor, notary and bailiff who has data on a person aged 16 to 17 who has to be declared incapacitated in respect of the right to vote, is obliged to notify the municipality or city government and the court according to the usual place of stay of a person aged 16 to 17. The Population Register Act is amended in the same way as regards the right to vote of a person aged 16 to 17 or the declaration of incapacity for the purpose. This also applies to the Code of Civil Procedure, which adds points for persons aged 16 to 17 who, if possible or if necessary, need to be subject to a declaration of a right to vote or a declaration of incapacity within the meaning of that provision, which can only be effected by a court. The Commission took the following procedural decisions: firstly, we had a proposal to put the draft law on the plenary agenda by 8 December, secondly, we propose that the first reading be stopped, and thirdly, we propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 11 December at 16:00. Mr Andre Sepp, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was appointed rapporteur. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U99	Questions for the waitress. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U100	Good manager! Good waitress! When preparing this law, have there been any studies or surveys of how many of these young people are active and interested in taking part in the selection of local governments? I have a sad experience of my own here. Two school students visited here today and I asked these children how many of them knew about this bill and how many are interested in this possibility. I must admit, sadly, that none of them wanted to vote. We still have a lot of work to do after the law has been passed. Has there been any research or surveys?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U101	Thank you. When this amendment to the Constitution was dealt with, there were a lot of meetings with the parties, including youth organisations, both within the Commission and elsewhere. There were different speeches on this subject. The specific number of people aged 16 to 17 in the next local elections is not available to the Commission today, but according to the population register, it is possible to withdraw the number of young people. The speaker has met with young people and youth organisations who have a clear interest in participating in the functioning of local government and participating in politics precisely through participation in elections. After all, the change is so new, it only came into force this year. The next election will be a little less than two years from now, so we will probably be able to explain ourselves. But in my opinion, the young are prepared.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U102	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U103	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia's democracy is based on representative democracy, which requires voters to have expertise, competence, experience in life, political maturity, etc. If the coalition considers that minors have all the necessary characteristics, will you next remove all other age restrictions? I mean, buying alcohol, going to the casino, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U104	Thank you. This was not a debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but we hope that society will also be ready to mature. The role of all of us as actors in society in this Chamber of the Riigikogu is in fact good to stand up for it in different positions. However, the restrictions you have mentioned have not been under discussion at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U105	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Jüri Adams, please, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U106	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am saying the same thing that I have said on at least two or three previous occasions, because this bill is not the first time before us. It is on the second round because it did not receive 51 votes in the final vote, and now we are working on it again. I would like to draw your attention to the two main problems in this draft. The first is the legal problem. It is that the term 'unable to vote' is quite absurd. Inability to act is the concept of private law, which means that a person has the right to dispose of and use his property, it does not absolutely concern the right to vote. The right to vote either exists or does not exist. This word monster or a three-word combination began many years ago in the creation of an Estonian lawyer, and so it will continue to live its own independent life until one day we reach the point where we can lose it. The second and most substantial problem still lies in young people. It is clear that there are also a number of people in the age group between 16 and 18 who are not such as to be able to take part in elections from their mental development level. The problem is more about how large this amount is and how practical it is and how it can be resolved. We have been told that there are estimated several hundred people in Estonia, perhaps up to 400. I am not quite sure whether this is exactly the case, but this number does not affect the level of practicality of the problem, because people who are mentally underdeveloped or who are not fit to perform such civic duties, regardless of age group, generally do not tend to go to the ballot box themselves. So the problem with local elections may be that one or two people from this age group, if anyone, could come up with a wish that they want to choose, and then you have to say no to them. In such a case, it is practically unreasonable to take into account the mechanism currently proposed for 200 or 400 files to be examined at several hearings in order to formalise the exclusion of the right to vote. The way the laws are, the easier the way they come to some sort of solution, the better. When discussing the draft law on the implementation of the Cohabitation Act, it is also a question of whether these 50 pages are needed to achieve the desired result. In other organisational matters of state life, it is also the case that, when it is possible to choose between a number of practical solutions and some of them are considerably shorter, less time and less costs, this less costly and less time-consuming route should be preferred. This draft now continues with the former consistency so that it has chosen the most complex and expensive way to solve the problem, with the problem being rather 'non-practical', it is legal-theoretic and thus partly invented, artificial and constructed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U107	Please, Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U108	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, Maybe none of you know what a kabuki theater is. The kabukitheater is a form of theatre that doesn't have much content, but people jump up and down the theater stage and there's terrible noise. I think this bill is a kabukitheater. That is why we are proposing to vote it out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U109	Kalle Laanet on behalf of the Estonian Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just here to talk for the sake of the verbatim, because the last time we discussed the draft on this subject, I said the same thing. I understand, Mr Adams, the concern of a good colleague, that this will increase the burden on the courts if they have to review whose capacity to do so needs to be restricted. However, the Constitution states very clearly that no one, except the Court, has the right to restrict the constitutional rights of people and the right to vote is a constitutional right. So, unfortunately, we do not have any other legal options in the current legal area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U111	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, of course, is to conclude the first reading of the draft which they have initiated. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed to reject the draft 139 at first reading. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U112	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask for a one-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U113	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U114	I asked for a minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U115	One minute. We'll proceed at 2.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U116	Martin Helme, is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U117	No, I would have liked to take a break. I would have liked to take a two-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U118	Break's already taken. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to reject the proposal 139 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 29 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, with 56 votes against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. First reading of bill 139 is complete. By the deadline for tabling amendments, I will set 11 December at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U119	The first reading of the draft Act amending § 30 of the VAT Act initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs begins. The rapporteur is Mr Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, in person.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U120	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 23 November. a. The purpose of the draft measure is to ensure equal treatment of providers of passenger transport services for remuneration for VAT purposes. As a result of the amendment, companies operating under a taxi transport licence can also deduct input tax on a passenger car from undertakings operating under a Community licence. As a reminder, the initiator of this amendment or the author of the problem was the Chancellor of Justice, who wrote in his proposal that the situation regarding the calculation of input tax is unequal for certain group companies, which concerns the circa 100 companies. This proposal by the Chancellor of Justice was unanimously approved by the assembly on 12 November. On 3 December, the Government of the Republic decided to support the draft initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We discussed the draft in the Commission on 26 November and took the following decisions: we propose to conclude the first reading (the decision was taken by consensus) and set the deadline for submitting the amendments at 4 p.m. on 11 December (the decision was also consensual). No party or member of the Riigikogu has submitted any special objections or arguments against the proceedings. I ask you to support the completion of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U121	No questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. First reading of bill 148 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 4 p.m. on 11 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U122	The first reading of the Bill 111 on Supplementing the Alcohol Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group begins. The opening waitress is Andrei Novikov. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U123	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! With this draft, the initiator proposes to supplement the Alcohol Act by introducing a restriction, i.e. a list of the places where the alcohol is sold, prohibiting the sale of alcohol on the territory of filling stations. Estonia is still at the forefront of alcohol consumption in the world. Estonia is in a third position among OECD Member States. In 2013, the adult population consumed 87 litres of beer per person, 13 litres of wine, 11.2 litres of strong and 20.9 litres of other soft alcoholic beverages. That's 11.8 liters of absolute alcohol per person. One factor contributing to consumption is that alcohol is very easily available in Estonia. According to a survey published last year by the Institute of Conjuncture, 86% of people are able to obtain alcohol in the immediate vicinity of their place of residence. Only a few percent take more than half an hour to get to the nearest liquor store. There has also been an increase in the number of companies that registered alcohol sales as their business. According to several studies, easy access to alcohol significantly increases alcohol consumption and related problems. The more difficult it is to obtain alcohol, the more consumption decreases. The figures show that there are 195 strong alcohol sales per 100000 inhabitants in Estonia. In Finland, this figure is 6.5, in Norway 5.1, in Sweden 4.5. The high figure in Estonia is obviously the result of a wrong alcohol policy or the lack of such a policy. People understand the problem very well and are in favour of closing sales outlets. According to a study carried out by the Institute of Economic Research in 2013, half of the people considered that the number of alcohol outlets should be reduced and 73% of respondents considered that it would be reasonable to reduce the sales of alcohol at filling stations. So far, however, the country's alcohol policy has favoured the interests of alcohol producers and merchants rather than tightening up market rules at any cost. Practical steps have been taken in the capital and have produced good results. In July of this year, Tallinn imposed a ban on the sale of strong alcohol in shops and gas stations with a surface of less than 150 square meters. In view of Tallinn's positive experience, the Centre Party presented a proposal to the Riigikogu in October to prohibit the sale of alcohol at filling stations across Estonia from 1 July 2016. A similar proposal has now emerged from the Social Democrats, who want to enforce the same restriction according to the draft as of 1 January 2018. Why, though, wait as long as there is public talk about the need to solve the problem? Driving and alcohol don't mix. Thousands of people die each year in Estonia for reasons related directly or partially to alcohol. The harm caused by alcohol is worse for us than in other countries with a similar alcohol culture. Drunk driving accidents accounted for 13% of all road accidents last year. Alcohol and driving don't mix. To be aware of this, a clear message must be sent: the number of alcohol outlets must be reduced and the number of filling stations must start. The main function of the filling station is not the sale of alcohol on the basis of the target group of the filling station alone. The main objective of filling stations is the sale of fuel and car maintenance equipment. The retail supply of alcohol is clearly less important in the activities of filling stations and therefore this restriction affects the freedom of business of those who maintain these shops to a minimum. In the light of the logic of the law, it is in the public interest to regulate the sale of alcoholic beverages in order to reduce the harm to society caused by the consumption of alcoholic beverages as substances harmful to health. It also follows that undertakings engaged in economic activities, the retail sale of alcoholic beverages cannot be presumed to be free from restrictions on their activities and must take into account that the sale of alcoholic beverages may be subject to additional requirements and restrictions in relation to other retail or business sectors. The legitimate aim of the restrictions on alcohol law is most generally to protect consumers and society from the harmful consequences of consumption of alcoholic beverages, which includes both health protection and public order. The sale of alcoholic beverages at filling stations increases the risk of drinking in motor vehicles and of sitting in a drink-driving car. If the country wanted to seriously control alcohol consumption, action should be taken, not just theorised on possible restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U124	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U125	Thank you. First of all, the comment that a car is going to Selver and Prisma, just as it is going to Statoil. Somewhere in front of Statoil's door a can of beer under the cameras isn't a very logical thing to do, I haven't heard much about it either. The question is this. You gave an example of the number of alcohol outlets in Finland and Estonia, that alcohol sales are comparable in Estonia and Finland, yet the number of places of sale is diametrically different. What do you rely on when you claim that reducing the number of alcohol outlets will also help to reduce alcohol consumption?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U126	Thank you. I rely on normal logic: the fewer places, the less shopping opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U127	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U128	Dear waitress, I am pleased that the Centre Party has changed its alcohol policy over time. I remember there was a debate in this Chamber a few years ago when they wanted to ban it and now it is forbidden to sell strong beer in small booths. At the time, Edgar Savisaar, chairman of your party, felt that this was a restriction on small business. It was a pretty big move to ban the sale of strong beer in booths. It's a good development in your party. But you have certainly worked through the various stages of your party's alcohol policy throughout this period in preparation for such a serious presentation. Can you tell me when this breakpoint was, or can you describe how your party's alcohol policy has changed for a certain time, from the time of this very strong beer to now?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U129	I think that the alcohol policy of the Centre Party has not changed. From the outset, we have been in favour of measures that reduce alcohol consumption, improve people's quality of life, allow for a more full life and minimise the risks posed by the consumption of alcoholic beverages. In this sense, our policy has not changed, our policy is continuing and has always gone in one direction. However, I am pleased that you Social Democrats are about to change your policy. Let us recall, just about a year ago, that the Ministry of Justice, led by the Social Democratic Party, had introduced the authorisation of non-drinking, which actually raised the entire Estonian public to the hind legs, and after six months Parliament had the opportunity to lift this restriction. The absurdity of the situation may be best illustrated by the fact that Tallinn installed here in Toompea, under the windows of the legislator, and by the signs that allowed Kadriorg to drink, because every normal person realized that it was nonsense that the Social Democrats had established in their time, and it had to be abolished. Fortunately, it has now been abolished and the Social Democrats have changed their policies. When we look at the draft initiated by Jevgeni Ossinovski, it is generally based on the same logic that Tallinn has tried. This is a good change in the opinion of the Centre Party, which people, who have moved from the Centre Party maybe somewhere else, are now implementing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U130	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U131	Good manager! Good waitress! I come back to the issue of access to alcohol. In Tallinn there is an attempt to make such a system that alcohol can be sold in a large shopping centre, but can not be sold elsewhere. You gave me an example of driving. When we look at the gas station and the mall, we see that there are dozens of cars at the mall, even hundreds of times more cars than at the gas stations. I hope you're a driver and pliers. Then you've seen that gas stations aren't just fuel dispensers anymore, they're primarily cafes. As one of the services, this cafe offers the opportunity to refuel, and it also sells alcohol. You were asked earlier, but you failed to answer that if there are many fewer shops in Finland, but you drink as much as in Estonia, where there are many possibilities...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U132	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U133	Why do you want to make obstacles to someone like me who maybe buys a bottle of wine once a year or two at a gas station? I have to go nowhere to go because a few or three percent of people may have a higher appetite for alcohol.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U134	Thank you for this partly rhetorical question. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this logic is based on the country's overall alcohol policy as set out in the government's Green Paper. By the way, there were representatives of your party among the members of the cabinet. This logic is based on the same principles as the current government, which has initiated restrictions with similar content. I'd say the fewer liquor outlets there are, the less there's a chance to buy alcohol. This is the general economic logic applicable to alcohol, tobacco and all other harmful or beneficial products.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U135	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U136	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! It is clear that there are few outlets in Finland or Norway, but they are still drinking like animals, as well as in Estonia. Why, however, is there a ban on selling alcohol at filling stations and roadside outlets in many European countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U137	I think they have followed the same logic as the draft. The fewer places you can buy alcohol, the less chances a drunk person gets in the wheel because he has left the gas station with a bottle. The general logic is that countries are able to impose restrictions in order to protect public health, and many countries have embarked on this path. If we look at European policies, we are talking even about general restrictions on alcohol at European level. I think that's right. The draft follows the same logic.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U138	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U139	Thank you. Since I didn't get an answer to my previous question, I'm gonna ask you again. If there are five shops per 100000 inhabitants in Finland and there are, as you said, over 190 shops per 100000 inhabitants in Estonia, but the so-called rate of alcohol consumption is the same, how do you explain this logic that reducing the number of sales outlets linearly also reduces alcohol consumption? What do you rely on when you talk to us like that here and say that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U140	I don't know how linearly it decreases, maybe it decreases as a function of some kind. I don't know if you've ever studied economics, such as microeconomics. The basic truths of this discipline state that the fewer places where one product or another can be purchased are less accessible. If availability decreases, consumption will inevitably decrease.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U141	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U142	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I agree with you a hundred percent that alcohol and driving are not compatible. However, I cannot find a connection between drunk driving and alcohol sold at a gas station. Do you have at your disposal statistics showing how many percent of the turnover of gas stations is alcohol sold there? The second question is, do you have any statistics on how many drunk drivers had bought alcohol at a gas station?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U143	Thank you for your question. I can get some statistics. Indeed, when Tallinn imposed this restriction, a certain company, namely Statoil, challenged it in court. The case reached the Supreme Court. Decision No 3-4-1-60-14 states that the retail sale of alcoholic beverage is not the main economic activity of the complainant. It is explained in the recital to the judgment that the main activity of a gas station is the sale of petrol and that the sale of alcohol is clearly less important. For example, from the annual profit of this particular company, Statoil, sales of strong alcohol accounted for only 0.08%, which means that restricting the sale of strong alcohol in this case is not an intensive restriction of basic freedom.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U144	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U145	Thank you, President-in-Office. We know that there is a situation in many parts of the world where there are quite large shops at gas stations. I will bring the Kose-Rist and Saverna store, for example. How is the problem to be solved there? Is that the solution when sales are lost at the gas station, but you can still buy alcohol from the store 10 meters around the corner, as much as you want? Or is this opportunity lost in both places? How will this situation be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U146	Thank you. I would point out that it is important to take the first step. A message must be sent that alcohol and driving do not go together. It is possible to establish additional meters for the distance between the place of sale of alcohol and the place where the tank is to be carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U147	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U148	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Today's heavy alcohol advocates spoke of yesterday's awfully disgusting dangers of smoking and its killing and devastating effects on human health. What do you think is more harmful to society, a drunk person or a smoking person? Which is healthier, can you tell me what you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U149	I think it is damaging to society as a whole if people cannot control their vices. Many philosophers, such as Socrates, have also said that if man cannot control his vices, it is one of the main risks that leads to the decline of both man and ultimately society. I believe every vice is harmful. If a person cannot cope with the evils himself, then the legislator must be helped.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U150	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U151	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Estonia is known to be a very small country and also a very small population density, i.e. sparsely populated. Certainly small filling stations are the places where services are actually provided in many parts of Estonia. When you read your bill, businesses may want to rename filling stations as shops, and then we will be faced with the same question again. Currently, alcohol sales are limited and alcohol advertising is limited to some extent. How much influence have existing restrictions on alcohol consumption now had so that we can believe in the following restrictions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U152	I believe that any restriction in force, such as the restriction that alcohol cannot be bought up to a certain age, has been effective and effective. I believe that the restriction we are discussing today will also have an impact. When it comes to what measures one or the other company will take to avoid this restriction, I believe that the supervisory bodies that will monitor compliance with these restrictions will certainly not only follow the purely grammatical interpretation, but the meaning of the law and the legislator. If you, the honourable Riigikogu, have in mind today that alcohol consumption should be contained in Estonia, and reducing the number of filling stations will contribute to this, then support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U153	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U154	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I understand your thinking that alcohol sales should be restricted, especially in those places where driving and alcohol sales are in contact. But please explain the draft expression 'in a building on the territory of the tank'. It raises a lot of questions in me. The last questioner already said that we're calling the gas station a store because it's okay to sell fuel on the premises of the store. Secondly, for example, in the Selver store's territory, there may be a charge point for electric cars. Why don't you explain some of the reasons why you still see it exactly: territory, buildings and bans?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U155	The territory of the gas station is the specific place where the gas station is located. Certain restrictions apply in the territory of the gas station and they also allow the precise limits of that territory to be calculated, even if the property is of different functions or in any way greater. This can be limited and, as a result of this restriction, the measure would also be effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U156	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U157	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! In your answer to my previous question, you gave Statoil an example of where it turned out that the share of alcohol sales in the gas station's turnover was small. Consequently, alcohol sold at the gas station is not a problem. The problem would be if this percentage were very high. But you didn't answer my second question. I'll do it again. Do you have any statistics on how many percent of the drivers who were apprehended had just bought alcohol at a gas station?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U158	I think that such statistics do not exist either for me or for you or anyone else in this country, purely because they cannot be confirmed or refuted. If, for example, a person gets in the hands of the police while driving while driving in a drunken state, then usually the questions that are asked to the driver do not concern the specific place where he bought the alcohol, but rather want to find out if he is drunk or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U159	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U160	Good manager! Good waitress! If we, as members of the Riigikogu, are trying to adopt laws here, then we must consider that this affects a very large number of people. The adoption of this law will also have an impact on the situation of companies from which the State receives income tax and all other taxes, as well as on those who consume a number of services at filling stations. Have you conducted any survey or study of how many rural filling stations may be shut down after this law is passed? A week ago, a newspaper text said that gas stations could stop selling fuel and remain as cafes. Isn't there a situation where you have to go from country to big city to refuel?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U161	Honourable questioner, thank you for your question. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the purpose of the draft is not to regulate the freedom to conduct a business in favour of having a cafe, a clothing shop or a gas station or operating in another field of activity. It cannot be regulated under coercion in any democratic country. As a result of the purpose of one or another property or building, it is possible to engage in a business, or use it as a commercial space, or to use it differently. It is unfortunately not possible to regulate whether one thing or another is being sold there today and the third or fourth thing tomorrow without going beyond the borders of a normal democratic state.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U162	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U163	Thank you. The last most important restriction on the sale of alcohol was the ban on the sale of alcohol at night. Have you studied statistics or research to determine what the impact of this very important restriction was?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U164	Thank you, good questioner! I have first and foremost studied the history of imposing this restriction. I believe that when the Riigikogu imposed a limit on the sale of alcohol at night, it thoroughly analysed the factors that specifically concern the availability of alcohol and also the impact on public health. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Tallinn introduced this restriction in 2007. At the same time, the Riigikogu started a draft to this effect. In the summer of 2008, exactly the same bill, initiated by the coalition, came to the Riigikogu, but it took place a year later, after the Centre Party's draft had been successfully pushed into the trash bin by pressing the red button. We lost a year. At the time, the Riigikogu came to the conclusion that this restriction was necessary, but simply because the initiator was wrong, did not support the proposal mentioned by the Riigikogu and enforced the same change that was then from the government, with one year's delay. Similar examples can be found in other areas when a positive matter has been taken over, but in a year's time or later. For example, there is currently a draft alcohol law circulating within the government, which provides for the same restriction as our draft, but the deadline for the entry into force of this restriction is 2018. I ask what the objective we are pursuing is and whether we want to reach it in 2018 or in the summer of next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U165	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U166	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! The bill is very short, but the reaction of colleagues, I see, is very hot. Do you have any observations about how actively we, members of the Riigikogu, maybe this possibility to buy a drink from gas stations?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U167	To be honest, I have never had a desire to pursue members of the Riigikogu. I hope no one ever gets that wish. So I don't have such a complex of observations.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U168	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U169	Thank you. Good waitress! I rather think that, instead of any restrictions and prohibitions, more information and education should be done. After the Riigikogu's decision to ban the sale of alcohol after ten o'clock in the evening (I was not in favour of it), a shop in my home town called Sauna Shop became a Sauna Bar after ten o'clock in the evening, where the cap was turned off from the bottle and given you a drink for more or less the same price. And when you went down the stairs to the nightclub in Africa, you were free to buy alcohol like that. So actually, for those people who had alcohol problems, this wasn't the solution, and all this just got pathetic. If you say that the purpose of the bill is to point out that driving and alcohol do not mix, then I agree. But in that case, I will ask you when you will have a bill that points out that sport and alcohol do not come together, i.e. when there is a ban on selling alcohol in sports centres.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U170	Thank you, Honourable Asker. You have such good suggestions. I wouldn't want to take anyone's thoughts and carry them out in his place. If you come up with such a proposal, I believe the Riigikogu will discuss it. You can make such an amendment. I am asking you, however, not to finalise this first example as an amendment when you said that, unfortunately, you were not in favour of the introduction of sales restrictions since 10:00. I believe that if you were to go around town today and ask people who, for one reason or another, are buying alcohol, whether or not this restriction is necessary, you would get a single answer that this restriction is suitable for most people and that the situation is normal. I ask you not to come up with a draft decision that will change this situation again.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U171	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U172	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I want your opinion. Why do you think that some members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber are fiercely defending alcohol sales in their matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U173	To be honest, this is not even about protecting alcohol sales. I think this is a world-view discussion. If we look at the liberal world picture, then certainly, imposing all kinds of restrictions does not go along with it. On the other hand, there is a different view of the world on the basis of which restrictions can be imposed. I am simply pointing out that we are a member of the European Union. Article 36 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union makes it possible to impose restrictions on trade where they are necessary for the protection of human health and public morality or other standards. I believe that this direction reflects the overall European view of the world, which we are all dealing with here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U174	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U175	Thank you! Dear waitress, My question is motivated by your answer, which has shown that you have not actually studied alcohol policy in advance. In fact, you have completely confused matters by claiming that the Socialist Minister of Justice so-called 'lawed drinking in public places'. In fact, on the contrary, it was also a very clear issue in the change of government that the Socialist Minister for Justice initiated a draft amending the law and prohibiting drinking in public places. I see that your preparation is a little poor. But it is clear that the opposition will always put forward such very short and sturdy drafts, knowing that the government coalition also has drafts or proposals on this issue somewhere. If you really want to deal with this issue, why don't you take a normal course and cooperate with the coalition, knowing that a very clear draft will be prepared in the ministry? You could put your thoughts in there, and we could get a really decent thing. There's no need to fight like this in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U176	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I understand that you have been in the coalition between the opposition and other stages. Maybe you've already gotten confused about where, what and when it was. But it doesn't matter. Right now, you're here as a vigilante and maybe you're used to supporting the government's drafts, like a rubber stamp. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the legislator has the right to initiate drafts and should sometimes be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U177	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! This bill you have submitted is really very short. Do you have any further drafts ready? We'll start with the tanks, but are there any other places where you can ban alcohol sales? I don't understand that a little bit. It seems to me that those who want to find alcohol underground or off the ground, and those who do not need it, do not mind whether, how much and where it is sold. Perhaps it would be wise to deal with the fact that people have other activities besides drinking. But I will come back to the original question: do you think there are any other places where there should be a ban on the sale of alcohol, even though it may not be understood to me?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U179	Thank you, good questioner! I suggest you read, for example, the Green Paper on alcohol policy. There are a number of measures that are currently in the spirit of the government's draft. In general, we all do the right thing. Steps need to be taken and the sooner they are taken and the sooner their date of entry into force, the sooner they will be put into practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U180	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U181	Thank you! Good waitress! I was moved to ask for or express my opinion and to ask for your answer to Lauri Luige when you stressed that most of the situation was appropriate. It seems to me lately that most people are always appeald to. What I'm trying to say is that quitting liquor sales at 10:00 has actually, quite the contrary, increased the advertising of alcohol. I wouldn't even remember the liquor being sold at the store, but right before 10:00, I'm reminded to buy it quickly if you want. That's one thing. The other thing is that right now we have all the laws to prevent minors from getting their hands on alcohol. Everyone knows you can't drive when you're drinking. What makes you think that extra bans don't make this more appealing?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U182	You know, I don't even know what to do with the logic that banning alcohol sales from 10:00 a.m. is advertising. I don't doubt your logic, but I still think there's some kind of mistake. You could read the explanatory memorandum to the old draft which introduced this restriction. There has been a good analysis of the effects that this change or restriction will entail, and there certainly will not be such a logic. Once again, the Reform Party, do not come out with a bill that will reverse this situation!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U183	Mihkel Iron, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U184	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You very rightly linked this debate to world-view issues and linked the fight against prohibitions and restrictions to a liberal world view. You yourself belong to a political party which, at least in the European Parliament, belongs precisely to a group of representatives representing a liberal view of the world. If you don't mind, I'm wondering what your worldview is.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U185	Look, my worldview's in the middle. I'm not on the right or on the left. I am not in favour of extreme right-wing or extreme left-wing. But I think we can talk about my worldview separately. I believe that members of the Riigikogu have much more important things to discuss in this Chamber than the worldview of an individual.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U186	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Let's keep going. I ask for a presentation by the Chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Toomas Kivimäe! Toomas Kivimägi, the county governor with the longest stature in Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U187	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In this Chamber, a heated debate took place; in the Committee on Economic Affairs, it went much easier. But the reason why we made it easier was because I consider it important to acknowledge that there was no debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs on the substance of this draft. This is because the Committee on Economic Affairs, which discussed this draft at its meeting on 26 November, based on the view of the Government of the Republic that the Ministry of Social Affairs has initiated a draft law amending the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act, this draft has already been submitted to the Government of the Republic and also sent to the coordination circle, and the content of the draft submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party is 100% covered by this draft. Above all, because of the principle of rationality and integrity, the Committee on Economic Affairs did not, by a majority, support the Centre Party's draft. Moreover, it seems that this is also a competing draft. The Committee on Economic Affairs therefore took the following decisions on 26 November. Firstly, we had a proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda for the first reading by 8 December (this decision was consensual), secondly, we propose to reject the draft at first reading (four members of the Economic Commission, three against, no abstentions), and thirdly, we propose that when the first reading is closed, the deadline for submitting amendments should be set at 12 noon on 22 December (this decision was adopted by consensus). Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U188	Thank you. You have a question. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U189	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Could the reason for rejecting the bill be that you, as a passionate smoke fighter, were offended by the fact that this bill bans the sale of alcohol at petrol stations, but does not prohibit the sale of cigarettes, even though the driver who smokes in the wheel is very dangerous? Was that one of the reasons why the bill was rejected?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U190	Thank you! You see, you were inspired by how you could have made the bill even better. I think, once again, that the draft initiated by the Ministry of Social Affairs deals with this issue in a much more complex way. The initiator's representative here also pointed out a few minutes earlier that a complex approach is very important. However, I think it is important to stress that the fact that the content of this draft is covered by a draft initiated by the Ministry of Social Affairs does not mean that the Committee on Economic Affairs has expressed its position either in favour of or against this draft. In fact, I repeat, there was no debate on the substance of this draft in the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U191	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. Yes, please, Urve Tiidus! Pause for thought?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U192	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to take a five-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U193	Wait a minute, you got a little ahead of events, but it's okay. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft 111 at first reading. Before we go to this vote, there is a five-minute break. We'll proceed at 3:44.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U194	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft proposal of the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 55 members of the Riigikogu), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 26 votes to eight with eight abstentions. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U195	Let's go to the fifth item on today's agenda. The third reading of the Bill of Amendment to the Foreign Professional Qualifications Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 70 begins. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the commission is to put the draft to a final vote of 70. I am voting on the amendment of the Foreign Professional Qualifications Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws Bill 70. Please take a stand and vote. 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 5 against, with no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U196	Today's sixth item is the third reading of Bill 73 of the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and amending other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a desire to negotiate? The political groups have no wish. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 73. I am voting on the draft law on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws 73. Please take a stand and vote. 82 members of the Riigikogu voted against, 1 against and 3 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U197	The seventh item is the third reading of the draft Act 93 on the General Part of the Social Code initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the commission is to put the draft to a final vote on 93. I shall vote on the draft law on the general part of the Social Code initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 77 members of the Riigikogu voted against, with one abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U198	Today's eighth item is the third reading of the draft Social Welfare Act 98 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Marika Tuus-Laul Centre Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U199	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, the new Social Welfare Act has been expected for a very long time, even years. Stretched, but in the context of the reform of the capacity to work, the new law is absolutely inevitable, without which this reform cannot be imagined. Although the new law has been postponed for years, it has now become so urgent that, if you look well, you can see that there are still tragic threads in it. Although paragraphs were moved from one law to another, amendments were proposed to a large extent only after the deadline. The specialists of the Ministry of Social Affairs worked night and day, just like our committee. There were huge disputes with the Ministry just up to the last minute, and there were disputes between the Coalition and the so-called Commission in the next room. Of course, this law should have been ready before we started with the Employment Capacity Allowance Act at all, because it has been said endlessly that we need to set minimum standards for the social welfare services of local governments, or minimum requirements, and to provide the local governments with financial resources to do so, which, in the opinion of the coalition, is not the subject of this law. At the same time, there is no doubt that municipalities have different capacities and services are not available in the same way in all municipalities; the capacity of local governments is even very different. At the same time, the law says that a local government cannot leave a person in need without help, which is also self-evident and natural. A very in-depth study carried out by the patients' representative association also confirms that the level of availability of services is indeed very different and that there are not enough institutions and professionals providing services everywhere. Only one example: seven of the 13 services observed are not available to the target group in local governments. The service of a person with special psychological needs is the least accessible, but it must of course be provided. In almost a fifth of the municipalities that responded, no special care services were available. The studies of Praxis and Emor have also confirmed exactly the same. The National Audit Office has pointed out this problem in the past, building on the OECD report. One of the biggest problems is occupational and social rehabilitation. Many institutions providing this service have abandoned or are abandoning the provision of services. Prices, as we know, are already very low from old times and work does not pay off. As we have said, it is necessary to set cost-based new prices which would provide assurance that rehabilitation will continue to be provided. The problem is very, very serious, and this service is certainly scarce. The Association of Rehabilitation Agencies has abandoned negotiations with the Ministry, as their proposals on the implementation of new legislation are constantly ignored. We have made this draft considerably better on some points, for example, at the last minute we added the service of sign language interpreter to the list. This is very important, but no more money will be given to provide this expensive service. At the same time, it is a very necessary service. Using an interpreter, people with hearing disabilities explained to us that they could not even go to the municipality to talk about the need for an interpreter or anything, because there is no interpreter. Sign language translation is not enough. We think that their training should certainly be organised by the Ministry and should be increased. The municipal associations have not coordinated the draft as the financing of the services has not been agreed. Once again, we are in a situation where local governments are placed under responsibilities without giving more money. In view of this confusion and the absence of agreements with local governments, we proposed to postpone the entry into force of the law by six months. At second reading, it was decided in this Chamber, on a proposal from the Commission, that only part of the points would be postponed and only three months would come into force. We find that time is not enough. In the light of the above, we think it would be wise to discuss this issue once again with the municipalities and all the parties and not to adopt such a sensitive law so quickly at the moment. 20 seconds more time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U200	Extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U201	I am afraid that, as long as there is no agreement with the municipalities on the financing of services, these services will not be better accessible to those in need of help from the new year. As our proposals have not been taken into account, the Centre Party Group proposes not to adopt the draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U202	Thank you. Jüri Jaanson, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U203	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, in the final vote, there is a new Social Welfare Act, which will make the entire social assistance system clearer to people, and this should improve people's awareness of how help can be obtained. As regards services for which quality problems have so far occurred, the new Act sets minimum requirements. Through minimum requirements, provision is made for the provision of services as a conditional task for local authorities. The previous speaker stressed that some services, such as the support person's service for persons with mental disorders, as well as the sign language interpreter's service, were not available. I would like to make it clear that this draft law does not improve the availability of services that are still in place, but which, for other reasons, such as the lack of funding or services, cannot be made more accessible. The emphasis of the new Social Welfare Act is, above all, a clearer organisation of social assistance and a better quality of services. The right to self-determination of local authorities has also been clearly stated, which means that local authorities must provide people with the help that people need. Municipalities must identify and provide assistance. Help can vary from wall to wall. The emphasis is not on the person who is entitled to this aid, but on the purpose, i.e. the person must receive exactly what he really needs. This bill emphasises quality, not availability. In summing up, I believe that, in the context of the reform of the capacity to work, the adoption of this law is very important in the sense that, from 1 July next year, the reform of the capacity to work can be launched. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U204	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Aivar Kokk Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U205	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, As chairman of the committee, I would first of all like to thank all the Members of the Commission who, despite the late hours of the evening when we discussed this issue in the committee, took an active part in the debate. I don't think anyone can say in this hall today that we didn't listen to all the parties. We argued a lot and found a lot of compromises. Indeed, even literally at the 24th hour, compromises were written in this law, which were important and necessary for the law to be good. I dare say that this law could be called 'Helping all those in need, including those with special needs'. The law concerns a very large number of people, such as those in need of help who live alone, but is also very important in the context of the reform of people with disabilities and health impairments, i.e. the current capacity for work. One of the main problems identified by organisations representing disabled people is that some local authorities do not provide the services they are legally entitled to, or do not offer them at the highest quality. We are talking about services such as personal assistant services, support person services and social transport services. Unfortunately, the state's hands are short in solving this problem, as it is up to it to decide which service a particular city or municipality offers to a person in need. However, the state can set minimum standards for services at the level of the law, which this law does. Therefore, the assessment of the need for aid is within the competence of the local government and remains within its competence, while the law states that when a service is provided, it must meet certain minimum requirements. We specify the obligations already in force by law. According to the Local Government Organisation Act, it is already the task of the municipality to organise the provision of social assistance and social services to persons in need of assistance residing in its territory. Thus, it is already a statutory obligation of the municipality, which we specify at a minimum in this Act. The minimum requirements for services are laid down for home services, non-home general care services, personal assistant services, support person services, social transport services, asylum services, shelter services, debt counselling and housing provision services. The purpose of all services, the responsibilities of the local government in organising the service and the requirements of the service provider are specified. New services are debt counselling, shelter services and general care services, as they are not mentioned in the current Social Welfare Act. In essence, it is a local social service, the provision of which is a mandatory task for a local government unit within the meaning of the current KOKS. In other words, there is a legal basis for the provision of services that have not yet been regulated but already been provided by several municipalities. There is also a change in the creation of separate requirements for asylum services and shelter services, which have so far been considered in part as a single service. In this way, these two services should be better distinguished from each other in practice, meaning services better suited to the needs of the service target groups. It should be stressed that minimum requirements are part of a comprehensive solution called the "workability reform." Therefore, as far as possible, we are making arrangements for the so-called state in the course of the work capacity reform, but it is also important to organise and improve the organisation and quality of services provided to people at local level. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U206	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U207	Local services are an important basis for the successful implementation of the work capacity reform. Finally, I would like to thank all parties: the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the University of Tallinn and the University of Tartu, the Estonian Association of Social Work, the Estonian Confederation of Employers, the Estonian Confederation of Trade Unions, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Association of Hospitals, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, the Chancellor of Justice, the Estonian Association of Local Government, the Estonian Association of Cities, the Social Protection Board, the Estonian Health Board and the Child Protection Board, all of whom actively participated in the proceedings for this bill, so that this law could be better. Is everything all right here, time will tell. If we see that something else needs to be clarified and corrected, we will definitely come back to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U208	Thank you. Please, Helmen Kütt on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U209	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Today is the 55th time that we amend the Social Welfare Act adopted on 2 February 1995, which entered into force on 1 April 1995. And that's it. If life changes in 20 years, the law must also be changed. During the debate on the previous item, we voted on the draft law on the general part of the Social Code. It's very closely related to the Social Welfare Act. We are talking today about the fact that one step has been taken on the long road. However, there are municipalities that say that there is too much and that is not justified because there is no money. Very, very many municipalities already value, help and support their people. Very many municipalities do this work at a much higher level than minimum requirements require. But there are also those who have not been able to do all this, have not been able to provide the services on the list. They're scared of how they can do it in the future. They have not coordinated this draft. At the same time, people with special needs, but not just them, are actually expecting more. They turn to the local government and they really don't care who helps them, whether it's a state or a local government. They need help. Appreciation must be given because, as data from the Ministry of Social Affairs say, codification started in 2008, preparatory work started. After analysis it was dealt with by the Ministry of Justice, in 2011 became the leading role of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Indeed, officials have worked hard, several committees and Riigikogu formations have discussed this. Are we satisfied with all this? I met the social workers in Saaremaa. They are concerned that there will still be no resources for everything, and if the minimum requirements cannot be met, there may be some services that today are provided at a slightly lower level, but with which people are still satisfied, will not be provided in the future. Perhaps it is also important to say that after the adoption of the law, it will not happen that services will be received equally everywhere in Estonia. I'm sure that's not gonna happen. In a similar way, only the services provided by the unemployment fund, i.e. the state, are likely to be available. But this law is a step towards it. It is necessary to initiate a discussion on which welfare services should be financed by the State in order to ensure access to services even if the minimum requirements are met. The Social Democrats will vote in favour of this bill. We have made proposals for the provision of shelter services, the time of implementation of certain points of the law and the obligation to notify the need for assistance during the procedure of the draft. Those problems were solved. We support this bill. But I will certainly stress the message that is going out of this Riigikogu today, that after the entry into force of the law, it will not happen that Estonia, every forest village, every farm, every municipality, every city has exactly the same social services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U210	Thank you. The political groups have no further requests to speak. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 98. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Social Welfare Act 98 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 54 MPs voted in favour, 33 against, with no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U211	Let's keep going. The ninth item is the third reading of the draft consumer protection law initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the commission is to put the draft to a final vote on 37. I am voting on the draft consumer protection law initiated by the Government of the Republic 37. Please take a stand and vote. 74 members of the Riigikogu voted against, with 4 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U212	Today's tenth item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law amending the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law on State Fees initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 51. I vote on the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law amending the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law on State Fees, initiated by the Government of the Republic 51. Please take a stand and vote. 66 members of the Riigikogu with 5 votes against and 4 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U213	The eleventh item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Packaging Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 125. I am voting on the draft law amending the Packaging Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 125. Please take a stand and vote. 76 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, with 3 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U214	Let's keep going. Today's 12th item is an overview of the 2014 Civil Service Report. The rapporteur is Arto Aas, Minister of State Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U215	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to introduce you to the 2014 report on the Civil Service. The annual reports of the public service have been drawn up in the form of yearbooks since 1999, but this is only the second one, which will also be presented to the Riigikogu under the Public Service Act which entered into force in 2013. The report first gives an overview of the general government as a whole and then focuses on public services in public authorities, i.e. in particular constitutional institutions, government institutions, urban and rural municipalities, and urban and rural authorities. In addition, for the first time, the report provides an overview of the same indicators for the staff of the managing authorities. Among the thematic areas, the report deals with central coordination of public service developments, staff turnover, recruitment, wage management, age and gender distribution of staff, educational attainment and training opportunities. The general government employed 119153 people in 2014, of which 20510 were officials. The number of officials compared to 2013 decreased by a thousand people. Officials work for the authorities of the state and local authorities, including special servants, police officers, defence forces and prison officials, who had a total of 8836 people. The ministries employed a total of 2,704 people, of which there were 1834 officials. So I repeat, the general government had a total of 119000 state salaries, with 2700 of them, or 2%, working in ministries. For the sake of clarity, I would point out that the local authorities employed 62576 people and 740 social security funds. More than 12,000 people worked in general government foundations, accounting for 9% of the number of employees in the general government sector, and 9699 in legal persons governed by public law, i.e. slightly more than 7%. Looking at the age distribution of civil servants, it can be said that the workforce is relatively young, while the average age has increased in recent years according to the general demographic trends in Estonia. There were almost half of the staff under the age of 40, while there were almost a third of the staff over the age of 50. The proportion of local authorities aged over 50 was higher, accounting for almost half of their workforce. The high proportion of older people in the workforce means that local authorities may face the need to replace many retired officials and employees with new ones in the coming years. The national authorities had more or less equal numbers of men and women, while the gender distribution of the various groups of civil servants was more varied. The number of special servants was high among men, while the proportion of women was higher among so-called ordinary officials and employees working in support of work. The voluntary turnover of civil servants remained stable both in 2013 and 2014 and did not exceed the critical limit of 10% in the organisation with top specialists. This leads to the conclusion that the state is attractive as an employer to those in public service and, consequently, the institutional memory and expertise of the public service should not be at risk at the moment. People with higher-than-average education are employed in the public service. The proportion of people with higher education among all people employed in Estonia reached 41%, while the proportion of people in public service was significantly higher than that of 58%. Highly qualified workers also expect a higher wage for their contributions. In 2014, the government allocated 5.1% additional money from the budget for the growth of the payroll fund to all areas of government, and additional money was provided to cultural workers, teachers, social welfare workers, doctors, ambulance workers and National Archives employees, increasing their payroll fund by 6.6% in total. In addition, many institutions found ways of increasing the wages of their employees by internal restructuring. As a result, government labour costs increased by 10% in 2014 compared to last year, and wage growth was faster than Estonia's average wage growth. The average salary of civil servants in 2014 was 1338 euros and the average salary of local government officials was 1179 euros. Thus, the salaries of civil servants were about 150 euros higher than those of local authorities. However, it is very difficult to conclude from this comparison that there is a significant difference between the duties of officials in the country and local authorities and, consequently, the pressure on the labour market on these groups of occupations is also very different. At the end of 2014, the government approved a White Paper on the human resources policy of the state as an employer, which describes the aims and scope of the state's human resources policy and provides solutions to the problems. One of the objectives set out in the White Paper is that the state should start planning staff better and take this into account when making long-term development plans for institutions. This will contribute to the government's plans to reduce the number of government employees in proportion to the decrease in the working age population in Estonia as a whole. This implies the need to reduce the number of employees by an average of 700 per year between 2015 and 2019. However, such a reduction will only be possible if public authorities, under the leadership of their leaders, critically review their current tasks and the public services they provide, their number and mode of delivery, and undertake structural reforms to better organise their work. It is necessary to assess what services a country with limited resources offers to its citizens and what the private sector can and can provide. The administrative burden created by the State itself must be critically assessed and its growth avoided in future activities. By administrative burden, I mean what tasks public authorities place on each other and what reports they require from each other and how internal services are organised. Reducing the number of government employees and, at the same time, providing high-quality services is one of the biggest tasks of this government in the coming years. Attention must be paid to ensuring that those who continue to work in the public sector are able to pay competitive wages in the context of limited budgetary resources, while at the same time keeping in mind that the state does not become the driving force behind a long-term wage increase. Estonia's preparation for the Presidency of the Council of Europe in 2018 will also require increasing commitment, which will inevitably lead to the need to hire additional but temporary staff. The ever-changing security situation also requires additional resources. I'm done with that. Thank you for listening and I hope for a pleasant cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U216	Thank you, Minister. Before we go to the questions, I will briefly present the item on the agenda. Each member of the Riigikogu is able to ask the rapporteur one oral question. Representatives of the political groups will be able to participate in the negotiations and the Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the debate. But let's get to the questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U217	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is certainly worth the information in this document, but it is not much of the air from which we would probably like to hear the most, this meaningful direction for state reform. Yes, page 7 speaks of the need to reduce the number of employees in the government sector. It is, however, very superficially worded. In your presentation, you extended the subject a little bit, probably the wording seemed superficial to you too. But what structural reforms are planned: restructuring of what kind of functions, exclusion of duplication and smoother cooperation between ministries? Could you be more specific on this crucial issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U218	Thank you. As the title of the item betrays, this is the 2014 report, but it is already the end of 2015. We will certainly try to come before Parliament with reports in the future, then they will be more topical. After all, the main content of this report and the report describes the past. But as far as the future is concerned, we have already launched a number of important processes in reforming public governance, such as consolidating support services in public authorities, real estate reform and e-services. The next important milestone is May 2016. We're doing an analysis at the Ministry of Finance, a state audit. It will be prepared in cooperation with all ministries, with a clear methodology. In the spring of next year, we want to have an audit prepared with specific sectoral conclusions on what is poorly, together with concrete proposals on how to substantially reform government. It is not possible to do this work alone, of course, only in the Ministry of Finance, but it is crucial that all ministries and administrative departments contribute. This work has taken an active turn in many places, there are many areas or authorities that have already made public their initial thoughts. Here again, the Tax and Customs Board can be a good example. So work is on, we'll find out the results next spring.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U219	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U220	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! My question relates not so much to the previous report, but to the next one. There is no doubt that this has something to do with the subject. Since I am a national envoy elected from Tartu, it can be assumed that my question concerns the concentration at the University of Tartu Hospital, which has caused a great deal of misunderstanding and resentment. Indeed, there is a belief that hospitals are not essentially part of the government sector and that concentration in the health sector would not solve the problems that have been discussed all the time, although it emphasises that this is part of the planned redundancies in the government sector. Secondly, everyone thinks it's a really stupid idea. For a very simple reason, that is, because 35,000 square meters of surface area was built at the university clinic, new services are coming in, development plans are going to provide for an extension, if we really concentrate now, that means that we built an empty concrete box again, and one hand is working in one direction, and the other hand is exactly the opposite. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U221	Thank you. Hospitals and health institutions are undoubtedly part of the government sector; there is nothing to argue about. Their revenues are collected from taxpayers, they receive money through the state budget. Although they have quite a degree of autonomy and freedom, they are certainly part of the government sector. As I said in my report, we have 119000 state-paid employees, and only 2 700 ministerial officials. So if we want to talk about the significant impact and major reforms, we need to look much further than just dismissing ministerial officials or reorganising the work of ministries. This is why the analysis carried out in the spring and summer of administrative areas and areas became clear about the changes that have been made over the last five years and where reforms have been made, where the number of employees has decreased and where the number of employees has increased. According to this, cuts were made for sectors, to be exact. The population will decrease and the burden on the taxpayer will increase, but at least the proportions of the public and private sectors must not become significantly worse, as this is simply not sustainable. We can ignore these trends, but it wouldn't be wise. The government agreed on differentiated cut numbers with the clause that each minister within his administration will make the following decisions. That's how the deal came about. It was not easy, all ministers fought for their field, in all areas there are undoubtedly exceptions, certain nuances, but the agreement was born, the methodology was understandable to everyone, some got a smaller percentage, others a little larger. From there, the Ministry's leadership retained its own choice. These choices have also been made by the Ministry of Social Affairs itself. I have no information on the basis of which they made an internal division of how much a hospital or a sub-office has to cut. It seems to me that it has not been very well explained why it had to be done at all. It has really created an emotional reaction. But indeed, no one has been harmed, the approach is in all areas of this kind. I believe that every state institution, every authority, every organisation in Estonia that receives its income from the taxpayer, is obliged to think about how the work can be done better. Nobody says that hospitals are, I don't know, poorly run or that there's nothing going on, but no one can lift themselves out of this big picture either. Certainly, as Mr Ossinovski has said, the work can be done more effectively. These are very large facilities, with a total of 7,000 people in two hospitals. Surely savings can be found. Today we would expect an open attitude to be sought out, not excuses. But how and why exactly such choices were made by hospital, must be asked by the Ministry of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U222	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U223	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I would like to know the opinion of you, as the commander-in-chief of the army of 136 800 Estonian bureaucrats, about the flow of the frame. I read here that about every nine years the official will change. The critical limit for voluntary turnover is the same 10%. Defence forces and internal security average 8%, ministries 6%. To reach an average of 6%, it could be 3% in one ministry and 12% in the other. I want to know in which ministries and in which areas of internal security voluntary turnover exceeds 10%.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U224	Thank you. I don't really know how to tell you the inside distribution at the moment. We will certainly be able to clarify this later in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U225	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U226	Good waitress! There are two things themselves: one thing is government and the other is state service. It was precisely in 2014, even in 2013, that the State Service fell below the critical threshold. In order to get an ID card, to deal with the pension services, to communicate with the DMV for driving licences, to wait for the policeman to arrive, the queues are long beyond the limits of tolerance. People are good, they work very well, they're friendly and so on, but the police can't work with a quarter of what they need and just can't issue an ID card if there's only two people behind the counter. This trend started very sharply in 2013 and 2014. I wanted to ask you how many national service formations are growing, how many thousand people we can hire next year to make the country function normally.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U227	As I'm sure you've noticed, our plan is not to raise public earners. In a situation where the private sector has a shortage of working resources and a population is shrinking and ageing, there is little room to include in the public sector those who consume this added value generated by the private sector. When we started carrying out the 'five-year review' in the spring, the plans were, of course, such that some 650 people were wanted to be added in different areas. That's how it tends to be in the public sector. If it is not decided at political level that the formations will no longer expand, then in their natural state they tend to expand. They want to do more and get more people. The years after the crisis have proved this at times. In particular, institutions such as foundations that are a little more loosely connected to the central government have expanded. So the answer is that, within the administration, every minister has the right to restructure, to decide where there are fewer people, where there are more, what are the priorities, but the overall number must not increase. I'm sorry to hear you're having such a bad experience with your ID card. I have fantastic experience of getting an ID card. Fifteen minutes and I've got it. [[Interjection.]] There are things that, in my opinion, still work very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U228	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U229	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Both 2011 and 2015 have very clearly recommended better inter-ministerial cooperation in the OECD's reports on the governance of Estonia. This autumn, Secretary of State Heiki Loot called for the idea of how a joint judicial service of ministries could function. Have you already discussed this idea and what possible prospects for the creation of a joint service?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U230	Thank you. Indeed, in ministries we consolidate various services, we seek efficiency and we have found it. The common legal service is a topical issue when we are talking about a common building. This joint building, which should be completed within two years, means not only a joint concrete house for four ministries and seven ministers, but we want to use it as a flagship project to harmonise all services and find synergies. I do not have the answer to what things can be done together there, when these so-called silo towers are spoken of, or these walls are broken down between ministries, to create synergies and more flexibility, so that when the new government comes with new priorities, it would be easier to move people and departments where it is needed. For example, we have now carried out the transfer of two departments from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Finance, which went pretty hard. It wasn't easy, although in the big picture it was a small move, 60 people, but there was a wild amount of paperwork and bureaucracy. Ideally, all of this should become much simpler and more flexible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U231	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U232	Thank you, good deputy speaker. Good minister! The report even points out, in a rather bold letter, that there is no firm responsibility for the development of the public service as a whole. What, in your opinion, is the role of the government and the head of government at all, shouldn't he be moaning or rather interested? Even now, when you were answering here about mathematical concentration in both educational and health institutions, I do not think it was competent. We should still monitor first what the functions of the state are, and then reorganize the staff, not so that we lay off the staff and then see what we are going to do with this country. Igor Gräzin's observations are justified in my opinion, and the Police and Border Guard Board is under-built.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U233	Thank you. The development of the public service and the formulation of these principles and policies have largely moved to the Ministry of Finance. Significant progress has been made towards a comprehensive view. However, policies within the sector, which concern policy choices, are still shaped primarily in ministries. It cannot be run by the Ministry of Finance. Here, of course, the ministries of the sector remain responsible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U234	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U235	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! There is one contradiction in your austerity policy. Where has the idea come from that the head of the foundation or public institution is not based on the minimum composition necessary to enable the institution to function? The Ministry thinks that the driver is based on the wrong minimum composition if another 10% has to be taken from it. Who does a citizen have to trust now? Do people who are in the office or people who are on site and work in trenches?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U236	Thank you. This question, yes, how these figures have been reached, whether or not they were consulted before they were agreed, must be referred to the Ministry of Social Affairs. I can't answer that today. This decision, which internal choices are made, remained on their shoulders at the request of the ministers themselves. There is certainly a very strong competence in the institutions, but the heads of institutions also need to look at the big picture. I do not think that there is a body or a head of industry who does not want a larger budget and more people to meet the objectives, but these things must also fit the whole picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U237	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U238	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We learned from the report that in 2014 the number of employees in the central government increased by 1093 people. A letter sent in September this year to the heads of staff of public authorities said that 3 500 people should be made redundant, 700-750 people per year. There was also a detailed table of where and how many people should be gathered. It is criminal, however, that only a few weeks later, in October, the state authorities received a letter from the Ministry of Social Affairs, entitled 'The number of recruitments required for people with reduced working capacity', again accompanied a table stating that people with disabilities and a quota should be employed, 1000 people to be filled. Like Karis two weeks ago, I am concerned that we have started two opposing campaigns, the results of which may not be exactly what we hoped or expected. No necessary tests have been carried out. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U239	Thank you. He who has wanted to deepen and thinks logically understands that these goals are not contradictory. If we cut the number of government employees by 1.5 to 2%, this does not mean that there should not be people with special needs among those who remain in employment. These objectives are in no way conflicting with each other; one does not rule out the other. I don't understand why it's so difficult to understand. The fact that more people with special needs are employed in the public sector is not a one-off action does not have to come up with any pseudo-jobs for travel attendants, temporary jobs to get a tick note. This is a general political trend, and this can also be done completely calmly with reduced formations.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U240	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U241	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum states exactly how many people work in local governments and how many people work in public authorities. This ratio is 53:47. I believe that all local authorities are waiting for what will happen in 2017. You write so beautifully and talk about your plans. What do you mean, will this relationship change at the end of 2017 or at the beginning of 2018 or will it remain at the same level?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U242	Thank you. Yes, if the administrative reform succeeds, then it is likely that the formations will also change. How much they decrease in the first stage, it is early to say today, but we have experience that more content services will be offered than support services. Lääne-Saaremaa is an example of this, with two social workers and one child protection specialist in place of three accountants. The internal structure of the workforce is likely to change. But I'm sure there are places where you can save. Today it's a picture of letters. There are small municipalities where there is a screaming need for specialists, but they simply cannot be found. There are few people in Estonia and they cannot be offered enough work or competitive wages in very small municipalities. There are more opportunities in Tallinn and in the more prosperous Harjumaa municipalities. The possibility of savings may also arise as a result of accession, but such short-term rapid savings are not a key priority for administrative reform. I do believe, however, that there is a certain effect here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U243	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Maris Lauri Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U244	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A year ago, I stood right here on the remote and spoke on this very subject. At the time, it was a first review; this time it is a second review. Of course, changes cannot happen so quickly in an area where processes are inevitably slow. I think we will see real results in 2020 when we start comparing the situation with what was in 2013 or 2014. It is inevitable that the number of employees in the general government as a whole must decrease because, as we all know, our population is shrinking and ageing. We simply cannot afford a public sector that is bigger than our economy allows. I am very pleased that this has been dealt with intensively. As expected, there is much opposition to it, and there are doubts. It is natural in one way, because many people have the inherent hesitation and fear of change, but we need to understand that these changes are inevitable and need to be adapted. All changes and reductions must be done prudently and care must be taken not to penalise those who are better, twice as much as possible, so that the quality of services does not suffer. It must also not be limited to looking only at those institutions which are close to the central government and which are very easy to change by 'order'. It is very important to look further. It is also important here that these institutions, organisations and companies that are far away from the central government think much more about what they have to do. It's inevitable. I'm thinking of a lot of foundations, NGOs and local governments here. This is why a major administrative reform and a more general reform of the governance regime are important. However, we cannot fail to mention that there would be a great deal of cooperation between institutions and organisations. There are, in my opinion, quite a number of possibilities that are not yet being implemented and where there is no progress due to any personal conflicts or contradictions. There must also be a significant change in communication. Just because people are getting smaller doesn't mean that people's skills should get worse. In fact, it should be the case that people working in the government sector become even more professional and the average level is rising. We have a lot of very professional civil servants, local government officials and employees at all. My little proposal is this: let us always be polite and grateful to those people who help us and support us and, more generally, help us to move forward in the functioning of the country. Let us not forget these people and let us not belittle them all the time. Knowledge, competence and skills are what society expects from public service. We must not give in to being demanding anywhere. But it also means that worthwhile people have to get paid. Critics should often consider whether they would be willing to do this work for a modest, medium, or slightly higher salary than the minimum. We need to understand that good wages are paid in order to get good employees in the state office or in the public sector. The average salary gives mediocre employees. The report also indicates that the allocation of additional money does not ensure an increase in the average wage, which requires reforms. I am very happy that they are made and thought about. In my opinion... A little more time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U245	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U246	I propose and emphasise two things that I think are very important in order for the public service to become even better. First, movement between organisations and within agencies. Yes, this is happening, but it should also be very important for people working in public services, public services, to be part of the competence of the private sector. We should think about how to bring more private sector knowledge into the public sector, using a wide range of flexible methods. I see a great deal of potential here and a great deal of opportunity to spread knowledge and skills. Secondly, we should be extremely active in using various e-solutions, as is the case with the e-state. We should pay more attention to them. Yeah, it takes time to develop them, but I think sometimes things can be done with enthusiasm, start-up action and cooperation between different organisations. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U247	Thank you. Does Aadu Black have a procedural question or did he sign up for a speech? Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U248	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The free party is concerned that we are not paying enough attention to how we do one thing or another. Yes, cuts need to be made in the public sector, but this should still be done on a task-based basis. It has also been pointed out here today that it is possible to immediately name a few sectors where there is a screaming drought of people. Such a sector is health care, from which yesterday and today's news does not create the most positive image, but these are also security and security agencies. We cannot accept a solution that is a mathematical equation. Mathematical work is quite an emotionless and uncalculable solution. Beating with an axe in our society is more of a strain that we do not really need. The mathematics is certainly not a reform. We should stop the substitution. By substitution, I mean that there is still a great deal of duplication in public authorities and in the general government at all, a great deal of bureaucracy, which today, if we want to talk about e-state too, is not appropriate in any way. My concern is that we have very little of this e-state. This could be much more in practice. Just because we don't have things planned out is what's gonna blow up the public sector. The big question that I also had when listening to the Minister's answers here is who is actually in charge of the ministry's human resources policy. As far as I know, it should be the chancellor, not the minister. This is where they want to confuse the administrative and political level of governance. There's another question about who's in charge. At the same time, we also have to admit that there are too many pay differences in ministries. There are very large scissors between the lower-level officer and the manager at management level. When they simply say that wages are rising, it does not mean that it affects everyone's wages, but it can still mean a change in the wages of the same people. I would like to thank Mr Lauri for making very constructive proposals. We really need government reform rather than mathematical operations. However, we ask you to pay attention to the question of how one thing or another can be resolved. To begin with, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance could start working together, set an example, as one has set itself the goal of cutting red tape and government administration, while the other is already cutting with scissors. You could sit at one table and work more together, which you could also offer outside in a more substantial way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U249	Thank you. On behalf of the Black Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U250	Ladies and gentlemen, This is indeed a political issue. Sometimes people say that a country can be ruled by an Excel table, lifting something from one cell to another or from another to another, and maybe some things get better. Today, we were also told in some of the speeches that it was important to understand the truths of the abies, how good optimization is. I'm sorry, that's the abbot! We all know that. The question that one or the other has pointed out today, either in questions or in speeches, is something else. The country should be governed wisely. All the criticisms that were presented were not in the sense that we are not going to be better, but in the sense that, if we were to be better, this must not be done illusoryly, but actually, actually. Specific phenomena are those that cause resentment and conviction that things are unthinkable to the end. The same question raised today at the University of Tartu Hospital is one example of how one hand of the government does not know what the other is doing, or whether the hand itself does not know what it is doing. The point is that all current development plans show that the population is ageing and health care needs to be strengthened, it has also turned out that the proportion of people with very good health is falling. All of this has led to a reform, resulting in a more than 100 increase in the number of treatment places at the University of Tartu Hospital and a further 75 increase in the number of day care places. If, on the basis of the development plans, 35,000 square metres of modern treatment space, which certainly requires additional staff, there is nothing to be done. If there's no staff, we're just building concrete again and talking like concrete's gonna solve something. I would also like to point out that the university clinic has constantly optimised and concentrated its staff. There's nothing puffed up in there. In this situation, however, it is considered that we will reduce it by another 15%. Believe me, it's nonsense! This cannot be done without compromising the quality of health care and making access to health services worse. This is something that all our other policies have always denied. It has been found not to do so. The minister answered very nicely. In fact, this is not the main theme of today's item; rather, it is the main subject of the next reports, but it would also be ugly if we did not already point out what could get worse if we did not intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U251	Thank you. The political groups have no further requests to speak. We will not take a decision on this item. We take note of the Minister's report and the answers to questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U252	Let's go to the next item on item 13. The third reading of the draft State Budget Act 2016 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The rapporteur is Mr Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U253	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The second reading of the draft State Budget Act of 2016 initiated by the Government of the Republic took place in the Riigikogu's plenary on 18 November and was completed. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 2 December. The Finance Committee discussed the draft State Budget Act at its meeting on 26 November and 7 and 8 December. I will give you an overview of the state budget after the second reading of the amendments, as well as the decisions made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and proposed to the large Chamber. By the deadline for submitting amendments, the political groups of the Riigikogu made 26 amendments to the draft, most of which overlapd with the proposals submitted for second reading. The explanations of the proposals are given in the list of amendments made available to all members of the Riigikogu. The Committee on Finance itself drafted one amendment, which largely consists of changes in the areas of government within and between ministries. The wording of the paragraphs of the text was also supplemented. Among these changes is perhaps the most important budget change, which will channel EUR 5.6 million into educational expenditure. This internal budget increase in the Ministry of Education will help teachers' pay to rise by over 6% next year. The issue of additional R &amp; D funding was also raised in this large hall at second reading, with amendments tabled. The draft state budget law before you now provides an additional EUR 4.4 million for funding the R &amp; D &amp; I programme next year. Both changes are within the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research. The changes are due to the clarification of the Ministry's spending at the end of the year. All in all, it's like a zero sum, but as a matter of priority, teachers' salaries and R &amp; D are highlighted. Four of the proposals received from the Riigikogu came from the Central Party Group and 22 from the Free Party Group. These concerned increasing the staff costs of the National Audit Office, reducing the funding of political parties, increasing the share of the education costs of the support fund (in fact, the same as I was just referring to the increase in the share of educational expenditure in the budget of the Ministry of Education by internal re-adjustment), increasing the basic funding for research and development, doctoral student support, financing the construction of the hall of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, supporting Horizon's activities, granting transitional support to farmers, increasing the rate of income tax due to local governments, improving access to rehabilitation and developing training opportunities for older people. The proposals of the Free Party Group to increase the financing of R &amp; D, to finance additional national broadcasting, to increase the operating support of the Estonian Olympic Committee, to support the village movement Kodukant and to increase the funding of the Salvation Union were essentially supported. They have been partially supported in the so-called substantive terms and are reflected in Amendment 1 of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Of these, I can say that this, say, consensus or broad-spectrum, which existed in the various groups, was remarkable. The political groups of the Riigikogu made a number of amendments which were formalised as an amendment to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It will increase regional investment and support a number of third sector and civil society projects. This list is available to all and has already been published in printed form to the public. The proposals of all the political groups of the Riigikogu were partially or completely supported. The Committee on Finance took full account of four amendments, one of which I have already referred to here. Three proposals from the Free Party were also taken into account. Next, I would like to highlight the most important or major amendments. One of the proposals discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs at its meeting yesterday and presented by the Group of the Reform Party, the IRL and the Social Democratic Party provides for EUR 200000 to be allocated to the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to support ferry traffic in order to mitigate the planned increase in ticket prices for 2016. As a reminder, a 20% increase in the ticket price was initially planned, but this additional allocation of EUR 200000 will allow for such a large increase not to occur next year. As I said, the proposals made by the Riigikogu's political groups increase regional investment and support projects in the third sector. I would like to highlight the following: EUR 90000 supports the establishment of a sports field in Tartu, EUR 50000 supports the reconstruction of kindergarten in Tür and EUR 50000 supports the construction of Arvo Pärt Music Garden in Paide. Out of the contributions of the third sector and representative organisations, I mention the support of the Estonian Olympic Committee, which amounts to just over 1.4 million euros, the support of the Estonian Paralympic Committee with 50,000 euros and the additional funding for broadcasting to carry out international sports transfers. The Finance Committee proposed to allocate EUR 75000 to the Estonian Children's and Youth Diabetes Association for the purchase of insulin pumps, EUR 50000 to support women's shelters, EUR 50000 to the Estonian Cancer Association for prevention and counselling, EUR 40000 to the Salvation Association and EUR 17000 to the village movement. I have received information about the Salvation League that the record that was recorded in the Commission needs to be clarified. I'm just saying here, just in case, that the request is to turn the acquisition into an operating grant. Similarly, one technical clarification is made with the redeployment of the Ministry of Justice, where one sum, which was intended to finance the Estonian Presidency, has been mistakenly received a double letter. In addition to these proposals, the Committee on Monetary Affairs supported the three proposals of the Free Party: EUR 15000 will be allocated to the training facilities of the Narva Chevalry Building of the Defence Union, EUR 15000 to the Haapsalu Cathedral and EUR 20000 to the blind building. If I now summarise these decisions on the financing of the Estonian Olympic Committee, the broadcasting, the village movement Kodukant and the Salvation Union, as well as the funding of the Estonian Cancer Association, and I read the opinion of Andres Ammas, member of the Monetary Commission today, as if someone had punished the Free Party Group in allocating additional grants, I must admit that I do not understand this. I think Mr Ammas's comment today is extremely unfair. Very many of the proposals made by the Free Party, which I have already mentioned to you here twice, the broadcasting, EOK, Kodukant, the Salvation Association, has been supported. In this context, to say that someone has punished the Free Party is not, in my opinion, very correct. But it's on your conscience. The proposals received are covered by the Government of the Republic's reserve and total changes amount to 6.7 million euros. The remaining proposals submitted were not supported by a majority of the Commission. The reasons for not being supported coincide with those set out in the second reading. According to § 120 (5) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, amendments submitted after the completion of the second reading of the draft state budget which are not supported by the Government of the Republic and which have not been taken into account by the leading committee are not to be voted on. From these proposals, from memory to memory, four are legally or formally to be voted on if there is a desire to do so in the large Chamber. The volume of budgetary changes made for the third reading is indicatively EUR 45 million. I also certify that linguistic and technical clarifications have been made in the text of the draft. Today, at the third reading of the state budget, I would certainly like to thank all the political groups of the Riigikogu and the members of the Riigikogu who have participated in the budget discussions and made their proposals to improve the budget. I would also like to thank the officials of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, who have had very long working days to formalise all these changes correctly, and I would also like to thank the officials of the Ministry of Finance who have helped with this. The consensual proposal of the Committee on Monetary Affairs is to conclude the third reading and put the draft to a final vote. A majority of the votes required for the adoption of the bill as a law. You must be aware of that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U254	Good waitress, thank you! You have questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U255	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am interested in roofing money, or Amendment 1, point 35, if you wish to express it solemnly. The annexes to the proposals set out this on page 24. I didn't count the lines, there's hundreds and hundreds of them. In essence, these are separate proposals. The Free Party considers that bringing these proposals to the committee under the so-called counter is not a good style; it deserves to be ashamed. What do you say we at least do differently next year? If every member of the Riigikogu is placed on such a price tag that it is possible to make proposals to some extent and they receive a positive approach, would it not be more appropriate to do so at least at second reading of the state budget, which would also leave time for a critical reflection if it were foreseen that the representatives of the people should submit proposals individually?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U256	Thank you. Firstly, no proposals were submitted under the counter. At the beginning of the amendments, I said that all of this must be transparent. It was said to all political groups that their proposal would be posted on the Riigikogu's website on a specific day. Both the proposals of the Free Party, the Social Democrats and the Centre Party were made, put forward. There were certainly no proposals from the counter to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Secondly, I am talking about the substance. I also read in my speech all the proposals made by the Free Party and supported, in whole or in part, by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I don't understand your criticism. In essence, the Committee on Finance examined all the proposals at two readings, I think, at three or four meetings. Ask Mr Ammas, who is a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, whether there was a substantive debate or not, and how many of the proposals that your group made after the first and second reading were supported. I don't think there's anything wrong with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U257	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U258	Thank you, good deputy speaker. Good waitress! As I understand it, the Government of the Republic has still not gone this way to contribute to the competitiveness of the agricultural sector. Once again, the possibility of paying transitional support in next year's budget has been missed, although if it is to be paid, it should not be demonstrated to the European Union whether we need it at all. The government has gone down the road of getting special crisis aids. Can you tell me why this happened and will you finally start talking about subsidies with the right concepts?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U259	Using the terms of agricultural subsidies, I think we all speak the same language. There are clear rules. With regard to your specific proposal to apply a 'different approach' to agriculture on a sector-by-sector basis, here we had, yes, a different opinion. You were also at this committee meeting. We referred to the fact that we cannot decide to support one sector in a separate top-up agricultural support system. The rules won't allow it. We cannot go over them in any way in the Riigikogu and say that they do not apply and we like a different decision. It was about terms. Additional crisis aid for agriculture has already been paid by the government from its reserve this year. The amendment to the 2015 budget, as well as additional funding in 2016, will provide EUR 7.6 million for the dairy and pig sector and another EUR 7.6 million for the European Union, with a total of EUR 15.2 million. These decisions have been made by the government and have, in fact, already been made by the Riigikogu to help the agricultural sector. As regards the specific proposals for increasing the additional support for agriculture, yes, the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not support these proposals. These proposals are also beautifully shown in the table of the amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U260	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U261	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! While the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed all the proposals for improvement very substantially, I would like to know what was the reason that our oldest constantly appeared, the only original article that marks the 50th anniversary of the following year's publication, the popular scientific journal Horizon, still remained unsupported.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U262	Thank you. I can build on the Commission's latest debate, where a member of the Environment Investment Centre's Supervisory Board was also present. As we know, this magazine has been funded over the years. He said he'd keep working on it. The initiator, I mean the government, was, yes, in the position that the proposal was not supported. Also in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, once again, it was said that the solution could be achieved through the Environmental Investment Centre, of course, provided that the Council considers it reasonable and appropriate to continue financing this magazine.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U263	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U264	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! If you remember, at our Monday meeting, it was a little confusing whether the extra amount allocated to science would lead to the same level of funding for science next year, for example, as it was this year, or whether it would still be lower or higher. A representative of the Ministry has promised to provide further information, but at least I have not received it. Have you received this information?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U265	Thank you. The additional amount for funding the R &amp; D &amp; I programme is EUR 4.4 million. True, this information, how many percent of this 4.4 million increases funding for R &amp; D in the budget, I have not received feedback, either, but I expect it to arrive within the coming days. I am sure that I will immediately inform the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. EUR 4.4 million is an absolute number on which I can rely now. This amount is also provided for in the budget amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U266	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U267	Thank you, manager. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Yesterday, we agreed in the Commission that no one would lobby as a winner of their work to support the ferry connection. Last night, however, we could read in the media that the government departments made a very excellent proposal and that thanks to them, EUR 200000 was added to the budget. If this is the kind of labelling, the distribution of money through persons and parties, I don't think it serves the purpose. But I have another question. 40,000 euros have been allocated to the Estonian Owners' Confederation. Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, also happens to be on its board. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U268	First of all, I don't know how to comment on the press releases last night. I have not sent out any press release to mitigate the rise in the ticket price of ferry ships, and I cannot tell you exactly what you are referring to. I can confirm that yesterday's decision was consensual, that all the political groups were true, that the representative of the EKRE was not in the committee, but that at least five of the six political groups were represented in support of it. Let it be said, for the sake of the verbatim, that this was certainly not a'signal' decision of one, two or three political groups. As far as the ownership union is concerned, I think that this question, which is what the money is going to be for, must be put to them. If I remember correctly, the purpose of this provision was to develop activities or so. If any member of the Riigikogu or minister is on the board of one or another umbrella organisation, I dare say or at least assume that there is no conflict of interest there. The money can still be used in a targeted way, because there are clear criteria for its use in ministries and then a report needs to be made. If you have any information that should be shared with the Riigikogu, let me know. I don't have any information on that. This was proposed by the IRL through its group. This is a so-called historical fact.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U269	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U270	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President, thank you very much. Let me put it this way. Don't confuse me. We in the Riigikogu need to explain two different things to the people. One is crisis support, which was received by all the countries of the European Union at almost EUR 500 million, which was linked to the events in Russia and the Russians. But the other thing is that transitional support that has not been paid in our country for several years, but that is paid to farmers by our neighbours. Therefore, our farmers' products on the counters cannot compete with those of Polish, Latvian or Lithuanian farmers. I'm asking specifically. You just said you didn't get transitional support, that's all. But is there any justification for this, which is why Estonia is not the only one paying transitional support?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U271	Thank you. Support for a specific sector should be seen in the context of the rural development plan and the funds to be allocated from it over the next seven years. In total, around EUR 1 billion will be allocated through the RDP over the next seven years. The internal distribution is certainly even better known to you, but this is the order of magnitude. I believe that this will certainly be very helpful to agriculture and fisheries. It's not coming out of nowhere, even though it's already like normal, is it? It has somehow been forgotten that this is not the norm. It's a good thing the sector is being supported. The EUR 15.2 million crisis aid once again seems to be the norm, but this money came from half the European taxpayer and the other half came from the Estonian taxpayer through the Estonian state budget. Let us not forget these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U272	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! Do you now consider that all members of the Riigikogu, regardless of their membership of the coalition or opposition, have a level playing field in shaping the budget, both in shaping the entire budget and in shaping the so-called regional investments? If that is not the case, is that what you believe it should be in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U273	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U274	Thank you. All members of the Riigikogu have exactly the same weight and the right to speak in the preparation of the state budget. Speaking of the extent to which one or the other proposal is supported, I say honestly, as I said before, that we assessed all these proposals in very substance. Let's come up with a proposal on broadcasting. After all, you remember very well that you proposed to allocate EUR 650000 to broadcasting, and in the end we remained at EUR 250000. You want a member of the Riigikogu to have some sort of price tag. I don't think it has to be. Rather, it is important to propose to support a specific activity or investment, on the basis of which it can be determined whether and to what extent it could be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U275	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U276	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable spokesperson! I am very embarrassed to ask this question right now. I know that the people of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre also expected a very positive decision. What was the reason? How do you see the problem of the addition of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre? Twenty years will come when the decision of the Riigikogu was taken, which clearly states that there will be an addition to the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, the central part of which will be a proper concert hall. Are we still consistent as a country in the sense that we honour the previous decisions of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U277	Thank you. At last reading, we addressed this issue. The decision you referred to, taken twenty years ago, was about ERM, Kumu and also about the Academy of Music and Theatre. Speaking of the first two, Kumu is ready and ERM is about to be completed. The contrast between the Academy of Music and Theatre and Lilleküla Stadium, I think, was not a proper idea. After the second reading, no one put such a choice before the members of the Riigikogu or the Committee on Monetary Affairs. As I said at second reading, when a member of the Riigikogu voted in favour of one object or another at the time, it does not automatically mean that he opposes another object. Voting in favour of Lilleküla Stadium does not mean that a person is opposed to the Academy of Music and Theatre. I don't think it's right to put that choice on the table. To sum up all this talk, I think that the importance of building the hall of the Music and Theatre Academy is now better known to the members of the Riigikogu. If you see something positive in this process, it is certainly positive to the academy that this financial allocation will come, I dare not say whether, as of next year, the budget for next year will certainly not yet be, but this problem will be resolved next year. I sincerely hope for this and know that there has been an application for European Structural Funds, which should be clarified in January. In terms of awareness of the problem, I am optimistic and I hope that the Academy of Music and Theatre will complete its hall. I'm not gonna give up a date note from this remote. I can't do that. We will wait for January and the call for proposals to end. Hopefully this problem will be solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U278	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U279	Thank you, President-in-Office. I have a request that when asked why- questions are asked, you could answer 'cause of that' rather than find complex reasons why not answer. I am now asking about § 8, which talks about the budgetary position of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. It has been pointed out here in black in white that next year there will be in the next nine, one million, and in 2017 there will be in the next one, one, three million. Where do these cons come from? Where does the income of nearly 8 million come from that minus so much? Where are these shields found? Why is it taken with such a strong minus? Hospitals are concerned that in addition to the downside of the Health Insurance Fund, the Minister of Public Administration has also come to strike with an axe. Where's the logic here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U280	Thank you. That was now, wasn't it, where-the question, not why-the question. I don't know how you think I should answer the question, but I'll try. The funds of the Health Insurance Fund come from social tax, as do the funds of the Pension Fund. Both cats are down. The pension fund is down to 450 million euros, the health insurance fund, as you read it out, at 9.1 million euros, and it's going to decrease from year to year, and in four years, it's going to go to zero. The money that is missing in both cash registers is covered by other revenue from the state budget. That's it. There is no nuclear physics here. [[Interjection.]] Because social tax receipts are what they are.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U281	I'm sorry, good colleagues! We have the opportunity to ask and answer, ask and answer in this Chamber. We don't have a chance to ask in the meantime. Okay. Do you have an answer to that question?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U282	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U284	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Since you didn't answer my first question very well, I'll ask you again. Do you agree with the argument that point 35 of Amendment 1 and several hundred lines on page 24 of the annex to that amendment cover essentially different amendments, but are drafted in the form of a grandiose cluster proposal? Any thinking member of the Riigikogu may be in trouble if he finds that even one line is placed in an unreasonable manner or has questionable content. The fact that you discussed these lines in the committee in essence does not undo such a dilemma.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U285	Thank you. No member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs contested the format in which the proposals made by the political groups of the Riigikogu were presented. The Ministry of Finance qualified all proposals by ministry so that a specific proposal could also become the right place in the state budget. For example, look at the first entry, acquisition of computer-class technology at Haapsalu Elementary School, object code SE000099. If you don't like that the list of objects is either in Excel or in Word, it's hard to argue with. Once again, no one in the Committee on Monetary Affairs disputed that this table of investments or subsidies should be presented and confirmed as such. This was unanimously, consensually confirmed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U286	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U287	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I will continue with the question of the good colleague Arno Silla on agricultural subsidies. The figures you said are, of course, all correct. This EUR 1 billion over seven years comes from half the state of Estonia and half the European Union. However, the agricultural sector is known to compete very closely with neighbouring countries for the market. The same kind of crisis aid is provided by our neighbouring countries, which are our biggest competitors: Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. I assume that the Estonian Government and the Committee on Monetary Affairs have taken into account the behaviour of neighbouring countries when granting subsidies, so that our farmers are competitive and are not in a worse position to fight for the market. Please indicate which grants were paid by the Latvian and Lithuanian governments to their farmers?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U288	Thank you. The level of support from Latvia and Lithuania was not discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs in its discussions. We dealt most closely with further support for the entire agricultural sector when discussing one draft decision. I'm sorry, but I don't remember which group started it. In any case, this meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was also attended by a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture. I doubt whether the situation in Latvia and Lithuania was also described in very detail to us. Ah, the head of the secretariat of the Committee on Monetary Affairs nods that they were described, so we can reprove it and forward the exact figures to you. In any case, I think that the view of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, let us say, of agricultural subsidies may be somewhat narrow, this debate could take place with the Committee on Rural Affairs and the Minister for Rural Affairs. To be honest, the issue was new to the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we got much information and much smarter in this area. But in the future, yes, this debate could take place on two committees together to reach some new conclusions or decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U289	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U290	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! The Centre Party Group made 103 proposals. One provided for the allocation of money to the National Audit Office so that it would be possible to see whether the crats would be involved in the huge procurement of weapons. For transition support and private schools, you guys were festivizing the water. Alar Karis, the Auditor General, whose Estonian Päevaleht has declared one of Estonia's most influential characters, has not been able to obtain 250,000 euros from your coalition government for the third year to see whether the Krats are involved in spending money in the Ministry of Defence. Do you think this man is one of the most influential people in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U291	Thank you. I don't think that influential chart showed up by the time we discussed the financial allocation. I guess that subjectivity isn't in there for a while. But I am not going to speculate here about whether someone is in a position too high or too low in the 'influential table' compiled by Eesti Päevaleht. I can only talk about the amendment that was tabled, yes, for several times already by the Central Party Group. As you rightly pointed out, your wish is to give the National Audit Office extra money to audit national defence procurement so that they can hire auditors. The Committee on Finance did not support this proposal. In a previous presentation, the Minister of Public Administration described the objectives set by the government before ministries and government agencies. There is a need to reduce compositions and to raise the wages of those who remain in work and to work more effectively. This logic is due to the fact that the population is ageing and the number of working hands in the private sector is decreasing, and the public sector cannot just stand by and say that they are hiring more people. This logic also applies to the National Audit Office. The Auditor General, regardless of the overall objective of reducing the number of employees in the public sector, in line with the reduction in the number of employees in the private sector, will not be able to benefit from this table. I don't think even the 1st place in the table would save you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U292	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U293	Thank you, good deputy speaker. Good waitress, thank you for your last answer to me. Now I have a question from this angle. A few weeks ago, the Minister of Education and Research confirmed to the Riigikogu that the goals promised in the coalition agreement have been reversed, they are currently not met, at least in the first year, and there are too many promises. The context at the time was an increase in the salaries of educators and teachers. What is your assessment of this statement as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs? Is it difficult to meet the state budget for the coming year precisely because of the new coalition agreement, where all three parties have put their biggest, best and most beautiful promises together, but it is extremely difficult to meet them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U294	Thank you. There were quite a few questions. First of all, is it difficult to comply with the coalition agreement? The answer is that it is not easy. There are three political parties with different world views in the government, and it is certainly more difficult to find a joint section than it would be between two parties. I dare say it's done well so far. The draft budget also proves that the objectives that the government set in spring and which were included in the coalition agreement have in many ways been included in the budget before you. The government's life expectancy is four years, from one election period to the next, and not all decisions will, of course, be taken with the 2016 budget, something will remain for the next few years. Now, that was about the coalition agreement. What was the second question? Please specify the procedure. Can I give Mr Madison the floor or not? Do you remember that question? [[Interjection.]] Oh, Near, yeah, yeah. I'm sorry! One part of the increase in teachers' pay was already being discussed today when we dealt with the private school law. The second part of the increase in teachers' salaries I described in my report, that is the EUR 5.6 million of the shift that will be made in the budget of the Ministry of Education for the salaries of teachers with the budget for next year. The last best thing to know is that teachers' pay should rise by 6.5% next year. The four-year target is to reach 120% of the Estonian average. That's what the Minister of Education said. These steps will be taken over the years, the first step will hopefully be settled, and this 6.5% increase will come true. But once again, the wage increase consists of several components: additional money, tax revenue, internal redeployments and legislative changes that are currently being dealt with by the Riigikogu. This process is quite complicated. At the moment, I dare say that this 6.5% seems realistic.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U295	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U296	Thank you. Mr President of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The budget will grow by only 5.3% in 2016, and we are not talking for the first time about excise duties producing the main part of the increase. But there was a public service at the debate on the previous item. We learned that 120,000 people work in this sphere, 47% of whom are government officials. How do you assess the role of those who are government officials in the sense that the budget will grow at a faster pace in the coming years, rather than today, where excise duties play a key role?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U297	Thank you. The forecast for next year's social tax and VAT receipts is over EUR 100 million, which is not a small amount of money, which in addition comes from two really basic taxes in terms of budget revenues. There's a simple explanation. We still have unemployment close to the minimum, wages have increased, domestic consumption has increased, purchasing power has increased. It all supports the collection of VAT. Low unemployment contributes to a better collection of social tax. With these taxes, the picture is rather good, and it also shows the state of our economy quite well. As for your reference to public officials, I did not quite understand that logic. You said the increase next year will be only 5%. We're not gonna get rabbits out of our hats. That rabbit is the size of 5% next year. The organic growth of the budget comes in many respects from tax revenues, from the social tax already referred to, and from the better collection of VAT. This, in turn, is possible because the Estonian economy is doing relatively well and unemployment is low. Only that's where the money can come from. Neither state officials nor the Riigikogu can charm it out of any particular place.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U298	Please, Peter Ernits, you're up!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U299	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Let's talk about penthouse money and do it with open cards. As a member of the opposition, I can distribute EUR 25000. You belong to the coalition. How much can you distribute? Give it to me straight. That's another thing. In the future, could it possibly be that all the ambassadors are equal in the distribution of the money for the roof?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U300	I don't know what rooftop money is. This term does not exist in the draft State Budget Act. It exists somewhere in the press and in people's language. I see a number of amendments made by the political groups of the Riigikogu on the draft state budget law. Discussions on which items or activities should receive support from the state budget took place in the political groups. I believe that you have probably discussed this in your group as well, as has been done, I suppose, all the other groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U301	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U302	Thank you, manager. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I think the state budget for next year will be adopted in about half an hour.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U303	That's good.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U304	I think that there has never been such a constructive opposition in the Riigikogu as this time, because there has been no night sitting and no deliberate delay. At the same time, however, it would have been expected that the coalition would have accepted some of the proposals, such as some of the Central Party's amendments, either in the case of farmers' support or in the case of salaries or in any other matter. Unfortunately, the coalition did not meet us. I hope that the opposition's proposals will also be taken into account next time. But if you look at the current economic growth and environment, as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, do you believe that this state budget will not have to be redeployed in the second quarter of next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U305	Thank you. At the moment, there is no reason to believe that this budget should be redeployed. I know what you're referring to. These signals, both from you and, in fact, from the members of another group, that tax revenues have been misestimated, have been heard before. I think it's a very bad signal. If politicians started forecasting tax revenues, we would be on the brink of chaos. Let the tax revenue be forecasted by independent officials of the Ministry of Finance who will be paid for it. This is done on the basis of a specific methodology, where feelings don't matter, feelings have nothing to do with it. There is a purely factual macroeconomic context and different risk assessments, and a forecast of tax receipts can be made when putting them together. Your question referred to it as if some kind of tax receipts were overestimated in the budget. I'm saying there isn't one. The Ministry of Finance has always been more conservative. The Ministry of Finance has always been more conservative than Eesti Pank or the European Commission in its economic forecast, growth or even recession forecasts. I do call on the members of the Riigikogu to reduce this ambition, that they want to start forecasting tax receipts themselves. Let it be done by specialists who deal with it every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U306	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! § 2 of the draft law sets the rates and limits, which also determine the grants for the following year. For example, I read here that, within the meaning of the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities, the rate of social benefits is 25.57 euros per month. I do not quite remember what year this amount is from, but at least since 2011, the level of social benefits has not been changed, but the levels of benefits depend on it. This means that, for example, benefits for disabled children or older people have not changed for a long time. They're ridiculously small. For example, the allowance for an elderly person with an average disability is 12.79 euros per month. This should cover the additional costs of the disability. Has the Commission discussed the need to increase the level of social benefits? Indeed, time has done its job and it is no longer possible to compensate for the extra costs of this EUR 12.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U307	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U308	Thank you. No such proposal was submitted to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I do not recall that we have discussed this separately during the budgetary discussions, but we are certainly prepared to do so in the future if someone brings this up.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U309	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U310	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You gave a very nice lecture on how tax revenues should be forecast when you answer Tarmo Tamm's question. When putting together the state budget for next year, certain tax increases, such as increases in excise duties on fuel, have also been planned. Nevertheless, you and your coalition partners supported the Ministry of Finance's proposal to postpone the tax increase initially scheduled for 1 January to 1 February, on the grounds that the fuel excise duty will be better achieved next year. Explain to the people in this Chamber the logic of delaying the tax increase by a month will ensure that the excise duty will be better collected next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U311	Thank you. I must make it clear, Mr Simson, that the argument was not that it would be better, but that the argument of the Minister for Finance was, in fact, that there had been an accident at work. When a bill was made in spring, which provided for an increase in excise duties on fuel, just instead of the right date, which was scheduled for 1 February, it was by mistake 1 January. That was recital one. The second reason was that the consumer would be more advantageous if he could buy petrol with a lower excise duty rate for a month. Neither the Minister of Finance nor I have used the argument for better returns.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U312	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U313	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. My question relates to agriculture. We know that there is no top-up disbursement planned in next year's budget, but you certainly looked at this picture more widely and thought about it. Do you have a plan to start paying these grants over the next year or even over the seven years, which is the period of European subsidies, let us put it this way? I'm asking because I think we're going to have problems. When we start negotiating in the European Union, they are simply telling us that they will not give us more money because we have not taken advantage of the opportunity we have been given, we have not paid our farmers anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U314	Thank you. You are currently facing the draft State Budget Act 2016 and no decisions have been taken here in advance for the following years. If the question is whether additional transitional support could be paid in 2017, then if the government comes up with such a bill or if the Riigikogu finds support for this proposal, it will be done. If they don't come out, if they don't find support, they don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U315	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U316	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Minister of Finance you referred to in reply to my previous question is a politician, a skilled language politician. He might say that delaying the 14% increase in diesel excise duty by a month is due to the fact that people want to give a gift so that they can buy cheaper fuel for a month. But according to the top official of the Ministry of Finance, who went to the Riigikogu to introduce this bill to the Finance Committee, this is not the case. Will a month's delay have a positive or negative impact on the collection of excise duty in 2016 or will the monthly gift to citizens leave the state budget exactly the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U317	Thank you. The bill takes account of the receipt of excise duties on fuel in such a way that excise duties on fuel will rise on 1 February 2016. Yes, the forecast on the basis of which the draft budget has been drawn up takes into account that the increase in excise duties will take effect on 1 February 2016. Will any increase in excise duties on fuel have a positive impact on the budget's revenue? Of course it will, but it's already included in this budget when it's made up.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U318	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U319	Thank you! Good waitress, I have two questions. The first relates to today's statement by the Free Party. Can you confirm that when additional grants and investments were made on the proposal of the political groups, the Free Party was able to implement its will with its proposals and have not been contradicted? Question two. There was a little fear that we're just gonna get some money distributed around here. My colleague Peter Ernits said that he has the authority to share something simply. Are these proposals really targeted?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U320	Behind each proposal, as you can see, is the goal that is to be achieved, it is an investment, a acquisition or support for some organisations, but it is necessary for it to be able to perform its everyday functions. Speaking of purposefulness, as I said before, the ministries through which this money is allocated will monitor the use of the money and will have to report on it. To come to the first question, to satisfy the wishes of the Free Party Group, we will repeat it. After the first and second readings, the Free Party made proposals to support R &amp; D. This will be supported by EUR 4.4 million next year. They had a proposal to support national broadcasting with EUR 650000, according to the draft proposed by you, EUR 250000 will be supported. In order to increase the operating support of the Estonian Olympic Committee, after the first reading, the Free Party proposed to direct EUR 1.5 million, if I remember correctly. EUR 1.4 million will be earmarked for this purpose. In order to support the village movement Kodukant, it is now proposed to allocate EUR 17000. If my memory doesn't fool me, the Free Party has proposed to allocate $30,000 or $40,000. EUR 40000 shall be allocated to the Salvation Union. After the first reading, the Free Party proposed to allocate money to the Estonian Cancer Association. According to this draft that you are currently proposing, EUR 50000 will be allocated to the Cancer Alliance. In addition, the Committee on Monetary Affairs supported the proposal of the Free Party to allocate EUR 15000 to the training facilities of the Alutaguse Maleva Building of the Defence Union, EUR 15000 to the Haapsalu Cathedral and EUR 20000 for the investment of the blind association's house. If anyone so wishes, these amounts may somehow be distributed to people or groups. In any case, these are the proposals made by the Free Party and supported, in part or in full, by the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U321	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U322	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Is the budget for next year a very grateful initiative to build housing rented by the state of Estonia? If so, how much is it worth? Since I still have time for a question, I will ask you about the EUR 15000 allocated to the Baltic Center for Russian Studies research project. Who did this proposal come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U323	Thank you. There are over 500 entries here. I cannot respond by heart to the proposals made by all the political groups. Proposals from all political groups are posted on the Riigikogu website among the materials of the Finance Committee at the draft state budget. From there you can get the combination of Ctrl + F, I think, the fastest way to get it. The proposals of all the political groups are there. What was the first question? [[Interjection.]] Rental houses, that's right. I'm sorry! As far as I know, there will be no money for the rental house project next year's budget. There is no such line in the administration or administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. As far as I know, the Minister of Enterprise is analysing the feasibility of this whole project. I myself am rather skeptical about the need to build separate rental homes in Estonia. But it's not about handling this bill. The short answer is that there will be no euro in the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U324	Good waitress, thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Kadri Simson, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech! Three minutes extra time, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U325	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The state budget for next year will be before us for the last time today. Soon, the manager will wave the hammer and the budget will be adopted. Is this a budget that solves the most painful problems of the Estonian state? It's most likely not. We do not see in the budget the solution to what to do with emigration, the periphery of rural areas will continue at the same rate next year, and growth will tend to stagnate. Next year's budget is again one of the Excel tables among many. Since he is in the form of a table, at first glance he deceives, but as he deepens, the bitter truth is revealed. This truth is equally bitter for everyone, both the coalition and the opposition. At times, it is even bitterer for the opposition, because we see and refer to problems, but the rulers are deaf and blind as they hear. In November, the Prime Minister said bravically that he who accepts slow economic growth should raise his hand. Taavi Kõivas and his government have accepted it. A group of experts was set up to formulate ways of accelerating growth, but its proposals will only be presented in the autumn of next year. For a year, the government can talk to the dull face of fish, so that they do not worry about economic growth, they deal with it. Yeah, the government's been working on it, just like it has been for the last five years. In 2009, Estonia's GDP per head was 62% of the European Union average, while Lithuania's GDP was 57%. Last year the figures were such that the result was in favour of Lithuania: 74% of the European Union average compared to 73% of Estonia. Lithuania has caught up with us with seven leagues of boots and even missed us. Who is the Baltic tiger today and who has turned into a home cat on the couch? According to Statistics Estonia, Estonia's economic growth slowed to 0.7% in the third quarter. The Ministry of Finance acknowledges that the situation is weeping, but it is because it calls for a depressive global economic environment. Swedbank is much more specific in its latest economic forecast: 'Enterprise investments have decreased for the fourth quarter in a row and their share of GDP has therefore fallen to the lowest level for 20 years. " Why is there no investment in Estonia? I thought we had the best tax system in the world. Why have Estonian entrepreneurs turned their backs on the government? One Estonian entrepreneur has said that it is more secure to engage in entrepreneurship in a seismologically active region than in Estonia, because here you will never know what government has planned for tomorrow. It is too painful for entrepreneurs to remember that only a few weeks' notice raised VAT. Too ignorant is still the fact that Estonia has four and a half times the minimum level of electricity excise duty in the European Union. Of course, it can be smiled that its effect on the electricity bill of a single-room apartment is measurable in cents, but if the company spends more than 20 million euros a year paying gas bills, the difference is whether the excise duty is 1 euros or 4.5 euros. Economics expert Heido Vitsur is right. Estonia's economic policy has been too passive and over-stability valued. There is no courage to make major infrastructure investments and a thorough tax reform has been avoided. Today's government is characterised by the closure of the dogma network. The world changes every day, and yesterday's rules don't apply today. Dogmas such as 'we do not increase the progressiveness of the income tax system', 'any loan is always bad' and 'the budget only has a cost side, the revenue side is sacred' does not allow you to look at the wider picture. Estonia is an exceptionally low-debted country, while the European Central Bank's printing presses are fully operational. I have the feeling that Estonia is no longer admired as a country with a low tax and debt burden. Our debt will be looked at rather as to what is wrong with these Estonians, whether they have not understood that the situation and the rules have changed. I will now come to the amendments tabled by the Centre Party Group and start with the sources of cover. This time they were the sale of surplus fuel supplies and the reserves of the Government of the Republic. Our amendments were hardly on the table of the Committee on Monetary Affairs when the annual scream began on how these sources of cover are not right now. The sources of the opposition's cover have never been or will never be suitable for the coalition. We've tried everything. One year already in spring, we wrote a letter to the Minister of Finance about what should be taken into account in the budget forecasts in spring. There wasn't even an answer to that letter. We still believe that supporting Estonian farmers to the maximum extent permitted by the European Union is important and essential. We believe that education for children is not a place to save. For us, the financial autonomy of the municipalities means something other than that the municipalities have to beg for roofing money from the state budget by a thousand euros. We believe in the National Audit Office. If the National Audit Office says that they have been lacking funds for auditing defence expenditure for the last three years, this is not a joke, it must be taken seriously. In the summer, they opened a coalition treaty. It was promised that the income base of local governments would be respected, and this would be ensured. It was said that farmers should receive at least half of the transitional payments and that the salaries of teachers, including kindergarten teachers, were allowed to be increased. But what was demanded during the summer was not received. At the same time, the proposals of the Centre Party on this issue were not supported. Since the coalition is no longer able to make decisions together, the three of them could also stick to their principles. Well, we're staying. Therefore, the Centre Party Group cannot support the 2016 state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U326	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Estonian Free Party Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U327	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Since ancient times, Estonians have enjoyed euphemism, for example, saying a smog or a bushvillem instead of a wolf. If I have spoken about this remote control earlier on behalf of the Free Party about the coming year's budget, I have called this budget a ticking budget, which I could say is another year towards death. Colleagues have called this a running budget. Today is the time to tell you straight that this is a lousy budget. The Free Party cannot support it in this form. It's bad because it's gonna give our country a hard time. The first problem of the state budget, which is not new, is the fact that it is difficult for a member of the Riigikogu to understand even with the help of specialists. Even an independent specialist is often unable to help. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance on Monday, we missed the answer to the rise in teachers' salaries, how this money moved from one programme to another, and it also became unclear where the money initially disappeared and where the money came out again for basic research funding, and what a drop in the funding of science is, nevertheless, compared to this year. As you may have seen a few times today, maybe only Near knows the answer, and he too denies it. In this way, it is almost impossible to find reasonable sources of cover for the amendments. It is very difficult to identify, for example, why the management costs of some ministries, state agencies or foundations have increased so much in a year, as much of this growth is justified and how much some hidden buffer amounts are. In the view of the Free Party, it is important that this issue, which is already raised in the round of questions and answers, is: every national delegation must have an equal opportunity and the right to have a much greater say in the budgetary process, not just as a mediator of the government's mercifully made small allocations. We talk a lot about civic education and inclusion, but right now we are in a situation where a normal intelligent person is unable to understand a budget without assistance. This situation is in no way appropriate for civil society. I will specify what the chairman of the committee said: the price tag for the members of the Riigikogu would be even more accurate to say that their thoughts are still influenced by the government coalition, true, also by previous government coalitions, who have assessed the ability of the members of the Riigikogu to submit proposals very differently, up to three times the difference. The coalition's proposals are three times more valuable than those of the opposition. Now, more specifically, this budget before us. Yes, even the Free Party has been very difficult to understand since the first reading, which is the basis for the government's optimism that the revenue side of the budget will be collected at all. If there is an economy around, where will this projected economic growth come from? But we're only happy if the government is right this time. At second and third reading, we would have expected the government to adjust the major past failures, in particular the salaries of teachers, transitional subsidies for agriculture, the allocation of funds to municipalities for new responsibilities, the allocation of funds to increase internal security. None of this has happened. However, it is clear to very many in this Chamber that there is an austerity point, particularly in terms of the costs of governance. The costs of ministries and other central authorities are too high, here we can handle less. Politicians themselves should set an example by reducing the funding of political parties and the reimbursement of expenses. I'm afraid it hasn't been done. It has not been easy for the officials who have drawn up the budget. The Estonian economy is not growing, the promises of the government agreement need to be fulfilled. To maintain the coalition of cancer, pike and swan, every minister needs to like it, everyone has to give it a little bit. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U328	Yeah, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U329	I agree with Jürgen Ligi here that such a way of putting together a budget is unreasonable. Indeed, the substance of this budget was put in place with the June cluster bill. Then a cover was scraped from the rise in excise duty and elsewhere for some electoral promises, but none of the main problems facing the Estonian state is being solved by today's government. We all know and perceive the demographic problems facing our country, the problem of peripheralization, the unsustainable nature of our social system, but the government dares to offer neither tax policy nor social policy solutions. First of all, when drawing up the budget, one should ask what such a budget will do for the development of the Estonian economy, not which government promises will be fulfilled specifically this time. This is the case before us, with no clear goals, no focus, no strong middle, which would also pull the edges along. In order for the economy to grow sometime, we think that no one has offered a better solution than to invest in brains, education, research, development, to win a world-wide talented war. But the budget before us does not lead us towards a vibrant, dynamic, flexible, effectively learning, smart and hard-working Estonia, which was set by our employers in their manifesto a year ago. I cannot in any way agree with the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs that the debate in the committee has always been substantive. Yes, I admit that the debate has been correct, indeed, but that it is not substantive on opposition proposals. We can talk about keeping together at a prayer breakfast, but after rising from the table, the coalition will soon lose any thought of possible cooperation with the opposition. We come to this hall and we are again divided into goats and sheep, even though we are all equally chosen to stand up for the weaker than paraphrasing the scripture from the Bible in this prayer. In my opinion, the proposals made by the Free Party have not been sufficiently developed, whether or not to include proposals for additional agricultural support, to increase doctoral student support and to provide start-ups with the kind of assistance that these companies really need. I will once again bring out the publication of the popular scientific journal Horizon, which has been published for 50 years, and which could still end with the approval of the majority in this hall. This is not a minor issue. We have very consistently proposed that the promise made by our predecessors 19 years ago be fulfilled to build the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, including the hall of this educational institution. We all love to praise our homeland to say that we have beautiful women, wise children and talented musicians, using the words of Valdur Mikita, but we owe these musicians this hall. On 17 December, a procession will pass from here for our house, which will sing Sibelius's Christmas song 'No Honor, No Glory I desire'. Yeah, well, musicians do, but they need a hall too. For the above reasons, neither can the Free Party Group support the adoption of such a state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U330	Thank you. I ask for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu Priit Sibula, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U331	Of course. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U332	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U333	Jüri Ratas, Vice-President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, A final vote on the 2016 state budget is about to take place. A baby is about to be born, and relatives and acquaintances are about to gather to see whose face he is. No, it doesn't look like a neighbor. The child is the face of Estonian society. From this face, we are faced with an ageing society in the form of a large increase in social spending, and we are faced with a strained world in the form of an increase in defence spending. Of course, I would like this budget to look more like the IRL. Our coalition partners would like to see more of their faces there. However, the budget's creators are three parties with different world views, so it is primarily a budget for compromises. A little over two months ago, I was just here giving an overview of myself and IRL's perceptions of what this budget should be like. I'm going to stop for a moment in these positions, but briefly, because as a conservative person, my views have not changed. Firstly, the budget for the coming year has been drawn up conservatively and responsibly. Conservative fiscal policy is the basis for stability in the economy, which ensures that the Estonian state is tax-intensive and does not survive its ability. Secondly, my major concern is spending on social affairs, which will increase next year in nominal circa EUR 209 million. Moreover, social and other benefits for natural persons account for approximately 30% of the total national budget for 2016. It's like building a social state based on subsidies. However, my concern is precisely the people whose contribution to this budget is being drawn up. What kind of signal does it send to entrepreneurs and workers? Thirdly, in the coming year, the budget priority will be to contribute to the working people and the tax refund on low-paid people initiated by the IRL. This measure has been put into practice, especially when it comes to people who work every day, but still cannot live up to their poor incomes. We bet on people who will continue to prefer to work for social benefits. I note that, in the case of both this tax refund and tax policy at all, the IRL is always based on the principle that measures must be needs-based and targeted at those in need, such as home support for families with many children. Any money from an airplane is ineffective and, let us be honest, that is one of the reasons why spending in the social field is increasing. Fourthly, I would like to mention the cost of protection. True, the fact that 2% of GDP goes for defence expenditure is already a tradition and does not go beyond the new threshold for a long time. However, in view of what changing world we live in and how conflict-like and provocative Russia is, I believe that we should contribute even more to this. I therefore point out that, after 2%, we invest money in the presence of our allies in Estonia. In 2016, we will spend some 11 million euros on this, mainly on developing Tapa campus and improving training opportunities on the Central Polygon of the Defence Forces. Fifthly, I would like to highlight reforms and austerity: the freezing of the payroll fund in the vast majority of the public sector, the reduction in the number of officials and the preparation of administrative reform. For the sake of administrative reform, IRL has worked for years to make the structure of Estonian municipalities more cost-effective. Today, for the first time, we have reached a situation where the issue is covered by the coalition agreement, and we also agree with the coalition partners. In addition to the administrative reform, the government plans reforms in the country's organisation next year. The demographic situation is making its own corrections and society cannot be opposed to ageing, at least not in the near future. Thus, if the number of people of working age is to decline throughout the country, the number of people who are paid by the state must also decrease; otherwise, we are finally a state of officials, as many entrepreneurs have said. To this end, 750 posts will be concentrated in the public sector next year. Sixthly, thanks to reforms, the country has the opportunity to keep pace with the overall wage increase. We give more pay to teachers, social workers, cultural workers with higher education, police and internal security workers. They account for an increase of approximately 4% in the payroll fund. I would also like to say a few words about education. Firstly, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Education for the aim of raising teachers' pay by 6.4% next year. I believe that this is part of the move towards a common, big goal. Only good education and research serving Estonian interests can be the guarantee of the long-term development of the Estonian state. In order to achieve this objective, I stand and I also advocate that the share of the education sector in GDP should continue to be 6 to 7% and that the share of education expenditure in the budget should not decrease in the future. Of course, I have to admit that there are details that I do not quite agree with the Minister. At times, during the debate on the financing of private schools, there is the impression that there has been a general collision between me and the Minister on a fundamental level, although this is not the case at all. On the contrary, I think we both believe in the principle that a private initiative in the education system is a great achievement, being an innovator of education and a leader of inclusion. Finally. It is likely that everyone in this budget will be able to find a lot of points that are pleasing to themselves, as well as those that need additional financial support. However, in the end, the entire budgetary process is one of the great art of compromise. If all ministers have been able to compromise in their area of government, then we will also be able to find a common path with Minister Ligi to the successful continuation of private education in Estonia next year and in the future. Looking for will and sensible solutions so far gives us the conviction that the budget needs to be supported and further worked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U334	Thank you. I ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Martin Helme! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U335	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, When the budget came from the government to the Riigikogu, I commented on it as raising money from one pocket to another. I agree to a large extent with the comments and murmurs made by both my colleague, Mr Samson, and my colleague, Mr Ammas, on this budget, but I would like to mention a few other shortcomings or problems, particularly as regards raising this money from one pocket to another. In the spring, when we were here wrestling over tax increases, basically the battles that usually accompany the state budget and were cancelled at the end of this year were abandoned. At the time, excise duty was increased, which in turn increases people's driving costs, home-cooked costs and, of course, the money spent on these 'bad vices' or tobacco and alcohol. Let us consider that excise duty is a tax on which a separate tax is still paid, i.e. the excise duty will later run out of value added tax. It is therefore no wonder that we are expecting better VAT receipts next year. It has also been welcomed that labour taxes will be better received. This makes perfect sense because pensions are rising slightly and the minimum wage is rising, which is the money coming from the state budget. Pensions are also money coming from the state budget. The increase in the share of social expenditure in the state budget was a major concern of the previous speaker. Perhaps with the same taxes that are collected, the same tax increases that come will give people more money, and the tax receipts will grow. This is the increase from one pocket to another that characterises this budget. At the same time, we knew this already in the spring, that Estonia's economic growth is slowing down, exports are decreasing, investments have been negative for a long time, and the external environment is also deteriorating after the security situation has become more difficult. I do not resent the government that it is a cautious or conservative budget, as Priit Sibul called it. Things aren't bad in this budget. However, some of the priorities that are crucial to us are backwards or have been disregarded in the proposals for improvement. When we talk about the need to improve the competitiveness of Estonian companies, the first place where it should be improved is to reduce unequal competition in the single euro market. For this purpose, the Estonian state should pay transitional payments, i.e. top-ups, to its farmers. The amounts we are talking about here are modest in terms of the state budget, around EUR 21 million. If, for example, the cereal premium for cereals were to go very well this year, it would be about EUR 15 million. Such proposals, made by the Conservative People's Party and all the other opposition parties, were of course not supported by the Coalition. The result is not an end to agriculture in Estonia; the result is a slip of agricultural production from Estonian owners to foreign owners. It's something quite different than just the extinction of the countryside. It is the conversion of Estonians into pops in their own country, the elimination or disappearance of the host society. This is a very fundamental, very long-term, very serious problem. In Estonia, this money was not found, whereas in the state budget, to say the least, money is found for almost all kinds of things. There is no shortage of money in Estonia, as it turns out when you look at this budget, as difficult as it is. If the priority is not to keep food production alive in our country and keep it in the hands of Estonian owners, then we cannot support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U336	Thank you. I ask Mr Andres Anvelt, representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U337	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Today is, you can say, one of the culminations of the Riigikogu year, namely, our political campaign of power always culminates in the reading of the state budget. I dare say, on the basis of my not very long parliamentary experience, that the two consecutive years, when the Social Democrats have been part of the coalition, though in different coalitions, have gone more smoothly than before. The reasons are very simple, I think. The fact alone that both this and next year's budgets have put a great deal of emphasis on helping the weaker part of our society, the weaker group of people. If it is called excessive social expenditure, I am certainly arguing against it. In the past decades, the Estonian state has not excelled in helping those who, because of the laws of the jungle, are not able to survive because of their youth or old age. In the budget for next year, as in the budget for the year that is already ending, we have also put emphasis on the increase in child support, which will continue next year and also in subsequent years. There is certainly no underestimation of the 5.7% pension increase, which is one of the biggest in the years to come. Of course, this is not satisfactory; we would like this rise to contribute even more to a decent life, but we still have to work on it. We recognise that today's tax policy may be very difficult to do more in this area, but in any case we Social Democrats see our role in defending those parties who would otherwise have been left unprotected. It may be said that it is more appropriate to stick to our very firm, often stigmatised, principles in opposition and not to try to take small but important steps together in the coalition. It's easy to criticize. After the previous speakers, sometimes it seems that something has been done badly in this budget, something may have been overlooked. I'm sure it is. However, all of these challenges must be addressed by all of us in the future. When the first reading of the state budget was a few months ago, I asked in my speech and asked many others what the Riigikogu could do. Today we heard a great deal about the 'roof money'. I don't really want to use that word outside my life as a writer. As a writer, I describe the rooftop money in the 1990s with great colour. I would call these amounts state budget allocations. Here too, I think, very much has been done in the Riigikogu Hall. It should not be forgotten that solutions have been found here in the Riigikogu. For example, women's shelters, which have been funded by the Norwegian State, but this funding will end in the spring of this year. Nearly 200000 euros were found here in the Riigikogu to continue these projects. This was once again done to protect the weaker side. It should not be forgotten that instruments were also found to increase teachers' pay, so that it grows by nearly 6% instead of 4%. It should also not be forgotten that the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for example, found money in recent days, taking into account the joint proposal of coalition parties, also... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U338	I'm sorry, but you said "please"! Are you asking or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U339	Please. You're asking, yes, okay. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U340	I told you I'd ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U341	We may get into a linguistic argument, but courtesy tells me the right thing is to beg. ...to support ferry traffic so that the price increase is not so high. All the small things that have been done have been done to further alleviate problems in critical places, which unfortunately has also become the activity of Estonian National Broadcasting, for example, by making sports broadcasts. I hope that in the future these things will be clarified in the budgetary strategy of the state, much earlier than in the Riigikogu, because the transmissions of the sports events of Estonian National Broadcasting do not mean an emergency situation, we know these things in advance for years, and the executive power should also take them into account in the preparatory work for the budgetary process. To sum up, I would like to say that it can be criticised that the draft budget for the state budget, the coalition budget that we are now going to vote on, has been done in the Excel table, but in any case it is better to put this matter in figures than in a table containing words in the Word format, although it is often criticised by opposition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U342	Thank you. I would like to ask Remo Holsmer, representative of the Reform Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U343	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, The country has EUR 8.9 billion in its purse for next year. This is more than EUR 300 million more than it was this year. The purpose of budget expenditure is to increase the security of the Estonian state, support economic growth and improve the business environment. With the budget, we want to improve people's livelihoods and support families with children. The opposition groups made criticism that there were no priorities. However, security, children and the business environment are the objectives that need to be financed to preserve the Estonian state, and the budget will do so. I'm talking about three more important things. First, a safe and protected Estonian state. The Estonian national defence budget will account for more than 2% of GDP next year. In addition to the minimum defence expenditure agreed in NATO, additional amounts will be allocated to the cost of the Allied Forces being here. The budget foresees EUR 20 million for the completion of the eastern border. This is the least Estonia can do in the current security situation. Secondly, in order to improve the livelihood of families with children and increase the birth rate, the state budget for next year will be EUR 375 million. Compared to absolute numbers, it is almost as much as the state contributes to its defence capability. The allowance for the first and second children shall be increased from 1 January to 50 euros, the allowance for the third and for each of the next children shall be 100 euros. The parental benefit rate will increase and the principles of payment will not be changed. Thirdly, I would like to point out that pensions will rise by 5.7% next year and the average old-age pension will be nearly EUR 400 per month. Due to the additional tax-free income of pensions, the average pension will remain exempt in the future. Let us put this in context: from a budget of almost EUR 9 billion, EUR 1.65 billion will be paid out to pensions. Now I'm talking about the business environment. How does the budget contribute to growth and the business environment? Firstly, the government aims to create a favourable business environment, i.e. low tax rates and a simple tax system, but also to cut red tape. Both the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Finance have taken the heart of reducing bureaucracy and making it easier for small businesses to communicate with the state. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry and many other business organisations have sent a number of proposals not to mention hundreds of proposals on how the state can simplify the lives of businesses. I am sure that the government will come up with proposals on this matter soon. Undoubtedly, we members of the Riigikogu also have a major role to play in realising these proposals. Secondly, the state contributes directly to economic growth through investment. Next year, investment through the state budget will increase by 22.5% to 480 million euros. A favourable economic environment is supported by a reduction in the expected tax burden on labour. In the coming years, the social tax rate will fall; next year, the tax-free minimum will increase from EUR 154 to EUR 170. These steps will directly reduce the tax burden on labour, which has been referred to for years by business organisations. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Now about the debates here in the Riigikogu. First of all, I'm referring to Kadri Samson's report. He spoke of the sources of cover and of the fact that the sources of cover offered by the opposition in no way fit, even if they were four, in any case opposed. But selling the liquid fuel supply would mean a direct loss to the State of EUR 2 million. In no way can I be convinced that it would be reasonable to simply trade a loss. This is not in spite of the proposals of the Central Party or opposition parties at all. It's just unreasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U344	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, it's buzzing in the hall. I beg that we honor the waitress, and I beg that we honor those who wish to listen! Thank you! We'll give you three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U345	Onward, from the criticism of the budget. Retorically, the public has painted a picture of the budget as at least walking on the edge of the end of the world. It has been said that this budget is a ticking clock bomb and it is a bending budget. All sorts of relatively tagging activities have been pursued in relation to the budget. Each party is undoubtedly free in its own assessments, but my question is where there are alternatives to the alternative solutions that the parties represented in the Riigikogu see. If we look at the amendments, the proposal with the highest financial value was EUR 21.5 million, with a budget of 8.9 billion. Everyone can also assess whether there is a need for the economy to grow and wages to rise even more, the most important thing in Estonia is to reduce the cost benefits and the funding of political parties. Everyone should also be aware of the credibility of this proposal. It is said that it must be done differently or that this ticking must be stopped, but in my opinion, the opposition did not offer a credible alternative to the budgetary plan proposed by the government. In a way, I understand that too. This was relatively difficult to do because the proposed budget plan was already too mature to draw up a very fundamental conflict in the Riigikogu. I also understand the literary expressions used for the budget: ticking, clock bomb, etc. When it is difficult to make criticism of content, fictional expressions are always found; when you read a book you always find them, there is no question. Next year's state budget is socially balanced and supports Estonia's long-term goals. As I said at the beginning, the aim is for Estonia to be protected, for more children to be born here, and for the business environment to continue to be favourable and attractive. In any case, the Reform Party Group supports this budget. I also call on all the other groups to support the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U346	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. We will begin the examination of the 103 amendments to the draft. 27 amendments to the draft have been received. The first amendment is from the lead committee, the position being taken fully into account. Urve Tiidus, please! Would you like a vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U347	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U348	Okay, thanks. The second amendment has been received from the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is not taken into account. According to § 120 (5) of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, this proposal is not to be voted on. The third amendment is from the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is not taken into account. According to § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. The fourth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. According to § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. The fifth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. According to § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. The sixth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. According to § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. The seventh amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. According to § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. The eighth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. According to § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. The ninth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is to take full account. The tenth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 11 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is to take full account of. Amendment 12 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 13 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 14 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 15 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. Amendment 16 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 17 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. According to § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 18 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. According to § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 19 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. Amendment 20 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. According to § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 21 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 22 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. Amendment 23 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. Amendment 24 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. According to § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 25 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. Proposal No 26 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is to take full account of. Amendment 27 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. According to § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that draft 103 should be put to the final vote at third reading. I shall put draft 103 to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 58 members of the Riigikogu, against 40, with no abstentions. Bill 103 of the 2016 State Budget Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been passed as a law. The 13th item is closed. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U349	Let's move on to item 14. The second reading of the draft 131 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the NATO response forces' is launched by the Government of the Republic. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the National Defence Committee Madis Milling!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U350	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The deadline for submitting amendments to the draft was 5.15 p.m. on 2 December and no amendments were tabled. At the meeting of the National Defence Committee on 7 December, the draft made one technical specification in point 2: the locations of the date (1 January) and the year (2016) were changed. This clarification corresponds to the wording used in point 1 of the draft and to the requirements of the standard techniques. At this very meeting on 7 December, the National Defence Committee unanimously approved the draft text and the explanatory memorandum at second reading. On 8 December, the National Defence Commission's departure session took place at the Defence Forces' headquarters, where the Defence Forces officers gave an overview, which takes place in areas where the Estonian Defence Forces also participate in the international mission. The Commission also received an overview of the preparation of Estonian mine-hunting personnel, including staff officers and officers and other units, to participate in NATO response forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U351	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, there's a buzz in every row of the hall. Please respect the waitress and those who wish to listen to the waitress. Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U352	Thank you. I understand that there are still tensions and adrenaline since the budget was adopted. Now I'm gonna tell you a little bit about the background. Estonia's participation in the NATO Response Force (NRF) is based on Estonia's NATO membership. All NATO Member States contribute to the NRF, except Iceland, which does not have its own defence forces. The NRF is also an important tool for the rapid launch of NATO's collective self-defence operations. Participation in the NRF is therefore related to Estonia's security. NATO response teams may be used for a collective defence operation under the NATO Treaty, as set out in Chapters 6 and 7 of the United Nations Charter. The use of the NRF is decided unanimously by the NATO Council, which means that the NRF can only be used with the consent of Estonia. According to the draft, Estonia will contribute to the NRF with up to 210 active troops. According to the current plan, these would be special forces operatives, a mine hunter's crew and staff officers, and an infantry company plus its support element. At the meeting on 7 December, the National Defence Committee decided to consensually propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U353	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. No amendments to bill 131 have been received. The position of the lead committee is that the draft should be put to a final vote at second reading. Good colleagues, I'm going to put a final vote on bill 131. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents, no abstentions. Draft 131 of the decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the NATO response forces' has been adopted as a decision. The item on item 14 is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U354	Let's move on to item 15. The second reading of the draft 132 of the Riigikogu's decision of the Government of the Republic to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on a peace-building mission in Kosovo begins. I ask Ain Lutsep, member of the National Defence Committee, to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U355	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of Bill 132 was completed on 18 November. No amendments to the draft were tabled by the deadline of 2 December at 5.15 p.m. At the meeting on 7 December, the National Defence Committee made a single linguistic amendment to point 2: the date of entry into force of the decision of the Riigikogu was written in such a way that it was the year and then the date. This correction is compatible with the wording used in paragraph 1 of the draft and complies with the requirements of the norm. At its meeting on 7 December, the Commission unanimously approved the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. On 8 December, the National Defence Commission met at the Defence Forces' headquarters. An overview of what is happening in areas where the Estonian Defence Forces participate in international missions. The Commission also received an overview of the preparation of the active troops of the Estonian Defence Forces to continue their participation in Kosovo in the NATO-led peacekeeping mission KFOR (Kosovo Force). According to the draft, Estonia will continue to contribute to the NATO-led international peacekeeping mission in Kosovo in 2016 with up to three members of the Defence Forces, based on UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999. By participating in this mission, Estonia fulfils its allied responsibilities arising from NATO membership. The office of the active troops of the Estonian Defence Forces has been the headquarters of KFOR in Priština since 2010. Kosovo's stability is important for the security of both the Western Balkans and Europe as a whole. The aim of international forces and Estonia is to support the government of Kosovo in ensuring security and stability in the country. At its meeting on 7 December 2015, the National Defence Committee decided to consensually propose that the Riigikogu conclude the second reading of the draft, put the draft to the final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U356	Thank you. Good colleagues, do you have any questions? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. No amendments were tabled to draft 132. The commission has proposed that the draft be put to a final vote at second reading. I will put a draft 132 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 76 members of the Riigikogu, there are no respondents or abstentions. The extension of the term for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on a peace-building mission in Kosovo, has been adopted as a decision. The 15th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U357	Let's move on to item 16. The second reading of the Bill 133 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med' begins. Please ask Johannes Kerdi, Member of the National Defence Committee, to the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U358	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! On draft 133, I have the following to say at second reading. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 7 December and unanimously approved the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. Mr Vosman, the representative of the Ministry of Defence, also attended this meeting. No amendments were tabled on the draft by the deadline of 2 December. The amendments made to points 1 and 2 of the draft act are linguistic, i.e. errors in writing were corrected, but the content of the points did not change. At its meeting on 7 December, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose that the second reading of the draft be terminated. Based on § 109 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, the Commission decided to propose a final vote on the draft and to adopt the draft as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U359	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The proposal of the National Defence Committee is to put the draft to the final vote 133. I am voting on the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med' draft 133. Please take a stand and vote. 74 members of the population were in favour of adopting the draft 133 as a decision, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Draft 133 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U360	The second reading of Bill 134 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali' begins. Commission waitress Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U361	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! For the 134th draft, I have the following to report. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 7 December and unanimously approved the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. Mr Vosman, the representative of the Ministry of Defence, also attended this meeting. The meeting of the National Defence Commission on 8 December was held at the General Staff of the Defence Forces. We have received an overview of what is happening on international missions, including the activities of the Estonian Defence Forces, including the Republic of Mali, and the activities of the Estonian contingent in the Republic of Mali. No amendments were tabled on the draft by the deadline of 2 December. The amendments made to the preamble and point 4 of the draft act are linguistic, i.e. errors of writing were corrected, but the content of the points did not change. At its meeting on 7 December, the National Defence Committee decided unanimously to propose that the second reading of the draft be terminated. Based on § 109 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, the Commission decided to propose a final vote on the draft and to adopt the draft as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U362	Questions for the waitress. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U363	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, How many soldiers do we have there now, and will that number increase next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U364	There are currently nine Defence Forces and ten UN missions on the European Union mission. Next year, the number of members of the Defence Forces will increase by two on the European Union mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U365	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U366	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good waitress! The number of participants in the mission will increase by two. Where exactly and for what reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U367	This figure is increasing in the capital of the Republic of Mali, where the mission headquarters are located. The reason for this increase is that France has asked the Member States of the European Union to contribute more in order to release French military personnel for other operations, both in France and for possible operations in the Middle East. Unfortunately, Estonia has no greater capacity at the moment; we are only betting with two officers. France has also assessed this. It is such a political declaration of will.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U368	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U369	Thank you, good waitress, for your answer. When the Commission discussed the support of our ally, France, by sending two officers to Mali, was there a debate on how the great state of France would be able, if necessary, to assist its allies in Europe, when they have problems with Mali alone, where they have to take troops out to other crisis zones, as well as back to France, where there is a special situation for certain reasons? Has the Commission discussed how to assess France's ability to help its allies in Europe, if necessary, on the basis of current activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U370	This issue was not addressed in the Committee on National Defence. But I can assure you that instead of the French, there will be a massive bundesveer mission entering the Republic of Mali, about 600 people, and basically the Germans will replace the French. However, the French army has shown itself to be quite capable, and when the number of foreign missions decreases, its home affairs should be taken care of, and it should continue elsewhere. Thanks to Estonia's participation in Mali's mission and support to the French last year, the French have contributed with their participation to the NATO Cyber Defence Centre in Tallinn, which is perhaps one of the most representative NATO projects in Estonia. Britain immediately imitated the example of France. In fact, Estonia has benefited quite a lot from this mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U371	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U372	Thank you. Is this an increase in the limit of the mandate, or is the mission currently simply underbuilt?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U373	Thank you. This is a transfer of people within the mandate limit.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U374	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The proposal of the National Defence Committee is to put the draft to a final vote of 134. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali' draft 134. Please take a stand and vote. There were 68 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft as 134 decisions, no one opposed and 6 abstentions. The Riigikogu's decision 'The extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali' has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U375	The second reading of the draft 135 begins the second reading of the decision of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the implementation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or other international military operation led by the United Nations'. The Commission's rapporteur is Ants Laaneots. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U376	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed this draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 7 December. A representative of the Ministry of Defence also attended this meeting. One amendment to the draft was tabled by the deadline for the submission of amendments, 2 December, but it did not meet the requirements of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, because it did not have the signature of the proposer. A proper digitally signed amendment was tabled by Eerik-Niles Kross, the author of the proposal, after the deadline for the submission of the amendments had expired. Nevertheless, the Committee on National Defence discussed the proposal in substance, but decided not to support it and therefore not to propose it as an amendment. The amendments made to points 1 and 2 of the draft act are linguistic, i.e. they only changed the order of the words in the sentences; the content of the points did not change. In addition, § 34 of the National Defence Act, which is the basis for the draft 135, was discussed by the National Defence Committee. The Commission found that this regulation is too limited the competence of the Riigikogu to decide whether to send the Defence Forces to international military operations. According to this section, only the Minister of Defence decides to send, coordinating the decision with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and giving information on it to the National Defence Commission. Not only the Riigikogu, but even the government, has been excluded from this process. The Commission is not satisfied with a situation in which the Riigikogu cannot prevent the sending of active troops to an operation if necessary, as the Minister has, as I have already said, an obligation under the National Defence Act to ask for the opinion of the National Defence Committee, but there is no obligation to take this opinion into account. The Commission therefore decided that § 34 (5) of the National Defence Act should be amended so that the opinion of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu on the start of participation in a particular operation is binding on the Minister. This means that if the National Defence Commission does not support a specific operation, the Minister of Defence is not entitled to send active military personnel to the operation. The Commission also decided that the second reading of the 135 draft Decision should be discontinued. Thus, at its meeting on 7 December, the Committee on National Defence decided by consensus to propose that the second reading of the draft be suspended and that the deadline for the submission of amendments be set at the end of the working day of 23 December. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U377	Questions for the waitress. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U378	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about sending 50 soldiers, and the mission may be initiated either by the European Union, the UN or NATO, or by a Member State of the European Union or NATO, or almost the whole world. Do we know where these 50 soldiers are sent, when they are sent, what to do, what mandate, what are their military tasks?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U379	Thank you for your question. Of course, we don't know that right now. All we know is that the French State has asked the Member States of the European Union, the partner countries, to replace their units in secondary locations, such as Mali, so that France can concentrate its forces and direct its forces to solve the main security problem, probably then fight ISIS.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U380	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U381	Thank you. If we know that this is a French wish to receive assistance for one of our missions, would it not be more reasonable to wait until this mission becomes concrete and then to provide support for this particular mission? We are now talking about a bill of lading, practically the sole decision of the Minister of Defence to send 50 Estonian soldiers when it is necessary, where it is necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U382	I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that we found problems in the new National Defence Act, which will enter into force on 1 January, in regulating governance and decision-making. We are now focusing on improving those places that we think are either unclear or inappropriate. In deciding where to go, the Riigikogu must still have a heavy end. That is why we are proposing to interrupt the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U383	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U384	Thank you. Let me get this straight. The bill won't go any further until the amendment to the National Defence Act has been implemented and adopted here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U385	Since there are only a few days left until the end of the year, I am afraid that we will not be able to resolve anything once and for all this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U386	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U387	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal now to take down this bill of lading is, in my opinion, excellent. But is this Syrian option still basically on the table?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U388	Thank you. I'm just coming from Washington, U.S.A. The day before yesterday, the President of the United States gave a programmatic speech. He confirmed that the United States would under no circumstances enter the coalition with Russia. If the United States does not enter the coalition with Russia, then that means that NATO, let alone the European Union, will probably not have any coalition with Russia. If we resolve this issue legally and take this decision either in January or sometime later, I do not have the fear that this could mean sending a unit to Syria.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U389	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U390	Good Chairman! Good waitress! You said that amendments needed to be made to draft 135. But I did not understand whether Article 34 of the National Defence Act would be dealt with first and only then will amendments be tabled. How's that line?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U391	Thank you very much for your question. You must have listened badly. The content of my report was that we must first review § 34 of the National Defence Act, correct it, specify it, put management relationships in place and only afterwards can we begin to resolve other issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U392	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U393	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I will continue with the previous question. If, in your experience, you decide and look at today's world map, where do you think those 50 boys could go when Syria falls out?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U394	I'm not an oracle or a psychic, I can't say. But once again, I stress that we have been formally approached by one of our friends of the European Union, the great state of France. I consider it most likely that we will support them and not act in Syria.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U395	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U396	Thank you very much. Honourable speaker! You've told me there's a lot to do and a lot to change. The law will apply after 1 January. Is the deadline for tabling amendments, which is 23 December, not too early in view of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U397	At least we're hoping to make it by then. I mean the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U398	No further questions. Thank you, Ants Laaneots! I'm opening negotiations. There are no requests to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to interrupt the second reading of draft 135. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 1 p.m. on 23 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U399	The second reading of Bill 136 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan' begins. The Commission's waitress is Marianne Mikko. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U400	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft under discussion was completed on 18 November. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on Monday, 7 December. The draft is also related to the National Defence Commission's departure session at the Defence Forces General Staff on Tuesday, 8 December. We have received an overview of what is happening in areas where international missions are taking place with the participation of the Estonian Defence Forces, and of the preparations of the Defence Forces' active troops to continue participating in the RSM (Resolution Support Mission), a training and advisory mission led by NATO. The deadline for submitting amendments was 2 December at 5.15 p.m. outside the Committee on National Defence. The only amendment was tabled by the National Defence Committee as the lead committee. This is an amendment to point 1 of the draft. In fact, until the end of this year, the Riigikogu's decision of 11 December 2014 to participate in RSM confers a mandate on up to 25 active troops of the Estonian Defence Forces, in this draft Riigikogu's decision extending the aforementioned 2014 Riigikogu's decision, the mandate is given to up to six active troops. The National Defence Committee therefore considered it necessary to specify in the draft decision of the Riigikogu that if the mission in Afghanistan was extended, the number of active troops would be reduced to six. The National Defence Committee also made one linguistic amendment to point 2 by changing the year and date location in the date phrase. This correction is consistent with the layout of the dates and annual numbers set out in point 1 of the draft and complies with the requirements of the standard techniques. The continuation of RSM and support for Afghanistan are, of course, essential in order to maintain the progress achieved so far since 2001. By participating in this NATO mission, Estonia fulfils its obligations under NATO membership. I note this is a training and counselling mission. It is the task of the Deminators to train Afghan national security forces. Estonia is currently contributing to this with a four-member demining unit under the leadership of a framework country, Germany, in the North Afghanistan region. At its meeting on 7 December, the National Defence Committee unanimously approved the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. In addition, after examining the amendments, the Commission decided unanimously to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading of the draft. Based on § 109 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, we propose that the draft be put to the final vote and adopted as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U401	Thank you, Marianne Mikko! Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 136. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Government of the Republic to extend the term for the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan, draft 136. Please take a stand and vote. There were 68 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft decision as 136 decisions, no one opposed and one abstention. The decision of the Riigikogu "The extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on the training and counselling mission in Afghanistan' has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U402	The extension of the term for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon, begins with draft 137. You have Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, as a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U403	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before presenting it to today's second reading at its meeting on 7 December and unanimously approved the text of the second reading as well as the explanatory memorandum. No amendments were tabled on the draft by the deadline of 2 December. There have been changes to the draft. These are linguistic and the content of the draft has not been changed. At its meeting on 7 December, the National Defence Committee decided unanimously to propose that the second reading of the draft be terminated. Based on the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the Commission proposed to put the draft to the final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U404	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The proposal of the National Defence Committee is to put the draft to a final vote on 137. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon', presented by the Government of the Republic, draft 137. Please take a stand and vote. There were 63 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the bill as 137 decisions, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The decision of the Riigikogu "The extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the UN peacekeeping mission in Lebanon" has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U405	The second reading of the draft 138th reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria' is launched by the Government of the Republic. The Commission's waitress is Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U406	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft was completed on 18 November. The deadline for tabling amendments was 2 December. No amendments were received. In the run-up to second reading, the Commission discussed its views at its meeting on 7 December and unanimously approved the second reading text and the explanatory memorandum. At its meeting, the Commission made one linguistic amendment to point 2: the phrase '1. On 1 January 2016' was replaced by "on 1 January 2016'. The correction shall be compatible with the wording used in paragraph 1 of the draft and shall comply with the requirements of the norm. The draft is also related to the National Defence Commission's departure session at the Defence Forces General Staff on 8 December. There we received an overview of what is happening in the areas where international missions with the participation of the Estonian Defence Forces are taking place and preparations for the continuation of the UNTSO mission. The UNTSO for Military Observation Mission is based on UN Security Council Resolution No 50 of 1948. Estonian Defence Forces have been participating in the mission as observers and staff officers since 1997. Next year, Estonian Defence Forces will be staffing staff officers and senior staff officers on a UNTSO mission. The mission is a purely UN so-called 'blue helmet observation mission'. In this way Estonia will contribute to achieving and maintaining peace in crisis areas. At the meeting of 11 November, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus that when the first reading of the draft was completed, the draft would be sent to the Riigikogu plenary for a second reading by 9 December, i.e. today. At the meeting on 7 December, the National Defence Committee decided to consensually propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading of the draft, to put the draft to the final vote and to adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U407	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Mart Helme! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The decision of the commission is to put the draft to a final vote of 138. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Government of the Republic to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria, draft 138. Please take a stand and vote. There were 59 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the bill as 138 decisions, no respondents or abstentions. The Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria' has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U408	The second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'According to the State's summary report for the financial year 2014' begins. The Commission's rapporteur is Mr Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U409	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, No amendments were received on 4 November at 4 a.m. on the draft. The consensual proposal of the Committee on Monetary Affairs is to close the second reading and put the draft to the final vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U410	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. Nobody wants to talk. The Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic to approve the State's summary report for the financial year 2014 85. Please take a stand and vote. There were 53 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft as 85 decisions, no one opposed and 5 abstentions. The Riigikogu's decision to approve the State's summary report for the financial year 2014 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U411	The second reading of the draft law amending the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Commission waitress Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U412	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the draft Law amending the Water Act 82 is to update the provisions on fertilisation contained in the Water Act in such a way as to ensure the best protection of the aquatic environment. In addition, the draft aims to resolve the problems underlying the infringement procedure of the European Commission. The Government of the Republic initiated this draft on 14 September 2015. The first reading was completed on 14 October 2015. The deadline was 16 amendments to the draft, four of which were identical and merged. In addition, four proposals were submitted by the Committee on the Environment. Between two readings, the Commission discussed the draft 82 at its meeting on 10 November and 23 November. At the meeting on 10 November, representatives of the Estonian Farmers' Confederation, the Järvamaa Farmers' Association, OÜ Kehtna Mõis and the Estonian Farmers' Confederation and members of the Riigikogu Martin Repinski and Artur Talvik presented their views to the members of the committee. Representatives of the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Rural Affairs took part in the meeting on 23 November, explaining the positions of the ministries on the draft amendments. At first reading, I said right here on the remote that many problems and questions have already been resolved in the Riigikogu before the draft was processed. Differences were then left on the dates of application of manure and fertiliser to the field, as well as on the maximum permitted levels for fertilisers. There was no solution to the problem of grazing animals on the shores of inland waters. The dates shall be the subject of a satisfactory amendment to the third and fifth Commission amendments. According to the Commission's amendments, the ban on the spreading of mineral nitrogen fertilisers and liquid manure from 15 October to 12 March will be replaced by a ban from 1 November to 20 March. At the same time, the Environmental Board is left with the right and the possibility to assess the weather conditions and, if necessary, to decide to terminate the fertilisation work on 15 October. The amendment reduces the administrative burden and allows farmers to organise their work more flexibly. A number of amendments proposed changes to the limit values for nitrogen and phosphorus. The representatives of the Ministry of the Environment once again explained in the Commission what is the idea of the limit values proposed in the draft, why they are implemented and why the Ministry does not support these amendments. The Ministry of the Environment has commissioned an analysis to explain the effects of animal grazing on the shores of inland waters. After this work has been completed, discussions will continue. The representatives of the Ministry have already promised to be back in the Commission in the first quarter of next year, and then the Commission can go to the decisions. In addition to the above issues, the amendments addressed concerns in particular as regards the manure treatment of small producers. The Commission unanimously considered that most of the proposals could not be supported, but one of the Commission's amendments addresses and solves this problem. One amendment could not be dealt with because it was identical to the current law, i.e. it was not clear what the point of this amendment was. After an in-depth discussion, the Commission voted through all the amendments. All the votes were consensual. The Commission then took procedural decisions. Let us be clear that all these votes were also consensual. First of all, we propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the 82 Riigikogu by 9 December 2015. Secondly, we propose that the second reading of the draft 82 be stopped. Thirdly, when the second reading of the draft is completed today, we have a proposal to put the draft 82 on the Riigikogu agenda for the third reading by 16 December. Fourthly, we propose that the draft be put to the final vote on 82. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U413	Questions for the waitress. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U414	Good President! Good waitress! When I went to make amendments, it was promised that a scientific study would be carried out on deep litter manure. Was this research done before these decisions were made? The other part of the question is a little personal. Were you also against storing deep litter manure by the table because your neighbor, who has a barn on the hill, pollutes the lake on which you live?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U415	Thank you. As far as I know, the analysis you're referring to has not been carried out. I don't remember, and the protocol doesn't make it clear that it's allowed. However, one amendment tabled by the Commission does deal with deep storage. We made the wording a little clearer. Even before, it has not been assumed that those with this manure, deep down, could fit in the barn, would have to make a separate storage facility somewhere else.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U416	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U417	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, When we discussed these amendments in the Commission, we heard several times when the representatives of the ministries, for example, said that this law still needs to be analysed and some amendments could even be adopted, but simply there has not been enough time, there needs to be further study and analysis, and this law is not final, it will be amended in the future anyway. Is it reasonable to adopt laws that have not been analysed to the end? Maybe we should wait a little while, finish the job properly and then pass the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U418	Thank you. As I pointed out at the beginning, this draft is also due to one of the infringement procedures currently in place. We can resolve many things with this draft and hopefully this infringement procedure that has been initiated against Estonia will be closed. However, you are right that the Water Act will continue to be dealt with. As far as grazing on the shores of inland waters is concerned, there is indeed an analysis of this. The representatives of the Ministry have promised that it should be completed by the end of the year, perhaps immediately, and already in the first quarter of next year they will be back on the Commission, where they will be able to introduce it. Then you can go on and decide what to do with the grazing of animals on the shores of inland waters.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U419	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U420	Thank you, President-in-Office. Waitress, I have a very specific question. Was this point of grazing along inland waters not at all addressed at all and will it be dealt with separately after this scientific study has been completed, or did it in any way remain in the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U421	Thank you for your question. You've got it right. This amendment was not unanimously supported by the Commission, and this point will come back to the Commission once the results of the analysis are clear and we can take a decision on the basis of these results. It should be added, however, that under the current law, there should be no grazing on the shores of inland waters or on the sea coast. With the bill, grazing on the seashore becomes legal, you could say that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U422	Thank you, Meelis Mälberg! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Siret Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U423	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are talking about the Water Act, which aims to protect groundwater very noblely. I think that there is no one in this Chamber who does not wish to preserve our aquatic environment, but it is farmers who have been crucial to the development of the Estonian economy throughout history. Agriculture has still given our people jobs and bread. Farmers have preserved and protected Maryland and have stood up for the integrity of our environment. Now, in the context of the Water Act, a farmer is treated as a source of water pollution because animals make manure. The Water Act under discussion limits the storage of manure in fields, shortens both the storage period in the autumn and the amount of manure applied. However, if we look at the Fertilisation ABC issued at the Centre for Agricultural Research, we can see that very many crops would need more phosphorus and nitrogen, or they would need much more organic fertiliser than the current water law allows. If you look at soil samples from different farms, you can see how more is taken from the soil year after year than is returned. For successful crop cultivation, however, the soil must be returned as much as it has been taken from it. Our farmers want to produce as much as other European farmers and be competitive, so it is unwise to restrict the possibilities of those farmers who want and can produce by water law. It is incomprehensible that if a farmer needs more fertilizer in his field, he should not use the manure in the barn but go to the store and buy more mineral fertiliser. Why are we going this way to prefer expensive artificial fertilisers to natural fertilisers? It doesn't make any sense. It should also not be forgotten that solid manure and liquid manure, or slurry, are absolutely different things and have radically different effects on the environment. They must therefore also be treated differently. For example, it is incomprehensible why a organic producer whose animals live on deep litter, which is exchanged once every eight months, has to build a manure storage facility. In eight months, all the necessary natural processes will take place, resulting in willow manure not being more dangerous to nature than a pile of leaf in our gardens. The Estonian climate has been very volatile in recent years. In some years, snow may already be on the ground in December, but today it is rain instead. The standards in water law should also be much more flexible in order to create a better balance between our environment and agriculture. Finally, I would like to say that, yes, significant improvements have been made in the Water Act compared to what was discussed in the spring, but there are still a number of important points that I spoke about earlier and which should be clarified. Farmers' umbrella organisations have expressed concerns about the speedy adoption of the Water Act. Therefore, I say to you: we take time off and make a proper law. The Centre Party Group proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Water Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U424	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U425	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Today I want to tell you about the different forms of manure. I want to tell you about the slurry, I want to talk about the dump, the willow dung and the deep litter dung. It is deep litter manure that I want to tell you most about, because it is one of the very traditional and very characteristic ways of storing manure in Estonian agriculture. But now we have a bill for water, which says that this very traditional way of storing manure is dangerous. We know from history that during Estonia, there were at least three times as many domestic animals or animals making manure as today, and then all manure was stored in deep litter manure or technology, as officials say. Somehow, the bodies of water didn't grow up, but today, if we use artificial fertilizer, they grow up, but we're gonna regulate how to handle deep litter dung. We're actually making another stupid mistake with the chances of smaller and medium-sized animal keepers, making their lives harder. I have a call for you, ladies and gentlemen. Thinking deeply about manure technology, this traditional technology, and that it is now wanted to be severely restricted, let us vote in favour of stopping reading the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U426	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U427	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable hall! I want to support Artur Talvik and say something that may be a surprise to many. I, too, have been an active farmer in my earlier life, and I can assure you that manure is an extremely valuable, necessary and prospective source of fertiliser today. In the last 25 years, we have become more and more of a people who think that milk can be obtained from the store and bread can also be obtained from the store, and if we do not have it, Europe will. It should not be assumed that everything that comes from Europe is good. This applies to a number of directives. This also applies to the fact that in a densely populated Western Europe there may be an idea that yes, indeed, manure is a terrible suspicious thing, it pollutes the waters and bodies of groundwater that we are exhausting. Estonia is very sparsely populated. Estonian agriculture is basically only waste, which is left over from the big farming that was here 25 to 30 years ago. We do not need to follow up on something that is being done somewhere in Germany, or even more, in the Netherlands, where you can't throw a stone, because some greenhouses are about to get hurt. We have a slightly different situation. Let's loosen up! Let us not rush into adopting a law that is still under examination. Well, let's find out first, and then we'll just pass the law. Our group supports the withdrawal of the reading of this draft in order to come back to the draft when the studies are completed. Finally, a story my father loved to tell. During spring field work, the Estonian peasant spreads manure and along the road comes the procession of Orthodox believers, praying to God for a good harvest. Mats looks at this procession and says, "God is good, but shit is better. '
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U428	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U429	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Looking at what has now opened in this Chamber, it seems that it is true that in three areas all Estonian people are specialists. These areas include architecture, medicine and manure management. Listening to the previous speeches, I realized that there is a great urge and a desire to make a humor, but actually, you could talk about the facts in this Chamber, even if it is about manure in any form, whether it is slurry or deep-sea manure. A year ago, the Ministry of Rural Affairs had 46 complaints and corrections in the context of this law. Everyone who has contributed substantially to the Commission's work knows that compromise was reached on all points. The Commission itself supported all the proposals in a consensual manner, with no votes against. Secondly, the claim that you have to build a dung store next to a table is simply wrong. Amendment 10 states very clearly: 'In the animal housing building where it is used (Now comes Artur Talvik's favourite word. (v) deep litter technology and which can accommodate the [eight months] amount of manure referred to in subsection 2 of this section need not be a manure storage facility. ' This point was made unambiguously clear by the Commission. Since we felt that this point in the past gave us different ideas, we made it out of wood and red: we don't have to be a dung depot when eight months of manure fits into the barn. A simple, peasantic and understandable approach. As far as grazing by water is concerned, I would remind everyone who is about to press the button that, at present, grazing by all water bodies, whether by sea, lake or river, is actually prohibited, is only permitted in nature reserves. As there is indeed no final study of inland waters, we are going to oppose 50% of farmers with the draft and allow them to herd by the sea. If we didn't do it, we wouldn't have done it. When we met with the farmers' representatives, we agreed to take half a step, we do not fully recognise this point from the law. It was also an option, not to address this issue at all. It was decided by consensus that it would be reasonable to resolve this, to go on with it in any case and to return to inland waterways in the new year. So I dare tell everyone who cares about Estonian agriculture and clean water that they can boldly support this bill. In addition, I say that the Water Act also states that if there are more than 50 inhabitants in one place, you need sanitation and central water purification. The same applies to animal husbandry. If there is a concentration that requires meaningful action, then this must be done and manure reservoirs built. But if eight months of manure can fit into the barn, then the strength for all farmers to carry this manure straight from the barn to the field! Good luck and strength to all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U430	There is no further wish for negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. We need to review the amendments, which total 16 amendments. The first has been submitted by Artur Talvik, the Commission has disregarded. The second has been submitted by Martin Repinski; the Commission has failed to take account of this. The third has been submitted by the Committee on the Environment, fully taken into account. The fourth is the same from the Committee on the Environment, fully taken into account. The fifth is from the Committee on the Environment, fully taken into account. The sixth is from the Centre Party faction, which has not been taken into account. The seventh has been presented by Artur Talvik, dismissed. The eighth has been presented by Martin Repinski, which has not been taken into account. The ninth is presented by Artur Talvik, dismissed. The 10th is from the Committee on the Environment, fully accounted for. Amendment 11 has been tabled by Mr Talvik and Mr Repinski, without taking into account. Amendment 12 has been tabled by Mr Talvik and Mr Repinski, without taking into account. Amendment 13 has been tabled by Mr Talvik and Mr Repinski, without taking into account. Amendment 14 has been tabled by Mr Talvik and Mr Repinski, without taking into account. Amendment 15 has been tabled by Mr Repinski, without taking into account. Amendment 16 has been tabled by Mr Talvik, without taking into account. The amendments have been examined. The Commission's decision is to close the second reading of the draft 82. The Centre Party Group has proposed to interrupt the second reading of this draft. That's what we're voting on. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Water Act 82. Please take a stand and vote. There were 28 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 45 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Second reading of Bill 82 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U431	The second reading of the draft law amending the law on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from a Member State of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The Commission's waitress is Mihkel Raud. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U432	Mr. Speaker! Dear colleagues! The Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the law on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from a Member State of the European Union 117 at its meeting on 26 October 2015. The Bill transposes into Estonian law the directive on better protection of the European Union's cultural goods. The amendments strengthen administrative cooperation between the central authorities of the Member States and introduce an internal market information system, as well as an extension of the deadline for the submission of a recovery claim against the owner or holder of a cultural object. The payment of compensation to the owner or holder of a cultural object shall be linked to proof of due diligence. The amendments extend the concept of cultural value. The regulation concerns the return of a cultural object in a situation where a cultural object is discovered on the territory of a Member State, the transfer of which requires authorisation, but which has not been granted. The first reading of the draft law was likely to take place on 10 November. a and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 16 a.m. on 20 November. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees. The Committee on Culture discussed the preparation for the second reading at its meeting on 24 November. The first reading of the draft and preparation of the draft had, in the view of the Members of the Commission, been sufficiently thorough and therefore the Commission did not wish to reopen the debate. On 24 November the Committee on Culture decided to send the draft to the Riigikogu for second reading by 9 December with a proposal to conclude the second reading. The decisions were swift and consensual. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U433	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. On a proposal from the Commission, the second reading of draft 117 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U434	The second reading of Draft Act 119 on the amendment of the Guarantee Fund Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. Commission waitress Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U435	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft initiated by the Government of the Republic on 26 October 2015 took place in this Chamber on 18 November. The purpose of the Guarantee Fund Act and the related amendment of other laws is, I will say briefly, to improve the confidence of depositors by increasing the level of protection for deposits in the event of a potential insolvency of banks. In short, I am talking about what this bill regulates. The deposit will continue to be secured with interest up to EUR 100000 for each depositor in one bank. This principle does not change. However, as an update, the money received by a natural person from the sale of real estate will be secured up to an additional EUR 50000 within six months of the receipt of the money for the purchase and sale transaction. The concept of deposit is clarified so that it is clear which deposits must be guaranteed and which are not. In the event of the insolvency of a credit institution, the deadline for the payment of compensation to depositors shall be reduced from 20 working days to 7 working days. The number of persons whose deposits must be guaranteed shall be specified. The funding of the Deposit Guarantee Sectoral Fund, i.e. the payment of the instalment by the banks, is made conditional on banks being exposed to risk. The form and format of the deposit guarantee information to be provided to depositors shall be specified. The cooperation of the Guarantee Fund with deposit guarantee schemes in other countries is also regulated. After the first reading, the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the draft at its meeting on 26 November and 8 December. The deadline for submitting amendments, which was on 2 December, was one proposal received from the Riigikogu, and the Commission made three amendments by consensus on the proposal of the Ministry of Finance, which were developed in cooperation with market participants, the Financial Supervision Authority and Eesti Pank. Amendment 1 was tabled by the speaker. Its content is to raise the maximum level of guarantee provided to a natural person for the sale of real estate from EUR 50000 to EUR 70000. The initiator's representative supported this proposal and the Commission took the proposal into account in a consensual manner. Amendment 2 clarifies the implementing act provider to the procedures for determining the compensation of the Guarantee Fund. On a proposal from Eesti Pank, the Ministry of Finance will give this act if necessary, and no longer the Governor of Eesti Pank. Amendment 3 specifies in the Act on the Prevention and Resolution of the Financial Crisis the procedure for completing derivative transactions in a situation where the bank is in difficulty. Amendment 4 concerns the entry into force standard. If the law as a whole enters into force as a general rule, 10 days after publication in the Official Journal of the State, the amendment shall give effect to one provision as soon as possible, i.e. on the day following publication. This provision concerns the obligation to pay supervisory fees for creditors and credit intermediaries. Its earlier enforcement will avoid confusion in setting fees at the end of this year and at the beginning of the coming year. During the preparatory debate on the second reading of the draft proposal on 26 November, a procedural decision was taken on the second reading period and, at the meeting on 8 December, the debate was limited to dealing with the amendments. With regard to the first amendment, the Commission was interested in assessing the costs and risks involved in securing the additional amount of the proceeds from the sale of real estate. The answer was that it was difficult to assess the exact situation. It is necessary to look at the likelihood of bankruptcies, the number of cases where the proceeds from the sale over a period of six months exceed EUR 100000 already secured. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that at first their proposal was to ensure that the amount received by the natural person for the real estate was greater than the amount of EUR 50000 contained in the draft. They said that even EUR 150,000 was under consideration, but they still stayed with 50000 in the draft. For information, this threshold is EUR 100000 in Finland. When discussing Amendment 3, there was an interest in practice in other countries. As is known, the Directive allows for the completion of derivative transactions involving a bank in resolution proceedings in two ways. First of all, the administration, we have the Financial Supervision Authority on the basis of every decision. Secondly, the automatic completion of delimited transactions is permitted. In most cases, Member States have chosen option 2, but we have option 1 in the draft, because it is not possible to predict the outcome of the transaction, which depends on the decision of the Financial Supervision Authority, so this unpredictable factor will negatively affect the decisions of foreign investors whether to make such transactions in Estonia. This amendment selects scheme 2 or scheme B, where certain derivative transactions will in any case be completed. The Commission's proposal was to put the draft on the agenda by 9 December. We propose that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is completed by 16 December. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U436	Questions for the waitress. Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U437	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable waitress! Could you repeat with two sentences how this law will benefit me as a common citizen?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U438	The first such thing is the innovation that the deposit guarantee system does not currently foresee. For example, if you sell your housing and the money goes to the bank, but the bank goes bankrupt, you can now lose money because only deposits are guaranteed. According to the draft, the proceeds from the sale of real estate will also be secured to the extent of EUR 50000 and, according to the amendment, EUR 70000. But there's still a lot of things to do. The concept of deposit is specified. It is also important to have time since the announcement of the insolvency or bankruptcy of the credit institution. Under the current regime, the deposit will be reimbursed within 20 working days, but if this law enters into force, it will take place within seven working days. It is also very important that the draft sets out the form and form in which the bank must start to provide information on deposit guarantee to the customer. There are no such requirements at the moment. Of course, there are many, many other things here that are necessary to ensure that deposits are guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U439	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U440	Thank you. My question is about the money you get for housing. Has there been any research? How did you come up with that? Apartments and houses are usually more expensive, and a person can still trim. The price of one apartment could still be the amount that does not go missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U441	That is a very relevant question. That is why I have tabled this amendment, which I believe will also cover the price of an average apartment of EUR 50000. Eesti Pank's own statistics for 2014 are such that the average sales transaction of the apartment is 59000 euros. That is where it was proposed to increase this amount to EUR 70000. I've analyzed the situation a little bit more widely. For example, in Finland this threshold is EUR 100000. Finnish real estate prices are also slightly higher. In short, the amount of the guarantee could indeed be slightly higher than the price of the average apartment, so that it would also provide protection for those who have sold the house.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-09_U442	Thank you, Aivar Sõerd! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Four amendments to the draft 119 have been tabled. The first submitted by Aivar Sõerd, which has been fully taken into account. The second proposal is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, fully taken into account. The third is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, fully taken into account. The fourth has also been taken fully into account by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The second reading of Bill 119 is complete. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 8:18 p.m.
