ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the seventh working week of the first plenary session. Who has to hand over drafts or inquiries? On behalf of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson has already asked for the floor. Please, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching six draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of State Administration Arto Aas when the bill is being processed. Secondly, the draft law on consumer protection. Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Protection Margus Tsahkna when the bill is being processed. Fourthly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the European Space Agency on the Accession of Estonia to the Convention establishing a European Space Agency. Urve Palo, Minister of Enterprise, represents the Government of the Republic in the Riigikogu when processing the above bill. Fifthly, the draft law amending labour market services and benefits and other laws. Sixth, the draft law amending the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Sven Sester in the proceedings of the above two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U3	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U4	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I present to you the inquiry that I and many other members of the Central Party Group will present to the Minister of Education and Science, Jürgen Ligi. We are interested in how the Minister for Education and Research intends to value the work of kindergarten teachers. If we recall the discussions held here in the Riigikogu, we know that the work of kindergarten teachers has also been their subject, but unfortunately it has not finished. The situation is now that the average pay for kindergarten teachers varies from EUR 580 to just over EUR 600. And that's the payoff. The problem with kindergarten teachers is also that, if the positive side of schoolteachers' work is their long summer leave, the annual leave is 56 calendar days, then the school teacher's leave is only 42 days. Years ago, a kindergarten teacher was granted the same status as a schoolteacher. This is where we ask what are the plans of the Government of the Republic with kindergarten teachers. Is it also planned to fix minimum wage levels? What are these, and what steps could be taken? Let me remind you that the teacher's minimum wage is already 900 euros. The issue of equalising leave is also important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U5	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U6	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission initiates a draft law amending the Local Government Council Election Act. The initiation of the bill is due to the fact that we changed the constitution by lowering the elections in local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U7	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a draft law amending the Ground and Environmental Charges Act, initiated by Deniss Borodich, Andres Metsoja, Valeri Korb, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Einar Vallbaum, Mati Raidma and Kalvi Tõik. In the Groundbreaking Act, the volume of oil shale mining is regulated by the annual mining rate. The annual mining rate for oil shale is 20 million tonnes according to the current law. However, the calculation of the maximum rate is not flexible and will hinder the development of the sector. The regulation proposed in this draft allows companies to mine oil shale stock below the annual mining rate since 2009. The amendments to the Environmental Charges Act are intended to ensure that companies are also motivated by environmental charges to predict their mining activities as accurately as possible and not to seek quantities of oil shale that are not actually extracted. This draft has a very positive economic and social impact. The situation in the oil shale sector depends very much on external factors such as the exchange price of electricity and the price of oil. It is therefore important for the sector to be able to react quickly and easily to the effects of the external environment. The regulation created by the draft act provides an opportunity to increase the mining rate in an operational manner if factors in the external environment are favourable, without affecting the environment to an acceptable extent. The share of the oil shale sector in the country's GDP is around 2.9%, indicating that it is of public economic importance. The economic development and social welfare of Ida-Viru County also depend on the success of this sector. For example, about 450 jobs need to be created for the extraction and processing of one million tonnes of oil shale. The impact of oil shale mining and use on the local government's income base is also important. For example...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U9	Good ambassador Borodich, there is no need to discuss the full content of the bill. Now we should hand over the bill, the time has passed 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U10	Thank you. This is a very good bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U11	Thank you, my friend! Dear Riigikogu, I have adopted eight draft laws and one inquiry, and all of them are delivered on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 89 members of the Riigikogu are present, 12 are missing. Honourable Riigikogu, next we need to confirm this week's agenda. I shall vote on the adoption of this week's agenda. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of approving the agenda, no one is against and 1 member of the Riigikogu is impartial. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U12	The first item on our agenda today is the inquiry made by delegates Kersti Sarapuu, Kadri Simson, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velmanni, Lauri Laasi, Andrei Novikov, Dmitri Dmitrievi, Enn Esemaa, Tarmo Tamme, Olga Ivanova, Rein Ratas, Jüri Ratas, Martin Repinski, Erki Savisaare, Jaanus Kariladi, Priit Toobali, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korbi, Toomas Vitsuti, Mailis Repsi and March Sultsi. Kersti Sarapuu, member of the Riigikogu, takes the floor on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, we presented the Minister for Enterprise, Urve Palo, on 30 April. a request for information on the increase of VAT on accommodation services. In this inquiry, we talked about raising VAT on accommodation services from 9% to 20%, but the situation has now changed. The government wants to raise VAT by 5%, i.e. 14%. This, however, is neither a job win nor a relief for tourism companies, companies providing accommodation services. The associations representing the tourism sector sent a referral to the Ministry of Finance, where they note that despite the debate and the so-called political compromise found in the government, the proposed tax increase would not be accepted. The tourism sector has an important role to play in the Estonian economy, with indirect effects that nearly 7% of Estonia's gross domestic product comes from there. A good example: In 2013, nearly 6 million foreign tourists visited Estonia, who spent 1.35 billion euros on tourism services. The share of tourism services in exports of services was 29% in 2012 and their share in total exports was almost 10%. Indrek Neivelt has said that the accommodation service is largely export, although the Prime Minister pointed out in Question Time that the accommodation companies receive a VAT concession and that it does not matter whether it is a service or a good, the export still has zero VAT. Given the tourist accommodation area, we can say by proportions that fair value added tax would be 5%. This means that VAT should rather be reduced. According to Verni Loodmaa, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Hotels and Restaurant Association, the current increase will increase VAT in the accommodation sector by 50% and the government has not carried out an independent impact study. This increase in VAT is not only detrimental to the economic situation of companies providing accommodation services, but also to tourism-related services (shops, restaurants, museums, car rental etc.). A very large drop in the number of tourists is also driven by a reduction in transport connections, whether in bus, air or train traffic. The first three months of the year have resulted in an 11% reduction in visits to Finnish tourists and a 40% reduction in Russian tourists, further exacerbated by the end of train connections with Moscow and St Petersburg. Pärnumaa has brought out very serious figures. Raising VAT to 14% would result in a reduction of 9900 people, which would mean losing EUR 685000 for companies providing accommodation services and EUR 3.4 million for the whole region. According to the World Economic Forum, Estonia will be ranked 38th in the competition index table in 2014, but 30th in 2013 and 25th in 2011. The increase in the VAT rate is also not supported by EAS. According to them, the number of tourists would also decrease significantly and would not even be compensated by the large-scale one-off campaign abroad planned by the government. The timing of this rise in VAT is already very bad. Eesti Pank has declared the impact of the external environment, i.e. the recession in the economic life of neighbouring countries. And another very important argument is that the profit margin is value added tax (VAT) imposed on many economic companies, resulting in the exclusion of additional investments and wage increases, while at the same time giving the opportunity to conduct a black business. We have asked a number of questions in our inquiry, which we ask the Minister to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U14	The inquiry was submitted to Minister of Enterprise Urve Palo. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U15	Good afternoon. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to thank the Central Party Group for its appeal and for raising important questions. Since Kersti Sarapuu did a beautiful introduction, I'll take it from here right away and answer by question. In total, there are four questions and I will read them out to make it easier to follow. Question 1: 'How do you assess the impact of raising the VAT rate on the Estonian tourism sector? As Minister of Enterprise, do you consider such a step to be right? 'The tourism sector is indeed an important part of the Estonian economy, as Kersti Sarapuu has already said, and taxation issues are vital for the sector. When designing changes to the rates of accommodation, we must take into account that the Estonian tourism sector is not only competing with the Baltics but also with the whole of Europe. In most countries of the European Union, a reduced VAT rate has also been introduced for tourist accommodation institutions to improve the competitiveness of the tourism sector. Of the twenty-eight countries, only four countries do not take advantage of the possibility of introducing a different VAT rate for accommodation establishments than in general. These countries are Denmark, Great Britain, Slovakia and Hungary. The objective of the tax exemption is to support economic growth by increasing demand. After all, both foreign visitors and domestic tourists consume products and services other than accommodation. Given the proportion of foreign tourists in Estonia, it can indeed be said that the tourism sector is, yes, largely the export sector. It must also be said that Estonia will not have such great attractions in the near future. While we are working to get a large conference centre here, which is estimated to bring 20,000 more tourists a year, and to provide some EUR 20 million in additional income and 400 jobs, this is still in work, it is not coming tomorrow, and it will help first and foremost, at least initially, the Tallinn tourist. It is true, with the conference speaker, that once he has come here in the framework of the conference, the experience of other countries shows that often people come back with their family after that and then they move away from the capital. We must also consider that the price level is becoming evener, which in turn makes Estonia's competitiveness even worse. For example, while Estonia's overall price level currently accounts for 73% of the European Union average, for hotels and restaurants this figure is 78%, according to which Estonia is one of the countries with higher price levels among the new EU Member States. Only Cyprus, Slovenia and Malta are ahead. The impact of raising the VAT rate for accommodation services has been shown by the Estonian Conjuncture Institute in a study commissioned by EAS and the Estonian Association of Hotels and Restaurants in autumn. Although some attempts have been made to ridicule the results of the research carried out by the Estonian Conjuncture Institute, it is as if ordered by the sector. However, having examined both the results of the survey by the Estonian Conjuncture Institute and the experiences of countries where VAT has been raised and sometimes reduced again, I can say that the experiences of other countries confirm the results of the study by the Estonian Conjuncture Institute. In short, this study revealed the following important issues. Firstly, if the VAT exemption is to be completely abolished at present, from 9% to 20%, it will be a very unfavourable time. Of course, in order to know this, there is no need to carry out a survey, looking at the economic situation in Finland. The number of Finnish tourists has already fallen by 3% since the beginning of this year, while Finnish tourists represent a very important part of Estonian tourists. So any such change will have a negative impact on the Estonian tourism sector. In addition, the share of Russian tourists has halved in the first quarter of this year. The reason is the state of the Russian economy and the weakening of the rouble, the decline in purchasing power. The Conjuncture Institute has estimated that if the VAT exemption was abolished, the prices of accommodation services would increase by around 7% and the number of visitors could decrease by 6%. There is already a very strong pressure on price increases. The hotel sector is a sector where the share of manpower and wages is very high, but, as we know, there are generally low wages. Hotel companies say that it is precisely because of this wage pressure that it is very difficult to find and hold on to the workforce so that, if they were able to do so, they would raise wages already. But since your product can't be sold out at such a high price, the pressure stays, the wages don't rise as much as necessary. If prices were now to rise due to higher VAT, this would in any case worsen the competitive situation. More check. I said before that when a tourist comes to Estonia, he spends about 15% of his money on a hotel, the rest goes to everything else on transportation, food, museum tickets, etc. So it's very important to get him here, because most of the money he leaves in other sectors. On average, 191 euros will be spent on a multi-day trip to Estonia. If VAT were to rise to 20% and the number of tourists decreased by 6%, it is estimated that the entire country could lose EUR 34 million. The government was hoping to get over EUR 20 million a year by abolishing this one-off VAT distinction, but a simple adjustment shows that ultimately the economy and also the state budget would lose more. So it wouldn't have been a reasonable decision. From Estonia's point of view, it is also important to point out that, if you look at the 28 countries of the European Union, Estonia has almost 70%, 68% of all overnight visitors, and in the European Union the average is 45%. In other countries the share of domestic tourism is higher. Our people have less purchasing power, which is why this service is used less in their own country and the share of foreign tourists is higher. So we are also very, very sensitive to the prices in neighbouring countries. All in all, I would say that, as Minister for Enterprise, I did not consider the Government's intention to eliminate the VAT distinction from hotels, accommodation services. I think that this compromise, which has now been made and according to which there is a difference between VAT and VAT, is going to rise from the present 9% to 14%, i.e. 5%, 6% less than was originally planned, is a compromise that can be lived on. Better would have been 3%, the best would have been, of course, 0%, but also the representatives of the hotel and tourism sectors themselves said that if the increase was 3%, this could be done. I agree that 3% would have been better than 5%, but 5% is still less than 11%. That's right. The good thing is, at least, that the higher tax will apply from 2017, not next year. The hotel sector can adapt to the change and review its price lists because it is known that packages are sold at foreign fairs about a year in advance. So there's at least time. I am also pleased that, as we agreed in the government, the tourism sector will receive 2 million euros each year from 2017 to support the tourism sector outside Tallinn. So a total of 6 million, which is not at all small money, in old money 100 million kroons. As time is running out, I will be quick and brief in answering the following questions. More questions will probably be asked later, and then you can also answer. The second question: 'The increase in the VAT rate for accommodation services is expected to generate an additional revenue for the state budget in 2017, 22.9 million in 2018, 24.2 million in 2018 and 25.7 million in 2019. What reduction in the number of tourists has been taken into account in this forecast? ' Can I have more time? I can't. I will then reply by not taking into account the possible reduction in the number of tourists when drawing up the forecast of expected additional revenue from the increase in VAT on accommodation services. I don't think it's right in itself. Question 3: 'The Institute of Economics has estimated that if the VAT rate were increased, the prices of accommodation services would rise by 7% and the number of visitors would decrease by 6%, i.e. by almost 180000 people. Is there any analysis at the disposal of the government that would suggest that the impact of raising the VAT rate is not relevant to the tourism sector? ' Analysis, which would suggest that the impact of raising the VAT rate is not important for the tourism sector, is not at my disposal. And the last question: 'The fulfillment and profitability of housing establishments in smaller rural areas have been poor for years. How do you assess the impact of this step on tourism farms in rural areas? ' I would say that if this rate had been raised to 20%, it would certainly have led to an increase in the informal economy for smaller housing establishments in rural areas, and many smaller ones would have had to stop. Now that the increase is considerably lower, it is difficult to assess the situation. I very much hope that EAS is actively engaged in finding new markets so that new tourists from new countries come to Estonia. When we are talking about the disappearance of the Russian market and the decline of Finnish tourists, the EAS has accounted for more than 40 million euros in order to carry out marketing campaigns in new countries, such as Sweden, Germany and Norway, and from there to attract tourists to Estonia. In addition, the same EUR 6 million, which now goes directly to promote rural tourism. I very much hope that, along with these additional plus measures, this small price increase will ultimately not have a negative impact on rural areas. But life shows it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U16	There is no extra time for questioning and questioning, but the minister can tell you everything that's on his mind when answering a question, and there's no time limit here. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U17	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, with 5% higher VAT, it is the rural tourism companies that find it most difficult to survive. I have heard that they have proposed a compromise to divide this 5% increase into five years, to increase each year by 1%. Did you discuss this compromise proposal in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U18	We discussed this kind of proposal, but not to increase by 1%. The Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry proposed that VAT should rise by 2% a year from 2017, and this proposal was discussed at a very large round table in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, where there were represented, I would say, all associations in the tourism sector, hotels and other tourism sectors. They said this year-by-year rise was the worst for them. They must always sell their packages at foreign fairs in advance of the year, and if it is known that it will always be more expensive, they must say, look, the price of this year is like this, but next year it will be like this and the next year it will be like this. They said they wouldn't do it at all. I don't know which letters have come later, but I took the message as a basis when we discussed the possibility of linear lifting at the study session, and I said that the sector does not want a linear increase. The representatives of rural tourism were also present at the round table, but maybe later they have had other ideas, I cannot rule that out. At that time, the round table made it very clear that a linear way, as proposed by the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, is not suitable for them. Their message was that it would be better to have 3% at once.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U19	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U20	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, That's my question. First of all, I will immediately say that I am among those who today rather rejoice that this increase is not 11%. And, of course, I would have liked it to be 0, because it is one of the most important business sectors in Estonia that brings us anything at all, especially in the context of exports. At the moment these negotiations were held, you were in the status of minister, and, of course, it is always easier to take the right course of action than to rework things afterwards. What exactly was your position, and why were you not taken into consideration?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U21	You mean when?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U22	When there were coalition negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U23	During the coalition negotiations, I said very clearly that there is an analysis of the Institute of Economics, which shows these and the things I have just said, and that there should be no way of losing the distinction between VAT. I'm afraid I'm outnumbered. Given how fast the timetable was during the coalition negotiations and that, according to the agreement, a higher tax would apply from 2017, I really thought I would be able to explain with the help of Parliament even later. But two weeks later, this amendment is already being written into the law... Yeah, you could call it my naivety, but I really didn't think it would be done in a year. When I found out that this change was about to be made, I immediately said that friends, whoa-whoa-whoa, this isn't going to happen, let's start debating right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U24	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U25	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I'm trying to understand the politics of this government, but there's no way. Looks like your coalition partners don't know where they signed up and where that tax increase suddenly got written on paper. I'm just gonna ask you plain and simple. The number of eastern tourists has decreased, the number of Finnish tourists has decreased, and the government is raising the company's VAT by 5%. How does this affect the competitiveness of Estonian companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U26	I have, of course, talked about this at length, but, in short, I will say that it does not, of course, have a good impact on competitiveness. Consider an example. The former Liina Kersna asked from the point of view of rural tourism that there were particular problems. I agree with that. I recently spoke to the big entrepreneurs who have hotels here in Tallinn. Some said that if they had known in advance that the speciality of VAT would be abolished, then perhaps the hotel that is currently being built would not be built. It is very difficult to get investments in Estonia and it was one of the factors when the hotel was built. But he also said that in Tallinn we might still be able to manage, the question is in rural areas. I'm gonna do a simple piece of work now. The average hotel room in rural areas costs 32 euros. It's a statistical mean, it could definitely vary up and down. If we take that 5% is running out of VAT, we are actually talking about EUR 1.5, or EUR 32 will be EUR 33.5. Looking at it like this, it's not drastic, but I'm definitely not the one who says it's marginal and too small. The adjustment is very simple: if there is EUR 32 and 10% put to the end, then EUR 3 should be paid and, if 5% is added, EUR 1,5 will be added. [[The cavalry.]] I'm talking about the price of a hotel place for a client. In this context, whether it is EUR 32 or EUR 33.5, I would say that if it was one person, one family, then one and a half euros would probably not be missed. The problem is when tourism companies sell their packages on foreign fairs. I quite believe that every euro will play a role there. It's more of a spa thing, but I'm not underestimating it either. Of course, this change in the competition situation will not improve, but I hope that the 5% currently agreed, taking into account all the additional advantages and activities that the country has planned to attract tourists to Estonia, will not take away either.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U27	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U28	Mr President! Honorable Minister! The government plans to raise VAT on accommodation establishments as of 2017. Why, however, would you like to hurricane this so-called compromise now, say, with a roller to push through the Riigikogu, instead of looking at what will actually happen to the tourism sector this year and in the first half of next year? After all, there would also be time to order the unbiased in-depth studies that organisations whose members are directly affected by this tax increase have requested.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U29	Thank you. After all, research on this subject actually exists. Studies do not support the elimination of VAT distinctions. I am therefore glad that this distinction is not actually lost, although yes, it is somewhat decreasing. Well, there are several reasons why they want to agree now. One is that this amendment is also part of a package to cover the other expenditure items of the 2017 budget on the revenue side. On the other hand, it is also the reason that the sector must, as we have agreed, know tax changes at least six months in advance. Of course, it would be good if he knew more about it, then he could take his steps. However, it is not excluded that for any reason, for example, it is also decided to turn the matter back. That, too, cannot be ruled out; this option remains.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U30	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! You said about this tax increase that it is a compromise that can be lived on. Many of us here have recently been communicating with entrepreneurs who are engaged in tourism. I've been shown these papers, and I understand that their business is just on the verge right now. You know that some companies that have flourished can no longer pay taxes, etc. I see the current situation that this entrepreneur is like a person standing on the edge of a roof and could fall right now. What difference does it make if you finger him or punch him in the eye hole, he's gonna fly off anyway? This 5% or 11% actually gives the same result.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U32	This is the point of asking a question now!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U33	I disagree here. It certainly does not produce the same result, there is a very significant difference between VAT at 14% and 20%.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U34	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U35	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Hotel representatives and tourist operators have pointed out that Estonia needs a large and decent conference centre. This could bring more so-called conference tourists to Estonia. What do you think of such an idea, and what steps have you taken to implement it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U36	Thank you. This is really important because, between you and me, a conference tourist is a tourist who doesn't count so much money, comes from abroad and doesn't count every cent. It's the kind of tourist that leaves more money behind, and it's in our country's best interest. On the other hand, it is also a very broad tourism sector, because global corporations looking every year for a place to train or meet their team or leaders are very much and want to go to different countries, want to experience something new. At the Ministry of Economic Affairs, I have already worked as Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and now as Minister of Enterprise, I work closely with the City Government of Tallinn to clean up the city hall because it has a unique location. It would also be very attractive to foreign tourists. The kind of place where the tourist and fair center is practically in the old town, I don't know, maybe somewhere, but I don't. It would just be a very cool and good attraction center. I am pleased that the city of Tallinn has shown a very good desire for cooperation since last autumn, and we have meetings almost every week to get on with this subject. On behalf of the Estonian state, the extension of the Ministry of Economic Affairs is the Port of Tallinn, which in turn is interested in order to get this area in order. He's got land in the neighborhood, and it's worth his lands too. We have a number of interested parties who would be willing to come to the third party. The idea is that we do not want to make a new Saku Suurhall, where the state will do something and then have to pay for it, but the work of the state and the municipality is to make sure that this thing comes, and the later operation should still be in the hands of the private sector and the centre should pay itself off. It's no secret we've met Hard Rock on a very high level, but there are more interested. So we're working, and I'm really counting on it. The most important thing here is cooperation between the state and the city, and then it will be done. Right now, I don't see it happening.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U37	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have a question for you as the person who was involved in the coalition negotiations. I imagine that when a coalition agreement is made, each party will offer all sorts of ideas and ideas that it wants to implement. These ideas and ideas will be put together and what does not fit into the coalition agreement will be expelled. Every party fights to make sure that its ideas and thoughts are included in the treaty, after which it strongly promotes them in society and fights for them to be implemented. But the coin has, as it turns out, two sides: one side has promises, the other half is costs. Now my question. What party was the party on whose proposal the increase in VAT on hotels was put into the coalition agreement, and what party is it that is now fighting hard for it to be implemented? Is this a new policy of the Reform Party or a new policy of the Social Democrats, or was it maybe an IRL party? I'd like to find out.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U39	There's no secret. The Reform Party has said that their worldview rather does not favour tax distinctions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U40	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. My question relates a little to the one before that. Indeed, we are talking about research tourism, which for some regions is not only the key to tourism but also the key to regional development. I am talking, of course, about the city of Tartu. A few years ago, it was quite a long time ago, we rejoiced when the university was able to hold 365 international conferences a year. That was a good result. Today, we tend to fall behind in the competition for research, and this concerns the development of the whole city and universities of Tartu as a whole. The point is that we have developed strong competitors in Latvia and Sweden, where every euro is counted by sharing conferences, each percentage. It seems to me that we are now losing competitive advantage thanks to this amendment or the new law. What has the country done to really improve something? The point is, as a conference center, city hall doesn't solve the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U42	Yeah, sure. Like I said, we're a small country and big conference centers in every big city we can't do because we just don't manage them. It's good if we can make it to Tallinn. I've had personal experience since I worked for the Saint-Gobain company. I managed to get here an international Saint-Gobain Leaders' Conference with 100 top leaders from all over the world. Most of them, even the Swedes, were here for the first time. That was nine years ago. At the time, several colleagues told me that, oh, you have a beautiful city, a beautiful country. They thought they were some old Soviet country, but it turned out to be a great country. Some promised to come back this summer with their husbands. And as soon as they come back, they will move beyond Tallinn as well. In this sense, the conference centre would give the first impetus to Tallinn, but later they will also go to other regions. But if you ask what the country has done at all to develop tourism, you certainly cannot say that it has not done anything. During the years, EAS and MAK support measures have gone to build tourist attractions, so it is a polar manor in Ida-Virumaa or Lottemaa in Pärnu County. The EAS now has 20 million euros to support small tourist attractions outside Tallinn. I'm sorry, there's also a tivoli-like attraction that could come to Tallinn. It is meant that the total amount of this tourist attraction must not exceed EUR 5 million and half should be paid by the private sector. So actually, we're talking about about eight attractions that would support tourists getting outside of Tallinn (the example of Lottemaa or the polar manor) that I have a reason to go to, for example, I don't know, Põltsamaa or Võrumaa. This competition is now coming in the autumn, and I very much hope that we will see good ideas there and that the country will also be ready to shoulder, not to mention all marketing measures that are quite numerous. You can always do more. And I hope that this EUR 6 million, which will also be earmarked to support the development of tourism outside Tallinn, will be able to come up with a good measure that will really help. We're doing it with the sector, we're not gonna figure it out at the desk like that, looking at the ceiling like that. We are doing this together with the sector, so that it really helps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U43	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U44	Thank you, manager. Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'm a real Estonian man, and I want all of this. I don't go abroad on vacation. Last year, I went to Värska with a family of seven, children and grandchildren. We were there for seven days, and after that, we didn't go anywhere for a long time. I mean, it was extremely expensive. Now, if we put 2%, 3% or 4% more on this VAT, we wouldn't be able to eat much for two months. Do you think domestic tourism is gonna die out, or are we gonna count on someone else?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U45	Thank you. I'm extremely glad you went to Värska. I'm from Värska, and I'm about to get a warm heart when I hear someone's going to Värska. If I go somewhere with my friends, we'll laugh at developing regional policy. When we spend the night in Saaremaa or Ida-Viru County, we say we leave money behind. I'd really like the Estonians to do it more, but it's a question of possibilities. I am also saying here that if overnight stay costs EUR 32 and there is an extra EUR 1 and a half per night, then yes, it is significant money on the one hand, but on the other hand I am not sure that this is why the trip will not take place. That's right. What matters is that people's wages increase in Estonia. I believe that domestic tourism would develop, and that is what we are all trying to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U46	Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. For the second time, you will show that the price of one room, when VAT rises, does not grow much from 32 euros to 33.5 euros. However, if a little bit more is calculated and taken by a specific company with 15 seats and an annual capacity of 75%, this is already good, especially in rural areas, then the state's share of the tax is EUR 6000 per year. If the company has 15 seats and only 10 employees, the reduction in the social tax of 1% will result in the company winning EUR 276 per year for the number of employees, while the increase in VAT will cost EUR 6000 more. I ask you, as Minister for Enterprise, who should be good for the entrepreneur: is this a state policy that extends a helping hand to the entrepreneur, or is it a policy that stretches the hand into the pocket of the entrepreneur?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U48	Thank you. As regards the fact that it costs EUR 6 000 more, it is still assumed that the same EUR 1 and a half will be added to the price of the room, i.e. paid by the visitor. It is not expected that the company will have to pay for it. If the current profits would allow the entrepreneur to simply take this money out of his pocket, then one might say that the entrepreneurs are doing well enough. But not really, I know that. They have to raise the price because the profit is not such as to cover the difference in costs. If VAT were 20% instead of the current 9%, the price increase would indeed be significant. Now it's much smaller. This will come from 2017 and the assumption is that companies will be able to take this into account in their price lists if they know the change long in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U49	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, thank you very much for your meaningful answer. I'm going to ask you this. After all, all the arguments that you have raised in your answers precisely cover the positions we have been talking about all along. If you put forward these arguments right there at the round table and if you and the ministers are now making these decisions, what have the other ministers said about this? Do they realise that in the end we will lose because there will be less consumption if these same tourists do not come here, and therefore VAT will not be paid on other services that every tourist would otherwise use here on the ground?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U51	I can answer this question in such a way that it was very difficult to find understanding and understanding on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U52	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You said that with the increase in VAT, the Estonian state will lose more than it will win, because the revenue from the tax increase is less than the cost of falling tourists. Why, then, has the government decided to increase VAT? Why are decisions taken that are harmful to the Estonian economy, and what is the purpose of this tax increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U54	Thank you. This example, which was 34 million in number, was based on a study by the Institute of Economics, which had been carried out in the knowledge that the tax distinction would disappear, that VAT would go to 20%. Now we already know that this is not the case, that it will be 14%. We do not have a study based on this percentage, but the new figures are certainly not of the above-mentioned order of magnitude. We hope, in view of the additional measure of €6 million to promote rural tourism and the whole of EAS' activities, that this small tax increase will not have such a negative effect at all. But no one really knows. This cannot be fully appreciated, let us be honest, because we do not know what the world market is doing, what exactly is coming from the Finnish market. So at some point, it doesn't matter if there is a very bad situation on the Finnish market and people don't travel outside, it doesn't make them travel between EUR 1 and EUR 2. There are, of course, a lot of factors to put them all in line and it is not possible to assess them accurately. I am not pleased that VAT is decreasing, but I am pleased that it is not going to disappear and is going to decrease significantly less than it was originally requested.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U55	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U56	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Minister! I'm sorry, madam minister, a thousand apologies! I'm listening to a 1.5-euro price increase in one room here, and it sounds to me about the same way as the Prime Minister's story of a 0.5 cent or a 5-cent increase in the price of a litre of petrol. I'm getting sad because it seems like we're really living in this paradigm of the Excel chart. Businesses aren't valued like this, in fact, it's much more complicated. My question, however, is a little broader. It is not just a question of VAT on accommodation companies; it is also a question of excise duties. We were talking here about spas, which are the tourist magnets, and when the fuel excise rises, that means that getting there will become more expensive...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U57	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U58	...the room is becoming more expensive. The average price of a small room is not going to be more expensive by 1.5 euros, it is going to be considerably more expensive, and it is all, in my opinion, uncalculated or not added...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U59	Question, please! There is one minute to ask the question, the debate will come later.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U60	The question is this: is there any hope that the tax will come more than it has so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U61	Hope dies last. But seriously, the 10% increase in fuel excise duty and 15% in diesel initially affect the input price of the product by 0,3%. There are sectors where this affects more, for example, the transport sector had more than one percent. These are the analyses carried out in the Department of Analysis of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and I have no reason to doubt them. The analyses are always analyses, but I have no doubt about their impartiality. Of course, the increase in excise duty will in some way also raise the price of the goods and services affected by this excise duty, the question is how much. So when we talk about fuel, the impact on the input price is 0.3% per year. That's what the numbers are.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U62	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U63	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, It seems to me that we are a believer in strategies, but we solve problems on a project basis. This is confirmed by the fact that we have only recently completed the tourism development plan, which is confirmed by the fact that we have actually stated through the Development Fund that the development of Estonian spas should be a medical spa, so we should start developing our Nokia through the treatment of European people. However, we are now in a situation where we are putting our strategies under pressure and, in fact, we do not see much development in this sector or the contribution of the state. What is your opinion: can we at one point be able to take an approach to disprove a strategic trend versus a real project and talk about real economic growth and a science-based approach, or do you think it is hopeless?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U64	Thank you. It is true that the tourism development plan was completed last spring, a year ago, and it does not take into account that VAT is decreasing or disappearing at all. The fact that the state is not doing anything, I cannot agree, of course, because the EAS is in the new budget period, more than EUR 80 million will come in 2015-2020, and the country will now add another 6 million to the development of tourism. These amounts are not small. But I think you have a very good opportunity in this House to express your opinion on the VAT issue in the tourism sector during the budgetary procedure. If you think this 5% compromise is not a good one, you can show your mind here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U65	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U66	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I am also from South Estonia, and I know that on the side of rural enterprise, especially tourism, the problem is that the wages in the service sector are very low. Your objective here today is that wages should rise. How does the tax increase guarantee that unemployment will not grow and wages will increase? It's not like it's in sync right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U67	Of course, as I said, no increase in excise duty or tax differentiation will contribute to economic development, that is clear. But we are talking here about the 5% increase in VAT, i.e. the tax will not rise to 20%, but to 14%, and this will take place from 2017. These examples of Excel's table and the rectifiers I also brought up here to illustrate a little bit about what numbers we're talking about. And if the sector's own representatives said they could handle 3%, then under the current agreement, there are only a few percent more, and a few percent means cents at these amounts. If 5% is 1.5 euros, then a few percent less is less than euro. So what else is there, except that the sector can already anticipate it, can be planned. With the support of the whole state, the same 80 million, which goes to the recovery of the tourism sector, plus 6 million, which goes specifically to the recovery of rural tourism, we hope that, on the contrary, more tourists will come. But the hiromant is none of us, let's do our best.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U68	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U69	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear Minister, Your answers have constantly given the impression that someone else would like this increase in VAT to be desired by them, they wanted to, we got a compromise, coming up against their wishes, and so on. You also argued that it was not impossible to reverse the process, or that this tax would not be increased. Can it be said that you personally and the other Social Democrats are not in favour of this tax increase and you would like to cancel it? Therefore, if there is a motion of distrust from the opposition against the Prime Minister, can we hope that the Social Democrats will come along with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U70	I'm speaking on a government level. I have always said, as Minister of Enterprise, that I personally do not consider it right to touch the tax distinction at all; it could remain at 9%. But after heated debates with representatives of the sector and discussions in the cabinet, I have also said that this 5% is a compromise that can be lived on. It shouldn't get in the way of the sector. In addition, the measures taken by the State are added. The 6 million that was decided to add at the night session should also contribute to the arrival of tourists in Estonia, as well as to the arrival of Tallinn tourists outside Tallinn when more tourist attractions come. This is how the sector should survive. Personally, I think that this is a compromise that can be lived on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U71	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U72	Thank you. Madam Minister! I'm sorry, but it must be stated that our government wants to throw a little bit at the economic sector again. I read that an experiment on increasing excise duty in Latvia failed in the case of hotels. My question is, why are we doing what our neighbours did not do well? The difference between Tallinn and Riga is not great, the work of hotels is quite similar. Why don't we learn, don't you want to see that the neighbors didn't do well?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U73	That is exactly what I referred to in my earlier statement when I spoke about the analysis of the Estonian Conjuncture Institute and said that the experiences of other countries tend to confirm the truthfulness of this analysis. I have seen the experiences of Germany, Ireland and also Latvia. In Latvia, the distinction in value added tax (VAT) has indeed been abolished. It is true that this has come at a time when the economy has fallen, and it does not even know how much it was from the recession and how much it was caused by the loss of distinction, but the number of tourists has indeed decreased. When the tax was reduced again, the number of tourists began to increase again. There's some connection here, it's not one-to-one, but it's definitely going to have an effect. VAT is now 12% for accommodation establishments in Latvia and 14% is coming in Estonia, so the difference is luckily small. If this tax had gone to 20% in Estonia, it would have been a considerable difference and an unreasonable decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U74	Maire Aunaste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U75	President-in-Office of the Council. Madam Secretary! I actually have both a question and a proposal at the same time. Urve, you know as well as I do that there are hundreds and hundreds of kilometres of hiking trails in Estonia that pass through untouchable and beautiful nature. Wouldn't it be the right time to market these paths abroad to people for whom this nature is perhaps a completely unique phenomenon? This would take the tourist out of the capital and bring money to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U76	Maybe so. It might fit into what's already planned in EAS, maybe it goes into the $6 million extra. Let's meet, introduce this idea to EAS and do it!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U77	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You stated in your reply that this measure prevents employers from raising workers' wages. You also mentioned that you were already in agreement with this, albeit under different conditions, in the coalition negotiations. It is known that principles will be written in coalition negotiations. I believe that one of the principles of the Social Democrats is to raise people's wages. Do you not feel that you have already lost some of your principles in the coalition negotiations and that you are simply implementing someone else's policy now?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U79	No, it doesn't. It's a short answer. As I said, in the coalition negotiations, I had a disagreement on the special nature of VAT. It was a surprise to want to put this issue into law so quickly. When we learned this, as Minister for Enterprise and my colleagues, the Social Democrats immediately said that it would not make sense to lose VAT in this way. There are really low wages in this sector, there are rising wage pressures, and if companies were able to raise wages, they would do so. In this sense, it is very important that the distinction between VAT is maintained, indeed, less than today, but that price increases are not so high. Plus all the measures I've talked about many times and that would bring tourists to visit our accommodations, both from the outside and from the inside. I think that all of this together is still positive, and this rise could be managed. We'll see. I say once again that it is not known exactly how the number of Finnish tourists is decreasing. And if it shrinks significantly, say that it will only decrease because we have an increase in VAT of 5%, of course we cannot. The reasons are in their domestic currency. But I have also said that, if, for example, when we put together the budget for next year, it is found that the VAT on accommodation establishments must, I do not know, be reduced from the present 9%, then it is all a matter of discussion and these opportunities are still there.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U80	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! People in the accommodation sector always say that if VAT is increased, the sector's livelihood will become worse and probably therefore wages will fall. And if the specialists confirm that, I'm sorry, with all due respect, I still believe in the specialist more than the minister. It is known that 80% of the staff in hotel management are women. Consequently, women's wages are decreasing and this will further increase our pay gap, and there has been a lot of talk about this fish every year. Please tell me whether you have also considered that raising VAT on accommodation services will increase our pay gap.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U82	Thank you for your question. I've been thinking about it a lot. That was also one of the reasons why I fought so hard to eliminate the speciality of VAT. This is precisely because the sector employs a large number of women, often single mothers. So it is very important whether they have a job and what wages are. By the way, I believe in research and analysis. That's what I always want to rely on in my story. These analyses carried out by the Institute of Economics have been carried out on the fact that the VAT distinction is lost, but this is not the case at the moment. So the numbers are different and no new analyses have yet been carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U83	No further questions. Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'm opening negotiations. Please, as representative of Mikhail Stalnukhin's heirs. I'm sorry! First of all, as the representative of Mrs Kersti Sarapuu's heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U84	Thank you again, Mr President. I wouldn't mind if Mikhail Stalnukhin had started. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister! Actually, what I'm saying is we haven't seen where we should be going in four years. The current coalition has not given us such a good view of where we want to be in this four-year period, but rather it has always been based on the balance of the state budget. Today, I saw from the Minister's answers that he actually perceives very well what the situation is and accepts everything we have talked about here on the ground. Yes, when it is said that there is still a way to manage the city of Tallinn, I would really like to confirm that the situation is by no means like this outside Tallinn. Accommodation companies outside Tallinn have a rather difficult situation. Priit Toobal gave a very optimistic example of the fulfillment of accommodation facilities, bearing in mind that it is 75%. It tends to be 17 to 40%. We can also confirm very clearly that outside Tallinn, the accommodation company rarely receives the price at the counter. This counter price has been set at economic costs, employees' wages, certainly also investments, and under no circumstances does this amount coincide with what companies would get for accommodation, let's say, room prices. It is not uncommon for prices to be reduced by 10%, by 20%, by 30%, especially for groups, which is almost entirely normal. So the profit margin is still very small or almost non-existent in most accommodation companies outside Tallinn. We have talked today about the 6 million support programmes that are planned to be implemented, with EUR 2 million per year. At the moment, however, it is not clear whether it is going to be investments or otherwise marketing or other subsidies. If you look at the EAS website, how much support funds have been allocated to the tourism sector in previous periods, including structural funds, we see that larger centres have received the lion's share and other accommodation companies across Estonia have had to settle for quite a small amount. Finally, I would like to say that Lithuania has tried to increase and reduce VAT several times. From 1 January this year, he brought it back to 9% to develop tourism and attract tourists to enjoy the local environment and to use the accommodation service. So we still have to think deeply about how to behave. Rather, this VAT should be reduced down from 9% rather than increased, it would not be an option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U85	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U86	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister! I'd like to say a few words about two things. One thing is that there's been a constant sound in an hour about how the minister fought, fought, fought against it at 20%. The thing is, this fight is not a race where the second place is a very good achievement and a silver medal is given. This fight is boxing, and there's only one winner. The minister fought, but he lost. The second thing I came to this remote control is the constant talk that these 14% are some sort of compromise. Of course, I cannot describe as beautifully what a compromise is, as Sergei Dovlatov did in his book, which has exactly such a title, 'Compromise'. I'm sure a lot of people in this room have read it. But I'm trying to give you a figurative idea of how I see this compromise. Madam Minister, we have a farmer's wife, and in her yard a beautiful big green-eyed hairy cat, hardworking, successful, catches rats and mice in such a scary way. And then the host, on whom the mistress depends, gives her rusted scissors and says that there is nothing to be done, that castration is necessary. 'For what? I don't understand! " He fights, but he loses this fight. The operation begins, the scissors start to rattle, and then halfway, when one testic has already been removed, the compromise is that we keep the other. Let this cat be happy with one egg. You know, it happens exactly what happened in Latvia and what happened in Lithuania. The cat in this yard won't show his face anymore, if he has the slightest chance to escape to the next door, he will. Don't call it a compromise, don't call it a fight! Right now, they're killing the chicken that lays gold eggs. That's just the subject. A compromise fight, no matter what you want, you're talking about where it hurts the most when you're being held. The tourism sector is currently being held by test bulges without thinking about what will happen in a few years' time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U87	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U88	Honourable Chairman! Madam Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I want to start by talking about taxes. You know, when a kid goes to school, he's gonna find out what taxes are. One version says taxes are for the state to need money. They say it's the truth of economics. That's right, it's the truth of elementary school. The university teaches that taxes are not only a source of income but also one of the main mechanisms of social governance. You turn on a little bit, society behaves the same, you turn around, and, you know, society works the same way. Of course, I have an unsolvable question; I do not understand which education the government of the Republic of Estonia is acting according to either primary school education or its second. According to this second, taxes can sometimes be imposed even if they discipline and do not always generate revenue, ending up with all kinds of parking orders and payments, etc. In fact, I am particularly excited, however, by such a narrow section of tourism as scientific tourism. It's not exactly the same as conference tourism where someone goes to upgrade or something like that. There is a city in Estonia for which science tourism is a driving force for development. At the end of the last millennium, Tartu's development plans talked about how our higher education was being promoted, how Tartu is a city of education and science, and one of the measures has always been research tourism. When universities are compared, the organisation of conferences is one very strong argument, and this is also a very serious fight in Europe. Yes, literally a fight that can organize them. The scientific conference will generate scientific revenue and provide purely economic revenue, and two things will be needed there. It's not enough to have a hotel, there's gotta be research potential. In Estonia, it exists in one city, Tartu. The number I mentioned earlier at the 365 International Conferences per year has already become obsolete. In the meantime, the number has grown. That's a very good figure. Various events have been held in Tartu because of its potential. I had a very positive surprise when even the days of Swedish scientists, historians, were taken in Tartu. There were two reasons for this: firstly, it was cheaper to do them in Estonia at the time, and secondly, there is an archive in Tartu and a large fragment of the Swedish history. At present, it is not Tallinn that competes in organising Tartu's research tourism and organising scientific conferences, but Riga is a competitor, and even tax percentages are counted. The competitor is Sweden, the competitor is Malta, where even universities were hacked to do so, so that in addition to tourism, conference tourism could be developed there. Estonia is quite sad about this. I remember that in 2018, Estonia will have an important position in the European Union, the Presidency. And imagine, so far, the European Research Fund, without any instructions, has, for some reason, shared more of these major conferences with the Presidency. We don't have much of a chance. For example, when science conferences in the first category require 12 parallel halls, etc., it is difficult to manage. As far as our tax system and tax reforms are concerned, I am fortunate to have two good friends who are currently members of the Latvian Government. I asked what they thought. They are satisfied with the Estonian Government. They say that Estonia is pursuing a suitable policy for Latvia. And I don't understand if they said that as friends, that maybe we're in the same business, or if there's also transnational competition here. Help me answer that question. They're happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U89	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U90	Honourable President-in-Office! Minister, colleagues! I'm still with my old thing. Eight years ago, the Paljassaare project was launched. Eight years ago! It's very hard for the government to work if it doesn't have a vision. The government doesn't know what to do in four years. He wants to do it today, yesterday, maybe tomorrow. We knew already eight years ago what Estonia needed. Paljassaare cultural broads consist of three separate peninsulas. One peninsula is a cultural peninsula, with a 10 000-seater conference centre. The ten thousand centers can have 12 to 20 parallel halls. The other is the peninsula of vice. The downtown of Tallinn is terribly troubled by the fact that there is a jam at night, nightclubs are open, people are not at peace. There's a solution, it's on the peninsula. Tallinn does not have a tivoli. The third peninsula would be the island of Tivoli. The fourth to meet the greens would be a seagull toilet, so that they would not go to Tallinn to defecation. We saw that coming eight years ago. And what did I get in response to the Environment Minister? The Minister of the Environment does not coordinate the Paljassaare cultural expanse because he does not see sustainability there and because there are suddenly environmental risks. Then we're gonna have to turn off the cars, too. All right, that's why excise duty rises so cars can drive less. It'd be better to walk or ride a horse, then there would be no danger at all. I don't understand what Mr. Pomerants meant when he answered the seven questions we asked. It is also particularly good when he wrote the end: "The development of the cultural hemisphere planned for Tallinn Bay must take place in a sustainable and environmentally sound or sustainable manner. " Smile spot! When all the places are done, all the data is given, all the studies are done! It's a laugh. Are there not proposals at all that are not being followed at all by the things that others are offering? Or is there some kind of dragonfly in front of the level of education, envy? What is that? We live in one country, we have one goal. We have one vision, we have no vision for four years. I'm a teacher, and I'm gonna be a teacher until I die. My shortest visions last 12 years, at least 12 years, plus another five years, so you can find out what happened to your students. So 17 years is the shortest vision. I'm just a young teacher because I've been through one lap, plus three years. Comrade Minister of Economic Affairs, you could also go through 17 years or 20 years and then see what happens. Think, find a vision! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U91	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U92	Manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I listen and I think I still don't understand the politics of the current government. The coalition agreement is signed, but nobody likes it. The ambassadors of the Reform Party didn't like it in this hall today, the ambassadors of the IRL didn't like it, the minister who was supposed to be doing the presentation didn't like it. And, oh, the joy that VAT will not rise to 20% comes only 14%. We have then given the company 6%, not to mention that the VAT rate is still rising by 5%. And if you bring the parallel with the increase in fuel excise duty, Estonian entrepreneurs and other people could also rejoice, as this increase will not come in 2019, it will be done earlier. After all, we could do this by raising excise duties on fuel only in 2016 and 2017, even though 15% in both years, and then not at all in 2018 and 2019. Pleasure how much! But I don't know where that policy is going. The fact is that 7% of tourism entrepreneurship comes from Estonia's GDP. It is a functioning economic structure. If the government is now trying to weaken the competitiveness of entrepreneurship, what will in the future be the means of trying to get money into the state budget? After all, it is a fact that two major investments have been put to a halt after this news, one is the construction of a hotel and the other is the large expansion of the Pühajärve centre. This means tens of millions of investments, additional jobs and additional revenue in the state budget. The question is whether money should be received in the state budget as a result of economic growth, which I believe is the right step, or by adding additional taxes to businesses, which is a short-term step and which will not take us anywhere further. So I don't know what the government means. Entrepreneurs don't understand what the government means. These tax increases place a heavy burden on Estonia's competitiveness and it is not excluded that companies and entrepreneurship will move away to Latvia or Lithuania. And where is our victory? As there is still time until 2017, perhaps you will reconsider, you will come back here before the Riigikogu and say that this was the wrong step, as the Lithuanian Parliament and Government have already thought. I think that Estonia will reach exactly the same distance because it is not possible to increase their competitiveness by adding additional taxes to businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U93	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U94	Mr. Speaker! Madam Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is necessary to over-emphasise a few simple things once again. It is clear to almost everyone that this tax increase, which is specifically planned for accommodation companies, as well as all other tax increases in one package, will damage the Estonian economy. It is quite clear that the funds planned, to the extent that the government has planned, will not be collected. Growth is depressed, jobs are shrinking. I also think it is quite clear that sooner or later, I hope that these taxes will have to be repaid sooner. There must be a completely different tax reform in Estonia. But for everyone to understand who is responsible for the terrible damage that is being done to the Estonian economy in the meantime, businesses are being closed and even more people are going to leave Estonia, it has to be crossed down again here. The Social Democratic Party can speak as much as it wants them not to like it, but they are co-responsible for the failure of the Estonian economy. Just as the co-responsible are also IRL ambassadors and just as the co-responsible are members of the Reform Party. Future bad news in the Estonian economy is their fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U95	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Last week we had a so-called'sessional week' and probably many of us met voters, including tourism entrepreneurs, at both formal and informal meetings. And I have a feeling that probably many of the delegates, including the members of the coalition, said at these meetings to their voters who complained to them about raising VAT on accommodation facilities that yes, you are right, but I wouldn't raise it, I understand you, I wouldn't raise it, but this coalition agreement is forcing me to do so. Somewhere there is a coalition agreement that has begun to live a completely independent life and has taken the minds of the vigilantes themselves, who have lost their ability to think independently. It would be high time, the respected coalition members in the hall were few of you, but maybe somewhere behind the TV there are more, straighten your back and resist before the government comes to this hall with this bill, to say that we do not agree with that. Sometimes it is useful to take one step backwards to then take several steps forward. There are also a couple of perfectly reasonable points in the coalition agreement to deny it. If the coalition wants to move on with them, we should give in somewhere, otherwise the last drop of trust will be lost in the eyes of the voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U97	There is no further wish for negotiation. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U98	The next question is submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Siret Kotka, Marika Tuus-Laul, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Vladimir Velman, Lauri Laasi, Andrei Novikov, Dmitri Dmitriev, Tarmo Tamm, Olga Ivanova, Rein Ratas, Jüri Ratas, Martin Repinski, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Karilaid, Priit Toobal, Aadu Must, Viktor Vassilyev, Mikhail Korb, Toomas Vitsut and Mailis Reps. On behalf of the heirs Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The members of the Centre Party Group submitted an inquiry to the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus, which concerned the situation of Estonian dairy producers. Our dairy producers are in a situation where, on the one hand, they are still affected by the sanctions caused by the crisis in Ukraine, on the other hand, the European Union has been s. a milk quotas in force for milk producers withdrawn from 1 April. The disappearance of quotas means that the pressure on the price of milk is increasing. Latvia and Lithuania have supported their dairy producers with several million euros; unfortunately, Estonia has not done so. The Estonian farmer has so far received support mainly from the European Union, because the central government of Estonia has answered requests for help in a negative way. For example, in mid-April, the government, headed by the Minister for Finance, refused to support dairy producers exceptionally with EUR 2.8 million. That is how we are in a situation where farmers are forced to tighten up their activities and lay off their workers more and more. Dozens of milk producers have already ceased their activities due to difficulties. It is also known that already 3,500 cows, or 28 cows, have been eradicated and this trend may continue. In all this respect, we have asked the Minister for Rural Affairs four questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U100	And that is why the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruuse, is coming and responding to an inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U101	President of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good guests! I will read out the questions that have been asked to the Minister for Rural Affairs. The first question: 'Latvia, Lithuania, as well as Finland value farmers and support them in difficult times. How big does the Minister estimate that the crisis in Estonia will be, or how small will the dairy herd shrink, so that the state will pay more attention to it and allocate the necessary support? 'The Ministry of Agriculture has been monitoring the situation throughout the agricultural sector, including milk production. In this sense, the questioner is right that the disappearance of the Russian market has had a decisive impact on the situation in the sector and, in particular, on the buying-in price of raw milk. It must be acknowledged that due to the disappearance of markets and low buying-in prices, the agricultural sector is in a worse position than it could be. However, the State will contribute to the search for new markets and the enhancement of raw materials and the creation of opportunities for them. We have also opened and are opening up rural development policy measures that support business development and product development. Following the disappearance of the Russian market, producers have also found new export markets, 19 of them. However, it is certain that the quantities sold on these markets are not yet sufficient to compensate for everything. The second question: 'Small European producers have pointed out in protests that small producers are facing a wave of bankruptcy, as they are bankrupted after quotas have been abolished and cheap milk surpluses are reaching the shops. What do you think will be the impact of the abolition of quotas on Estonian small producers and dairy producers as a whole? " In a broader sense, the abolition of the milk quota will certainly lead to freedom of production decisions on the one hand. This means that if a producer, including a small producer, has a desire to increase its production, it will no longer have to worry about whether the quota is sufficient or what the possibility of obtaining it is. Negatively, the disappearance of the quota and the expected slight decrease in the price of milk may have an impact on those producers whose production has a high cost and the potential to make production less efficient. However, it has to be recognised that such producers are present in all sizes, not only for small producers, but only for the dairy sector. However, we note that in all the sectors concerned, it is precisely because of the high cost of production that it is more difficult for small producers to endure in competition. The third question: 'The Ministry of Finance pointed out, as one of the reasons why the EUR 2.8 million application was not accepted, that the application was not clear as to whom and how the grant would be distributed. Does the Ministry of Agriculture intend to remove the deficiencies in the application submitted by the Ministry of Finance and submit a new application to compensate for the difference between the cost price of Estonian milk producers in December and the buying-in price? ' With regard to this request, it was in line with all the preconditions laid down for the allocation of Estonian state resources for additional grants. They met the general criteria established in the European Union. These criteria were already laid down in Regulation No 3 of 14 January 2015. When this draft was drawn up, the Ministry of Finance did not have any comments that the application did not meet the criteria. The technical problem with the procedure for this request relates to the fact that, on the basis of a Regulation of the European Commission allowing the payment of additional national exceptional aid, the Commission should have been informed by 31 March 2015 at the latest of the criteria for granting national aid and, by 30 April at the latest, the aid should have already been paid to producers. In fact, it was too late for us to receive this letter of reply and it was no longer meaningful to change the requests or to provide further explanations in this situation. Question 4: 'How do you feel about the idea of creating an Estonian milk brand to increase export capacity and what are the chances that the state can at least support dairy producers on this issue? ' I think that Estonia's milk and, more generally, Estonian food can certainly be helped to increase export capacity, and this has been done through a number of support measures over the years. We should not be ashamed of the quality of Estonian food. Our farmers are actually very smart and take advantage of new modern ways of making production more efficient and of improving quality. There are also companies in this sector who say that if no one can withstand competition, their market share will be re-distributed. It's a natural approach. However, I am convinced that the Estonian milk brand alone will not solve all the problems. The most important question, however, is how we can produce as many products as possible that are in demand in the world and how we can earn raw milk right here in Estonia in order not to restrict ourselves to selling out raw milk. A number of RDP measures, both during the 2007-2013 period and during the 20142020 period, are aimed at making both production and processing more efficient, including the promotion of cooperation between producers, processors and researchers. Estonia's food 2015/20 is also an important part of Estonia's food promotion and sales promotion plan. Studies show that an Estonian person certainly wants to consume more quality Estonian food, although yes, it is not always quite clear whether the food is made in Estonia or abroad. But this is already a question of packaging, labelling and also consumer awareness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U102	Questions for the Minister. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Another question in a row when we hear some very pessimistic statements as answers. I'd like to hear something good. I'd be happy to give you that chance. In fact, three weeks ago, we were discussing the problem of an unhappy parish. Ten thousand pigs fell on the parish and it was impossible to feed them. Then they turned to you, and you promised to ask for a grant from the reserve of the Government of the Republic. We talked about 35,000 euros a month. Did you succeed? Did you address the government and when you did, what was your answer? Did this parish get the money to feed these pigs? What's the end of the story?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U104	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I would point out that the amount finally spent by the municipality was just under EUR 20000. But what is important is that I, as Minister, have said that the municipality should not actually bear this cost. We are currently in the middle of negotiations on this because bankruptcy proceedings are in principle ongoing and we do not know whether it is possible to compensate for the amount required through a new buyer. If it turns out that there is no such possibility, then the Minister for Rural Affairs will certainly apply for funding from the Government's reserve fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U105	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U106	Thank you! Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Today, in the Committee on Rural Affairs, there were representatives of the PRIA who claimed that they would not be able to pay out European Union agricultural subsidies traditionally in December, but only in March next year. That's very bad news. This is not such a case of 'Yes, Minister', where officials decide and the Minister's political will is actually different? Let us be honest, if subsidies are paid out only next year, even though they have been paid for the last ten years at the end of the year, then in a difficult economic situation where corporate balance sheets are poor anyway, they will be damaged and, for example, we will be able to apply for subsidies. How would you solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U107	Honourable questioner! Indeed, as you pointed out, this is information this morning. This paper had not been received on the ministerial table at the time I came to the Riigikogu, but I know that this request will come. It's kind of a surprise for me. This has never been on the table in previous discussions. Some countries have requested a previous payment of part-financing. However, our firm position is that we must make an effort to pay out subsidies at the end of the year. This is the subject of the Minister's subsequent discussions. But I cannot give you a final answer today, because I have not heard of the direct source of the reasons why a later payment was proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U108	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U109	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. This is not much different from the subject of the previous inquiry, which was the value added tax (VAT) for accommodation establishments. This change affects the competitiveness of Estonian companies, this time our farmers, just how competitive they are on the European market. As we know, the top-up is not being implemented, there are no additional state subsidies, not even 2.8 million were found. In my opinion, milk production could be Estonia's Nokia, if it were rational. But looking at the government's actions, it seems that the government's plan is to further'support' farmers by increasing the excise duty on the fuel used by farmers. How do you understand that? What's going on? How should a farmer cope, and what are the future prospects for farmers?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U110	Thank you, Reverend Asker! When we talk about subsidies and take income for a ton of milk, we can see that in 2013, for example, EUR 338, there were EUR 19 in subsidies. No matter how hard we try, with subsidies, we can't keep agriculture going. Let us look at the cost of milk. It has been said repeatedly here that Lithuania is paying support. However, I fear that if Lithuania continues with the same land fund and small production as it does, its raw milk will certainly not be as competitive as Estonian milk. This is also shown by the rise in the price of raw milk in Estonia, when Lithuania started to buy a lot of milk from us. But when we talk about agricultural machines and the blue fuel they use, I am glad that the rate of excise duty did not really increase, but remained at the same level. It has not been decided that this rate will increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U111	No further questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Less than a year ago, in August of last year, our group in this composition spent a few days in Pärnumaa in a nice countryside to prepare for the new political season. We also had visitors there, including a representative of a rather large dairy company. Just in case, I'm not gonna tell you what kind of company it was, but that guy really did explain the nature of the problems to us. Even those who, like me, do not really understand agriculture began to understand the situation that we are experiencing. I may be wrong in numbers and I'm figuratively speaking, but remembering that the milk we produce is divided into about three parts. One has gone directly to Russia, and this road is now closed because of the counter-sanctions. One third or so went to Latvia and Lithuania for processing, but the market for this milk was also Russia, so this channel is already closing down. This means that two thirds of the volume produced in 2013 by our happy dairy producers has not been able to be sold at a later stage. In this situation, there will be an oversupply, which means that prices will fall. This, in turn, means that, in the run, we will simply lose the dairy industry. It is not a meat industry, it is not a pig farm that can be restored in a few years. It's something else entirely. Breeding and all other activities related to dairy cattle take long years. Why am I telling you this? Because we immediately asked this entrepreneur whether you are talking to each other or whether you are also going to the Ministry of Agriculture. Have you had any meetings with the Minister of Agriculture and the Chancellors and others who are all there? Yes, of course we meet and discuss all the time. And as a result of these discussions and sitting down, we have received a situation that is now: unfortunately, it is clear that the majority of milk producers are at great risk. I just don't understand why we need the Ministry at all if he can't do anything about it. Yet, it was known that this would be the case in the near future. Why do we need this structure? People ask me that all the time. Or rather, I have to say here that people don't talk or ask too much about politics, they don't want to hear any more bad news. Every time a question is asked about our economy or our foreign policy, the answer hears something negative. Last week's meeting with the voters asked me whether I knew how the Prime Minister went to Luxembourg. Did he give flowers to the couple, and how did he know who the bride was and who the groom was, and did he kiss the bride? I mean, they don't want to talk seriously about serious problems anymore. And that is unfortunately because they see that no one wants to deal seriously with serious problems. If you have something to explain as a person who shares agriculture, why it was not possible, although the situation was predictable, to do something about it, please do it! Explain to us why the pride of the Estonian state, our dairy industry, is currently in the situation that it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U113	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I am very pleased that there are 19 people interested in milk production in the Central Party. The performers have been reduced, because this topic is not very popular in this hall, but the problem is very serious in itself. There has been a discussion of the cows to be disposed of, which are now about 4,000, and it is estimated that there may soon be some 8,000. Well, maybe this figure seems small compared to 1999, when 30,000 cows were taken to the slaughterhouse for some time, but 8 000 cows mean almost 10% of the cows in Estonia. Milk production is one of the most prominent industries in the Estonian economy. This is a branch of the real economy where we can export 70% more than we consume ourselves. This, in my opinion, is a very important fact, we must be able to take something out of this country, something that is 'quite tangible'. Speaking of figures a little bit more, Estonia's dairy producers will have a daily cost of less than 80000 €90,000, which will amount to 2.7% to 3 million a month and more than 30 million euros a year. The question now is whether the state should make up for the losses of businesses. Of course, not all losses have to be compensated, because some of them are linked to market risk. But there is also a political risk that it would be extremely reasonable for the Republic of Estonia to participate in this, even if it were to show its attitude. As it is necessary, this has also been proven by the European Union, which has provided support, which has also been paid to the four countries most affected by the Russian embargo, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Finland. This is the same amount of EUR 6.9 million, and the same decision also gave these four countries the right to pay the same amount of support themselves. Estonia applied for 2.8 million euros, which Ivar Padar will certainly be talking about here, and we will not be paying that money. We are going to ask for this support, and the European Union recognises that this is a problem that goes beyond the framework of fluctuations in the normal market situation. The European Union acknowledges this, Estonia is going to ask for this money, but it does not want to put anything into play. This is a fact that is no good at all, and this money itself is a very small amount of money. Now an interesting nuance in the style of 'Yes, Minister', which I asked about here today. It turns out that the Minister for Rural Affairs only found out today that the PRIA intends to pay out grants instead of the end of the year in March next year or even later. That's a pretty weird story. I cannot imagine how one office can come here with its officials to speak to Parliament what they intend to do, to let out a 'negative' bird, without having any political permission or mandate. In the current situation, this payment of subsidies is an extremely important issue, because things are already poor. At the end of the year, this may be even worse, but the period for applying for investment grants in the new period of the European Union is approaching. Corporate balance sheets are quite severely damaged due to late payments, with poor financial results. This activity of officials therefore places an additional burden on Estonian milk producers. However, there should be no such situation. I very much hope that the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruuse, will take this concern seriously. I realized he wanted to deal with it, even though we didn't get a clear yes from him. I believe the jokes in "Yes, Mr. Minister" are only good to watch on TV. I hope that in the Republic of Estonia these concerns can be resolved now and now as they must, that the political will to pay out the subsidies in time will win. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U115	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U116	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Yes, we have seen very different economic crises in this Chamber, including agricultural crises. We do not know how far the current difficult situation in agriculture will continue to develop, but I do believe that this will not be so severe and devastating as 1999/2000, for example. I will give you three important reasons. Firstly, when we talk specifically about the dairy sector, the world prices started to fall in the second and third quarters of last year. The second reason is Russia's unexpected attack on Crimea and Ukraine as a whole, which triggered various sanctions. And the third reason which, I fear, will not allow the sector to be brought into stable water in 2015 is the disappearance of quotas. After the quotas have been abolished, even the smartest person cannot imagine how much the actual figure for raw milk production in Europe will be. Farmers from very many countries are prepared to lose quotas and maybe overproduction will be quite high in the current situation. Let's go. One thing is what the country can do here. If the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture has planned to pay out some 300 million grants this year, it is not a small amount of money. Of course, with the top-up, it would be prouder, 320 million. My colleague, Jaanus Marrand, pointed out the extent to which we have been destroyed. The destruction alone in the dairy sector is expected to be 30 to 40 million. But I'm honest: our country's chances of helping us theoretically may be helpful, but they won't solve the whole problem. But one thing we must certainly bear in mind. Once, when cutbacks were made, I was another minister. Then we spoke cynically about the need to make good use of each crisis. Today, I also say that we are seeing well the weaknesses of the whole sector during this crisis. One drawback is that the sector stands out from the low level of cooperation between producers themselves, the lack of coordinated action. A very serious concern is the mistrust between the processing sector and producers, which is not generally the case in a civilised country. In Finland, we do not see such mistrust, because everything is cooperative, the chain of responsibility is complete, even until the bank is in place. There is therefore a great deal to be done within the sector, i.e. farmers themselves, to be prepared for new crises and to be prepared to defend their positions themselves. The state of affairs that has developed between individual processing companies and farmers is almost banal, I dare say. So there's nothing to say, the year 2015 will be difficult. The state must, of course, do the maximum that it can do, but the country will certainly not be able to compensate for all this market gap. However, activities which have a longer impact and which need to be resolved within two or three years, such as better cooperation between farmers, must be seriously addressed. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U117	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U118	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. There is actually no minister, but it is good for me to speak after the two esteemed former ministers for agriculture, who are familiar with the subject. There is no problem with anything other than the competitiveness of this sector. If our farmers had the same conditions as our neighbors on the Latvians, for example, I wouldn't come here with a remote control or murmuring. But the Latvian state has further supported its farmer, the Latvian state pays top-up, and the result is that our milk goes to Latvia for some reason. I recently spoke to a farmer. I ran into him on the street, and he said that all his raw milk was going to Latvia. I asked where these cars were refueling, he said these milk trucks were filling in Latvia. I ask what will remain of the Estonian state. Are we a developing country that produces raw materials but cannot deserve it? A year ago, I remembered that about 71 million euros of milk was transported from Estonia to Latvia and Lithuania, or in old money for a billion euros. If this milk had been processed in Estonia and had been earned to the final product, we would have at least 500 additional jobs. For some reason, these places have not arisen and it is not clear today how to solve this problem in Estonia, how to create these jobs and ensure that the money remains in Estonia. If processing is carried out in the neighbouring countries, the Estonian state will not win. The situation is sad, actually. We are talking about additional export markets, while within a year we have lost 17% of the export market, which is close to 40% in monetary terms. The whole sector is facing a difficult situation. How do you get out of it? Are our farmers even able to get out of it? The current milk price does not correspond to actual expenditure. Farmers have said that about 30 cents could be the price that would ensure sustainable production. But to a minister who is not in the hall, I can let you know that the excise duty on fuel will also rise for farmers. It does not rise at the same rate as for other sectors, but it can be foreseen there too, and it certainly does not promote the competitiveness of Estonian farmers. To conclude, ensure that conditions allow our companies to remain competitive, such as those in neighbouring countries, and if they fail then, they will have no reason to complain. But as long as it's not guaranteed, we're gonna have to complain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U119	There are no further requests to speak. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U120	And now, after the hammer hit, the free microphone round begins. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U121	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, One mathematics teacher asked a sixth grade student how much is six squared. He got 25 and was shocked because he could expect an answer that would equal, well, the possible options are 3, 4, 8 and 12, then there would be a certain logic that could be done with these numbers, six and two, right? The 25th wasn't considered by the teacher. Asked why this answer was so, how did it come, and heard from this student: "But before me, this girl came to the board, and you asked her what was five squared, and the answer was 25. " He thought all the numbers squared were 25. Don't rush to blame this teacher or this student. People's brains are very different, and you don't know what anybody thinks when they say one thing or another. This can happen to adults, and it happens almost every day. From the sentence that we never know what one man or another can say, my colleagues sometimes realize that I am going to talk about our honorable President, Toomas Hendrik Ilves. During an official state visit to Germany, he said that the European Union could reduce the quota of African refugees planned for Estonia, given that we already have a huge number of migrants. Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about people living in Estonia. About 40% of these migrants are Estonian citizens, while 40% are citizens of other countries, but the residents of Estonia are permanent residents. About 20%, maybe 25% are stateless people, but a large part of them have lived in Estonia for a much longer time than Toomas Hendrik Ilves. How can those people who have lived here for life be equated with working, paying taxes, with whom we have all built the country, with refugees from Sudan, Somalia, Libya? How is that even possible? Can you imagine the dangers it poses? I'm sure you know that the first group, 20,000 fugitives, went into division, and we're gonna get a little over 300 people out of it if my memory doesn't fool me. But it's already heard that there's going to be another group of refugees, 40,000. Do you know that there are officially 350,000 of these people? But this figure has been put forward in order not to intimidate Europe. In fact, between 700000 and 800000 people have landed in Italy last year and this year from North and Central Africa. And this quota, when it goes ahead, means 10,000 ♪ 12,000 young, strong, vicious people who don't have an education that doesn't have a serious job. And these people are really, really evil because they think we're responsible for losing their home. Estonia is a member of NATO and we are guilty too. They never agree to play a different role here. In this situation, where this wave is getting further into Europe and also into Estonia, do you still want to get hard on those people who have lived next to you for tens and tens of years? Is that wise? I don't know. I'm not communicating with the president, but if there's someone in this room who has a chance to talk to him, communicate with him, buy him a maximum of chewing gum. Sometimes it's better to chew than to talk.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U122	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U123	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, what's the point of making free microphone calls? There are few listeners, and it seems unfair to both the President of the sitting and his practical assistants, whose working hours I extend because of some special mood. There's a certain sense of guilt. However, I think that the main aim of the free microphone calls is that there are ideas here that there is no opportunity to say when discussing the item on the agenda. Because there is simply no such subject on the agenda. What am I talking about? I would like to speak not only today, but also in all the next weeks, when there is a free microphone and when I am here, and to speak to an empty hall. The point is that there are certain things in the verbogram that would otherwise probably not be recorded there. It is quite possible that it would happen, as with many things, especially in Soviet-era Estonian history, that if no one has bothered to talk about some things that are not the norm to talk about, yet at one point, then there will be no evidence to the historian, the prospective researcher that there has been a certain problem or phenomenon and that someone has thought about it and tried to generalise it. My personal starting point is that I am now in the Riigikogu for a second time. I've been here since the fall of 1992 for three members, 10,5 years, I haven't been here for 12 years, and now I'm here again. I have now been here for two months trying to understand why the current Riigikogu is different from what was 12 years ago. The differences are, in my opinion, very large. Not all of them are negative, some are positive, but I am still focusing on negative things. I have been thinking that, in the intervening years, when the Estonian press began to call the Riigikogu a rubber stamp, what is this set of real reasons that forced such a generalisation? I've noticed a whole bunch of things that I consider to be components of this rubber seal phenomenon, and they're like, every week in a free microphone, it's okay to talk about one of them. Today, I would only consider one phenomenon that I think is the easiest to describe, and after the introductory part, I may be able to talk about it. A good example is that today, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the first serious draft of its composition was discussed, that is the draft law on insurance business. The representative of the Free Party who came from there described what happened there. In fact, without any discussion, the representatives of the government coalition simply voted down all the proposals that had come from elsewhere, not even offering that we might, as a compromise, put something else in that draft as we wished. This phenomenon could also be called football competition, which means that there are two teams in the Riigikogu. One team is right and another team is always wrong, and what comes from there must be rejected as soon as possible. This phenomenon has historically two forms. I believe that this occurred in the IX Riigikogu, but the first form was that all opposition proposals were rejected, but the proposals of their own people were taken into account. Today shows us that the mood of this football competition is currently in the worst form in the Riigikogu. Surely this is one of the main reasons why the rubber stamp has come into use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-25_U124	The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 5.14 p.m.
