ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 9th working week Tuesday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Please, colleague Mikhail Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I will present an enquiry to the Minister of Finance. Members of the Central Party Group are concerned about the economic situation of Eesti Energia. When we looked at the economic figures for the third quarter of 2015, the most beautiful picture did not open. In the third quarter of this year, the sales revenue of Eesti Energia decreased by 13%, as did pre- depreciation business profit decreased by 9% and net profit decreased by 29% compared to the same time in 2014. According to the report, the decrease in the group's sales revenue was mainly due to the decrease in sales volume. The fact that Eesti Energia plans to reduce the dividend distribution planned for this year is also evidence of the problem in the company.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U3	Excuse me, colleagues. Please, let's listen to the waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U4	This year, the company wants to pay EUR 62 million instead of the EUR 95 million initially planned. The situation of the company is not improved by foreign investment in the USA and Jordan either. Negotiations with banks and potential investors continue to complete the sale of Eesti Energia's participation in Jordan's development project. The oil shale project in the USA has also revealed a number of disadvantages, which is why Eesti Energia has cut the costs of the plan to build an oil industry in the Utah desert. We ask the Minister four questions and expect substantive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U5	Thank you. Mr Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U6	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Committee on Culture initiates the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the National Broadcasting Council of Estonia. In view of the early termination of the mandate of Priit Toobal, member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council, and pursuant to § 15 (4) of the Estonian National Broadcasting Act, we must submit a new candidate. The Committee on Culture decided by consensus to present Enn Frontland's candidacy. Enn Eesmaa has given the necessary written consent to the Council and confirmed that there are no legal inconsistencies in its appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U7	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U8	Good President! Good Riigikogu! On behalf of the ambassadors of the Free Party, we present an inquiry to Marko Pomerants. We will open the topic that Estonian nature has become a museum. More and more protection zones are being established, but this means that the private owner has fewer and fewer opportunities to obtain economic income for his land, to manage him economically. Let's ask the Minister what the plan is. It is possible to submit applications for the acquisition of immovable property. The list of 2006 has been open, and 229 applications have already been gathered there. We want to know how their processing could proceed if, in these nine years, the list has not been shortened, but is increasing. That's all for short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U9	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will give a bill with the signatures of the members of the Riigikogu to the procedure, which is intended to replace both the cohabitation act and the draft law implementing the cohabitation act. The general ideology of the law is to preserve all the positive political aspects that have been in this process, but to rule out any negative package of implementing legislation, particularly in its current form. We believe that this makes Estonian society and Estonian legislative work almost a cartoon. I, too, am constantly getting messages from its supporters, supporters to the phone that we are supposed to adopt the law in exactly the form it is presented. But adopting such a law would certainly be a disaster. This is one of the scariest drafts that has ever been in the proceedings of the Estonian Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U11	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and two inquiries. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 95 members of the Riigikogu are present and there are no 6 members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U12	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the 57th draft law on the amendment of the European Union citizen's law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. The rapporteur is Mart Nutt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! As a reminder, this bill was passed at first reading in Riigikogu on 14 October and the deadline for amendments to the bill was 28 October. Two amendments to the draft were tabled in the Riigikogu, both from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. In addition, the table of amendments contains two proposals from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which are of a technical nature. The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft at two sessions. A substantive debate on procedural decisions was held at a regular meeting on 9 November. However, as there was still a need for individual technical clarifications, the draft was also taken up at the meeting on 17 November. In addition to the members of the Commission, Harry Kattai and Ele Russak, advisers of the Citizenship and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, took part in the discussion on 9 November. The main focus of the debate was on the amendments tabled, and I will now try to present them briefly. First of all, the Centre Party Group, by its proposed amendment, wished to amend § 1 41 and to formulate it as follows: 'A minor of at least 15 years of age may carry out the procedural procedures arising from this Act and participate in the proceedings independently only with the notarial consent of the representative. ' In the earlier text, the representative notarised his consent. The proposers justified this by the fact that such a requirement exists in the Aliens Act and could also be included in the Citizenship Act of the European Union. The representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, however, argued against the fact that the inclusion of this provision does not change the existing practice at all and, instead, raises problems for more young people aged 15 and 18, for example, if they wish to study in Estonia. If they were to get notarized consent, their lives would be much bitterer. For example, it would be very burdensome for the parents of minors coming to Estonia during student exchange and there is no need for it. The representatives of the Ministry of the Interior did not support the inclusion of this provision and the Commission did not support the proposal either. The proposal was supported by 2 members of the Commission, 5 against and 1 abstention. The second proposal was intended to amend § 1 (24), which amended § 526 (2) of the Citizen's Act and to formulate it as follows: 'If a citizen of the European Union has resided permanently in Estonia for the last ten years in a row, his right of residence may be restricted only if there is a significant threat to public policy or the security of the state. 'The phrase'significant threat to public order' is added, which was not included in the draft law submitted by the Government. The representative of the Ministry of the Interior explained that there was one problem with this provision. In particular, this amendment would be directly contrary to the European Union Directive, which brings Estonian law into line, and Article 28 (3) (a) of which provides that the right of residence of a citizen of the European Union or of a permanent resident who has resided in a country for at least 10 years may be restricted only in the event of an unavoidable threat to the security of the state. However, the directive does not allow it to be extended. The Commission also discussed the question of where exactly the border could go, as it could be drawn between the threat of public order and the threat to national security, and there could be quite a number of such border zones or grey zones. For example, it was discussed whether riots were a violation of public order or a threat to national security. The Ministry of the Interior replied that the case by case must be decided. There is probably no way to make a general arrangement of any kind that is now necessarily so or necessarily so. There is also a rather diverse European case-law on what grounds, for example, a person may or may not be expelled. The question of restricting the right of residence was also raised. What does it mean to limit the right of residence, to expel a person from the country? The advisor of the Ministry of the Interior replied that restricting the right of residence generally means that a decision is taken to revoke the right of residence. This involves expulsion of a person unless he/she consents to leave voluntarily. In these circumstances, the second amendment was rejected, 3 in favour, 4 against and 1 abstention from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The two proposals of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs themselves, the third and fourth, are of a technical nature, as I said, and therefore I will not introduce them further. The procedural decisions taken by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are as follows: first, it was proposed to put the draft on the agenda for the debate on 24 November (the decision was consensual), secondly, to close the second reading (also consensual), to send the draft to third reading when the second reading is closed, including by 26 November (consensual), and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote (also a consensual decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U14	Thank you, dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U15	Mr President of the sitting! My speech on this remote is a broader topic than a specific draft, because the shortcomings in this draft are typical shortcomings. They have evolved since Estonia became a member of the European Union and continue to evolve according to how the directives change. A new form of draft has developed, which could be called the laws of the Euro Directives in Estonia. This could generally be described as a form of eurohaltura, since the texts of such laws are generally bad and shuffling. Translations of the Directive are mostly made in a bucvalist way, so there is all kinds of crap. There has also been a completely unnecessary amendment to this draft, which is currently being discussed. Namely, 'health of other people' is changed to 'public health', which does not mean anything in the context of Estonian law and politically would be completely equal to the content of these expressions. In such cases, it is generally a question of how we proceed with these things. In the same way, in the meantime, a well-established Halturutine, adopted by the officials of the ministries, members of our committees, and also by a number of members of the Riigikogu who have been accustomed to it over the years? The first, very general problem is what the laws look like. If you look at this law, there is almost nothing left of the original system of paragraphs. Half of the initial section numbers have been discarded and additional paragraphs have been skipped, which are marked by the top numbers. This, however, already leads to a certain record, for example, here is § 52 with a top number 13. If we take a prime, a second and a terts expression, it would be correct to call it § 52 tertsdeetsim. Hey, that's bullshit! I proposed in the Commission that this law be put in a sensible shape so that it would be a complete numbering from the outset. On top of that, the Commission staff shook their shoulders, because they said that such a crazy attempt had never been made. Ministry officials said they should leave the Ministry in that case, because it's messing up all the documentation, and it can't go on like this. Our question is whether, as suggested, progress can be made. The second and perhaps even more dangerous problem is here. In fact, there is also an operative part of all laws that makes changes to other laws. Suppose that some of the amendments to other laws are necessary, obviously no other part is necessary. Politically and technically, it is important that the Riigikogu has established a practice according to which these changes, which are in the area of competence of another of our permanent committees, are no longer sent to committees for evaluation. But the other committees themselves have also abandoned any attempt to do things in their own field. For example, there are relatively few proposals for this law, only amendments to the Penal Code and other amendments to the Legal Affairs Committee. I would argue that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as well as the members of staff, lacks the competence to do these things. This is another example of how laws should not be dealt with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U16	Thank you. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U17	Mr. Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speaker spoke to a large extent about what I wanted to talk about. In fact, how the Estonian Parliament has reduced itself to a rubber stamp with its own laws, and the Estonian executive will provide the services of the Translation Bureau to the European Union. This leads us to a slightly broader philosophical or political issue when we are talking about citizens, citizenship. Yesterday we had a very nice discussion, a discussion of Riigikogu Toimetised, where the identity of Estonians was discussed. There again, a lot of the same story came in that identity is equal to citizenship. No, it doesn't! Dear people, not equal! In France, there was a terrorist who blew himself up, a French citizen of Algeria and a Belgian citizen of Morocco. But this passport, with which these people are moving around the European Union and which, in the opinion of many 'citizen-based' countries, should be part of an identity, is not part of an identity, but is a weapon in the arsenal of these people, with which they come to destroy Europe. Passport doesn't equal identity. The identity is when we understand who Kalevipoeg or Lembitu was, why we put the wreath somewhere in March and June or what was fought for in 1944. We have to understand it internally, we have to relate to it somehow, only then do we understand what the identity of an Estonian is. Passport doesn't give anyone an identity. The language skills don't give it either. So when we talk about citizens of the European Union, there is no such thing as a citizen of the European Union. There are Estonian citizens, Finnish citizens and Swedish citizens. And not all of these citizens are Estonians, Finns or Swedes, but just people who live in this country and who have formed themselves to live there. I am extremely sad to see in this debate on this draft law that citizenship has been reduced to something completely technical and does not really take into account how people really feel and think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U18	Thank you. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U19	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Last week we had a debate on Estonia's sovereignty as an important national issue here. This draft, which we are currently dealing with, is an excellent example of the sovereignty constraints under which Estonia lives. This is what we see constantly in the committees. When ministers come to present us with any views, drafts or initiatives, they will read us the officials' points of view. Estonia has degenerate into a bureaucratic, loyalist country that emulates and embraces European directives and deals with their coordination. We have no sovereignty, we have no elan, we have no faith in ourselves. We have a faithful copy. It's very pathetic. Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas, if he were here right now, he'd be able to tell us a long time about the Soviet army how we don't want it. Indeed, the Soviet army does not want the territory of Estonia or the Russian army we do not want the territory of Estonia, but it would still be able to tell us more about all this than those who lived during this period. In the Soviet army, I quickly learned two basic terms: položeno and ne položeno or 'intended' and 'not intended'. Our entire country, our whole statehood, works within the framework of the European Union in exactly that logic. There will be položeno or ne položeno coming from Brussels and this is very, very worrying. This is precisely the provincialisation that Jaak White told us at the debate on a matter of national importance. I'm putting up a sting against that kind of provincialism and fidelity. We should show greater independence. Actually, it's a little late for that. We are saying that the Riigikogu will decide. What does the Riigikogu even decide for us? He will knock down the rubber stamp to what has already been promised in the European Commission. It's not a decision. Do you, honourable ambassadors, realize that you are demeaning your sovereign and at least potentially deserving position of respect for the people by acting not as sovereigns but as a pathetic rubber stamp? The fight for sovereignty must start at ministerial meetings; it must start at specialist meetings in the directorates. But we do know that this is not happening, because if this were to happen, we would not be sitting here as a pathetic rubber stamp and would not do as the 'chiefs' have already decided at group meetings. I call on you all to stand up and ask the group at its meetings whether we have fought enough for our sovereignty. We represent people here. Have we fought enough for the right of our people to determine our own lives and to stand up for our better judgment and better living? Yesterday we learned that Estonia has become the red lantern in the Baltics. Now the President, the Prime Minister and the Government, if they line up before us, could say that they are ashamed, but not because of the Estonian people, but because of themselves. I recall how Andrus Ansip, who is sitting in a warm place right now, reacted to this kind of criticism when he looked over the heads of the people and over the people. Always the same: statistics do not confirm this. Statistics now confirm this. Ladies and gentlemen, We will stand up and fight for Estonia's sovereignty! Believe me, this road is harder than the rubber seal, but it will ultimately lead us to a more dignified and prosperous position than what has been done here for quite many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U20	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. Four amendments to the draft have been tabled and we will examine them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the position of the commission is to disregard it. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U21	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U22	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U23	Thank you. Conservative People's Party requests ten minutes of break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U24	Urve Tiidus, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U25	No, it's the same thing, taking a break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U26	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U27	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the first amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party and the Steering Committee have disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. 19 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 53 against and 7 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Let's keep going. A second amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U28	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U29	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U30	Thank you. Conservative People's Party requests ten minutes of break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U31	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U32	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall vote on the second amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 17 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 54 against and 7 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The third amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U33	The Conservative People's Party Group is asking for this proposal to be voted on and wants a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U34	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U35	Good fellows! The requested break of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has ended. We are on the third amendment. I shall put to the vote the third amendment tabled by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 60 votes against and 7 abstentions, the proposal was supported. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U36	Thank you. The Conservative People's Party is asking for a vote on the proposal and before this ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U37	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U38	Good fellows! The requested break of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has ended. We are on the fourth amendment. I shall put to the vote the fourth amendment tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 65 votes against 5 and 1 abstention, the proposal was supported. We have examined the amendments. Martin Helme, please, what question do you have?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U39	Thank you. I propose that the second reading of the draft be suspended, voted on and that a ten-minute break be taken before it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U40	I am also asking for this proposal in writing. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U41	Good fellows! An oral and written request has come to the management board of the Riigikogu. In fact, the Conservative People's Party Group proposes that the second reading of the draft 57 be interrupted. Let's start voting on it. I am voting on the motion by the Conservative People's Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft 57. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 17 votes against 51 and 3 abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Second reading of the draft 57 and also the first item on the agenda are closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U42	We will move on to the second item: First reading of the Bill 140 on Amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the Private School Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U43	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I present to you the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school, which aims to increase the proportion of teacher's pay in the education allowance paid to local governments and private schools. An investment grant of approximately 2.6 million euros in education support will be directed at the increase in teachers' pay according to this draft. The amendment allows the salaries of municipal and private school teachers to be increased by 1.4% in addition to the available resources. After wage increases, this change reflects the change in the state's investment policy, which focuses on the organisation of the school network in order to use more resources to improve the content and quality of education. The instruments of this policy will be investment programmes for state secondary schools and comprehensive schools, amounting to a total of EUR 241 million. This significantly reduces both the investment needs of municipalities and the maintenance costs of schools. The very modest investment component in education support compared to these amounts loses its ambition and weight. The focus must be on the organisation of the school network, as the number of pupils in general education schools has decreased by 40% compared to 20 years ago. People no longer live in the same areas as decades ago when the vast majority of the current school network was established. The population is projected to decline in all counties. The scheme for the payment of investment aid, which does not take account of the need for change, no longer justifies itself and even works against it. However, we have set a target of raising teachers' salaries to 120% of the average salary and thus contributing to the content of education. The Estonian Lifelong Learning Strategy 2020 and the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic of 2015 to 2019 also aim to change the overall emphasis on resource allocation and focus resources on raising teachers' salaries and optimising economic costs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U44	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U45	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm asking about the loss of the investment component. In a situation where during the former Minister's time the investment component was also allowed to be used to pay the salaries of support staff, many schools have taken advantage of it. If this component disappears now, what do they have to do? Do they have to give up support staff or lay off some teachers or do something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U46	Thank you! This is essentially a question of whether the state should support higher salaries for teachers or the existence of support staff. Support staff have always had a support service, a function of local government. In the meantime, conflicting promises and decisions are time to change. The pay of teachers must certainly be a key item in education support. Support services are something local, plus a centrally offered support package at the Pathfinder Centres funded by the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U47	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! You are a man who knows different fields, both finance and education. There's one thing I've been asked many times, I'm going to ask you. Over time, we have been struggling with the financing of the education sector, and basically we have been working to re-distribute boxes, to use the same money under one name, another name or third, without it being particularly important. As well as a person who knows about finance, you will understand that there has been a disguised tuition fee in the form of donations, etc., etc., etc. How much additional funding would it take for education to make the system work as well as you would like it to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U49	Thank you. I don't think it's a moment of complacency in government to imagine where everything is okay and the money is enough. But basically, you can't say that kind of money either. Education can spend an endless amount of money like any other. Our moral responsibility is now, firstly, to set the right priorities for education should be a higher priority in the budget. Secondly, any decision should ensure the most effective exploitation of the available resource, which we hope will be able to make it grow. Our desire is undoubtedly that the resource available should be aimed at improving the content of education and end up in a situation where money goes to real estate rather. This is our structural problem, which must be fought against.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U50	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You just said that education should be a priority. Well, he's not really there yet, is he? If 2016 suffers, as you said, a 1.6% increase in teachers' salaries and one day this salary should be above the average in Estonia, then how will these next years suffer such a dangerously steep increase, if I don't think I can add more than 1.6%? In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, it was once said that the teachers' wage fund would grow by 4%. It's very confusing how much teachers pay.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U52	Thank you. I was talking about 1.4%, not 1.6%. I've never talked about 4%. However, I have always talked about the poor budget for education next year and I am not happy with it. I hope that the government will change this attitude in the spring debate on the RES. After all, the resource now went more to cash than to services. That's what I've already said. And that has to change. However, the increase in teachers' salaries is evident when certain laws have been passed in the Riigikogu. The law on private schools has a stronger effect than this bill, which in fact stimulates the maintenance of real estate rather than the development of the content of education. Both private schools and municipal schools must focus on the content of education. However, the school network is something I mean the school network as real estate that municipalities shape according to local needs. But the pay of teachers is a national objective that must be maximised within the resources we have to use.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U53	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Mr. Minister! As of 2005, funds for investments in municipal schools have been added from the state budget's education allowance. In view of this support, the municipalities have taken out loans to renovate their education infrastructure. Now the chances of repaying the loan are lost. Do you not think that this is the same thing as forcing the financing of private schools' operating grants to be imposed on local governments? Can local authorities withstand this burden?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U55	Thank you. The other half of this question I really liked, I hope, in your form, I've got an ally on private school law. In general, when the year 2005 or 2007 or 2008 is called, I always wonder how much the Estonian state has developed and become smarter and how flower-born the country's decisions were once. In 2005, it was considered how more money could be pumped into real estate, although it was already clear that demographic processes would require the opposite: the school network being laid off. And I am very happy to be in a position to correct these mistakes. As Minister of Finance, they were very much improved, but inertia is, of course, often greater in the implementation of professional policies. As far as municipalities are concerned, I have already said that they will receive huge savings thanks to our investment programme, which is targeted. There will be a much more effective school network and their direct financial gain will be very effective. It is not right that they can no longer pay loans, which is a very small part of their budget. In ten municipalities, for example, this investment component is not enough to renovate even one square metre of school space. This is a very remarkable number. Spilling such money from Tallinn all over Estonia, which results in an unreasonable share of real estate expenditure in educational expenditure, must be stopped. Even this small amount has stimulated the maintenance of an existing school network rather than the channelling of resources into the content of education.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U56	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U57	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister of Education, I like, of course, that you dare admit mistakes and say that in the past, we really made mistakes. But the dance around the pay of teachers has been here in the Riigikogu as long as I've been here, all these five years it's been here all along. Promises are big, but reality is something else. Almost all the sums that could have been taken out of education have been taken away. One example is the money for teacher training, which in the past amounted to 3%. It is now 1% of the state budget, 2% of the European Union. And the fact that 2.6 million investment components have been taken away is, in fact, a breach of the agreement by the State because it is the legitimate expectations of the municipalities and the municipalities have taken this into account in the future. But I ask you, as former Minister of Finance: is the country actually broke and there is not enough money for education?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U58	Thank you. The country is not broke, the country sometimes has too popular priorities. I use the word 'cash' and say that cash distribution is always more popular than making something better than cash, such as high-quality education. But that's the way democracy is. You're talking about dancing, but I don't think dancing in the Riigikogu should be repeated all the time. Sometimes you can store answers. The 3% of training was certainly one rigid cell in the budget that was not needed. In this area, schools and municipalities could be given a much greater choice so that they could make their own decisions flexibly. The state, for its part, is centrally providing training for millions of teachers; it is not necessarily necessary to stick a percentage to a salary article, which does not depend at all on the need. And it's the same with investment, and it shouldn't be stuck to the transmission that local governments get. Municipalities must make their own decisions about local life; the state must, of course, stimulate this by agreeing with local governments to optimize the school network. So this is not a dance, it is a more targeted policy. The country would be broke if he took out a loan. He doesn't take it and he does it right.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U59	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U60	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! You argued that, by channeling the investment component into the payroll, teachers' salaries would increase by 1.4%, but you did not say whether the payroll or salary would increase. If you pay, 1.4% is 12.6 euros. That's how much the teacher's salary goes up. If this is the case, the salary will rise less, less than 10 euros. Is all this media poison and spending the entire Riigikogu's resources on this 10 extra euro practical or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U61	Thank you. So hold on to that resource, don't ask me crazy questions every time! This increase of 1.4% means a higher wage fund for those schools that no longer receive the investment component in their current form. This is a very sensible structural change, as I have said many times. Instead of maintaining real estate, it is the duty of the state to contribute to the content and quality of education and to stimulate the optimisation of real estate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U62	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U63	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good minister! In your field, it will cost about 180 million higher education, and the building of schools in the coming years will amount to 230 to 240 million. The Ministry itself will take 130 million, and you will pass on 230 million to the local authorities. You can, of course, fix decimal places, but these are the orders of magnitude. And then you tell us that it is only possible to raise teachers' salaries if private schools are to be beetd. If you take away the money from private schools, these kids go to another school and the state, the taxpayer still has to pay the money. So let's talk about what the real reason is. The reason is that the Ministry wants to keep the money flow in its hands and wants ideological control over what is the content of the teaching and how to teach, not to give it to parents or private initiative. We're not talking about going back to 2010, we're talking about going back to 1985. Do you realize that this is what your motivation seems to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U64	Thank you. I think that once the EKRE has defined itself as a national party, doesn't it worry that what is said in this Chamber will be stored somewhere? It is recorded in written texts, stored in general political culture and does not embellish the Estonian state. I tried to tell you in the hallway, but I got the answer to the nasty talk that there is no need to taunt the Estonian state, there is no need to talk nonsense in this hall. But these numbers you're adding here are once a six-year cost, then a year's cost, and then it's a couple of years' cost. First of all, this is not the way cash flows are dealt with. Secondly, we should not talk about such foolishness that private schools are being created to eliminate the drought of school places. I mean, that's ridiculous, you don't expect them to. And that is not the content of the draft that we are discussing here. In principle, there is one structural problem that this draft deals with, and that is the surplus of school places. On the other hand, in the current regulation of private schools, there has been an accident in regulation, and I would stress the deepening of this structural problem, i.e. the creation of uncontrolled paid school places. The municipality has no say in this. The municipality has only the obligation to keep school places and private schools have full freedom to create them with priority funding. That's a problem. It is not equal competition, but that is what I hope we will talk about next week.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U65	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U66	Thank you, Vice President of the Riigikogu. Mr. Minister! You said that this trivial investment component would allow the renovation or renovation of school homes maybe one square metre per year. But guess what. There are schools in the small local governments of Estonia that operate in the buildings of Oskar Luts, where the barracks of the Russian soldiers have been in the meantime. These buildings will be renovated one square metre per year, starting in 2005, gradually and in a small way. And if you tell these local authorities and school dads and students that the state should stimulate the optimization of the school network, I wrote that sentence down, it won't help them in any way. What sustainable solutions do you envisage, so that they can continue their repairs, even if a square meter per year?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U67	Thank you. But respect the local governments! Don't think it's reasonable that they repair some Russian military objects one square metre by one and call them schools. It certainly does not agree with their dignity either. Respect them so much that you believe that they have the capacity and the desire to work with the country in order to ensure that the learning environment is modern, that the schools are modern and of the right size, and that they also want their schools to be taught by well-paid motivated teachers. This is the content of this amendment and of this reform. The reform itself is, of course, wider than that of the draft. I have also looked deep in the eyes of the sovereigns who represent my party, and I have examined how much trouble they will have if we change this component. And no one has ever considered it a big problem. Only one municipality with a few hundred inhabitants, who obviously no longer holds its independence for a very long time, murmured that it had taken this money into account in its cash flows. But they certainly admit that education in these small schools is not sustainable. At least state policy cannot have the consent to spray its resources into small schools where the teacher does not get full load and children do not have classmates.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U68	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U69	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You said the purpose of the bill was to channel money into the content of education, not real estate. This objective means the breakdown of school buildings and the deterioration of learning conditions. Municipalities are not endless money-sampo. Will you give a prescription, even if there are no normal learning conditions, to give a good education in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U70	Thank you. I have received a good education in much worse conditions than today's children do. I got a really good education, I'm not complaining about anything. We shouldn't, let's say, make the classroom shine into a fetish. But our goal is indeed a modern school environment, not the painting of the walls of decomposed buildings. Investment support is not enough to maintain the quality of the learning environment. However, it is in part enough to fulfill our promise that teachers' wages will rise and that the teaching profession will be valued. And it costs. Different studies show that this is the most important component. From the point of view of learning outcomes, it is not the size of the class and school, but the identity of the teacher. And we know that there will be more good teachers if we take measures to increase the prestige of the teaching profession.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U71	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U72	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Changes in school funding have gradually started to be made, even in terms of investment, and this 3% allocation to training costs has changed. A lot of questions have also been raised by the provision of bounty. Do you have a plan to make any significant changes in the way schools are funded, or does everything go back to the way it was?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U73	Thank you. It's not like the old days. Today we're here with one bill, next week with another bill. But basically, there could be a clearer distribution, which function is carried by the municipality, it is a school network, and which function of the state, it is the content of education. Both drafts will be addressed in the coming weeks. From the point of view of the content of education, the most important element is the teacher's salary, which does not mean that other components of education support are irrelevant. But deciding on them could be more flexible than it is now. The Committee on Culture has expressed different opinions. And my bill didn't go to the government exactly the way it came out of it. But I accept compromises to make sure that things improve. I'm sure this bill will improve as it becomes a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U74	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U75	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! You said what's going on here wasn't a dance. It seems to me that this is such a violent strangulation by you. As a new Member of Parliament, I wonder whether it is normal practice that you are going over a road roll, not taking into account any of their opinions, not from an association of rural governments, an association of cities or a community of private general education schools. They haven't coordinated this bill, but you dare come to us with it. Is this normal practice? Tell me!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U76	Thank you. It's an abnormal practice when you put everything in one piece and then throw this pot on a government, not to mention any argument. After all, you have not said any arguments to reject the bill except to wonder why everyone does not agree with you. These two interest groups, municipalities and private schools, are, on the contrary, concerned about these drafts, which are either side by side or directly affected. Private schools are not opposed to a specific draft of them, but they are against the amendment of the private school law. Municipalities are opposed to the view that private schools have to amend the private school law. These are not comparable things. I very much hope that you will recall this position of the local governments during the debate on the next draft. Indeed, I agree very, very much with them on this draft. However, I must say that their initial reluctant reaction is not very generous, because they know perfectly that it is not really important money. They've admitted it in a cost-aventure conversation. I have referred to the local government characters of my party, who were at the table at the time dozens, but there have been others. This 2.6 million is not important money. However, it is very important to them that they receive investments to clean up the school network, and that is exactly what we are offering. And we offer it in cooperation. We can't leave every little fingernail in the world undecided. We charge a great deal of municipal costs to the state with the state gymnasium project, we take a very large amount of investment into the state with basic schools and state gymnasium investments. And if we take back a little bit to make the educational costs more targeted, I think it is a reasonable compromise, and the municipalities at heart will certainly understand our decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U77	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U78	Thank you, Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. You said that you did not know directly any local government that would oppose this bill, but I look at the comment table that there was one day for coordination. And there was no discussion of this issue in the Education Working Group on Budget Negotiations. Do you not think that the debate on such an important issue should be more thorough and involve as many parties as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U79	Looking for new players and seeking an ever-increasing consensus would make the country stop. I think it's the government's duty to make decisions. Some positions are known, we have confirmed them with this round of coordination, and this was not a completely formal round of coordination. But you misquoted me. You gave me a thought in the first sentence that I have never expressed. Please be correct in your questions!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U80	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that despite the exclusion of investment aid from support for education costs, the State's contribution to investment in the school network will increase significantly. The contribution is to target the total structural support of EUR 241 million for the development of infrastructure in general education schools in the period 2015 to 2020. However, there is a legitimate question about what will happen after 2020. Is such investment financing sustainable, and how is this money to be shared?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U82	Thank you. My answer is still the same: respect the municipalities and leave them with their function. Do not consider them to be a social risk group that the country must maintain at all times. They make their own plans and decisions, I hope, in greater freedom than they have so far, and in the field of education. But what the investment programme will be, it will depend on what the future distribution of the European Union budget will be. Because the current measures, which we have also negotiated with the European Commission for a long time, have been funded only because they are aimed at reform. The school network demands reform. Once the reform has been completed, once the school network has been optimised, the need for investment in the school network will certainly be reduced considerably. How will this be decided in our country? This is a completely new situation, but by then the European Union's investment reform policy will also be clearer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U83	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You have also claimed in this Chamber that most private schools are the property of rich older children. Of course, I do not want to agree with that at all. By saying this, you are insulting the parents of the Krabs and Pikkun school children, who are certainly not rich people, but forcefully, with their teeth crossed, are trying to keep their school alive in the area. But here's the question. In the course of the restructuring, you have certainly also analysed how much of the existing private schools will remain in the new funding system for next year. How much?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U84	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U85	Mr. Bridge, you just lied. I've never said anything like that, not even in this hall. But your group could guide you on what is on the agenda today. Let us now return to this bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U86	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U87	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. After all, you admit that the 2.6 million that are being taken away from local governments are part of the local government's revenue base. In this context, the capacity of local authorities is reduced, for example, it is difficult to pay salaries to support specialists and kindergarten teachers. Why are you, like, confronting the local authorities and the state's paid teachers? After all, these things are interconnected, and the ability of local governments to raise the wages of these people is decreasing with a drop in money.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U88	Thank you! I would call it a cost base, and I do not agree that it will be taken away from the municipalities. This expenditure shall be allocated to the second line of expenditure. These are local government teachers, they are municipal schools, they are the quality of education provided in municipalities. These are the children of the municipalities whose actions are designed to improve the quality of education.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U89	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U90	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education, graduated from funding of state support services, i mean logo pedals and psychologists. Jevgeni Ossinovski tried to resolve the situation as a minister and allowed the municipalities to take the necessary salaries from the investment component for support services. Now the money promised to the support specialists is taken away again and is transferred to the teachers' payroll. The opposite decision will therefore be taken again. The question is this: how do you justify this constant replay? On what basis, contrary to your predecessor, do you find that support specialists are not needed in schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U91	Thank you. My predecessor obviously made a weak compromise, which I would classify as a legislative cull, which must be urgently corrected. However, my predecessor supports my current activities by one hundred percent, he has also repeatedly spoken in the government to confirm it. They say something is an investment component. Okay, if you don't want to call it an investment component, call it something else. This is a legislative failure and it needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U92	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, do you think there is a difference for the taxpayer whether the tax money goes to schools through the ministry or through the local government?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U93	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U94	Thank you. There's a big difference. This difference arises from the right to decide. What kind of accounts money goes through is not important; what matters is what is decided on the level of spending money. Local decisions, the preference of the local community for the school network, and its contribution to cooperation between residents and schools are very important in education. The role of central authority is more about the content of education. I firmly believe that the current division of labour, to which our constitution refers, is actually good. We should not centralise everything that concerns local life, but rather share these decisions with the municipality, delimiting their competences a little more than so far, but still share them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U95	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U96	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good minister! You criticized us earlier that we were hostile to the Estonian state. However, I would make a clear distinction: we are not hostile to the Estonian state, but we are hostile to the government of the Reform Party. You were also complaining about us calling all over your face in the hallway. Then I'll tell everyone to know that you've come to us to pick a fight. And as usual, when Conservatives come to pick a fight, they get punched in the face. But you mentioned earlier that the local government is a lobby for you. And of all the money stories and all the things I've called it, it seems very clear that you have a 'L'Etat, c'est moi' attitude. You're like a country. I have this question: do you think that the 11,78% that local authorities get from tax revenue is really enough to do all these things that are put on them, including the obligation to ensure proper education? Should that be the percentage? It used to be bigger, and it's allowed to be raised, but so far it hasn't been raised.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U97	Then let's start at the beginning. I came to you in the hallway, pat kindly on my shoulder and said, "Don't be so ugly about calling the state of Estonia and the Estonian Parliament." Everything you've been talking about here about the rubber stamp and whatever it was was inadequate and over the shaft. However, I attributed it to a lack of political experience and culture. I've been talking to Members of Parliament all along, but you sent me linearly into one part of the body. I certainly don't use words like that in this hallway, you did. When it comes to getting punched in the face, let's try it some other time when you're such a big promise. I am not afraid of that either, but I generally believe that it is not Parliament's function to oppose one another. Is it the municipality or the state? Is there enough money or not? The state would also be able to spend much more than it is currently spending, but the balance that has been achieved between municipalities and the state is quite optimal. We will rather improve the financing of municipalities through structural changes, including reducing their spending on the school network. This bill is also aimed at this. We are very much releasing educational costs and this is a plus for municipalities, as well as a reform. But once again, I hope that you will speak with the same passion in defending the autonomy of the local authorities during the debate on the next draft. I've been protecting it so far. I have also defended this bill, but I have made a compromise that I do not like to finish. The fact is that the programme we offer to municipalities is very generous, compared with a small step back towards a uniform investment component. In fact, this step backwards is nothing more than a step backwards before the same long step forward. The step is taken back to take a step forward in the teachers' salary. There is simply no other choice. We are discussing precisely whether concrete or brain is more important in education. I think it's a brain. We're not discussing whether the Helme family has some kind of wallet or a wallet that can always be turned on if you don't like it. If you have this tap, let's discuss it separately. I have to make choices. I know that this is taxpayers' money, and it is my duty to offer Parliament the drafts that foresee the use of this money, according to my conviction, most correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U98	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The last amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which allowed investment grants to cover the costs of support specialists, was adopted less than a year ago. In the light of today's bill, don't you think that this is still a very controversial decision that hurts the sense of justice of many?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U100	Thank you. I don't think it hurts a lot of people's sense of justice. That is an exaggerated assessment, as I once answered that question. It was a legal glitch that was made at the moment of weakness. That's what my predecessor admits. However, the long-term view of the matter is that support services are organised and financed by the local government. They must make choices, knowing well the local needs and also the opportunities to take on the market. I'm just thinking of having specialists. The state finances these support services in rural areas through the Pathfinder Centres, as has already been mentioned several times in this hall. This supply-side resource needs to be allocated according to the optimal scheme. We can't expect every school to have a specialist.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U101	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U102	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you, good minister. You said in your speech that money must be channelled into the substance, not into concrete. Please explain this. The kindergarten teacher prepares the child to attend school, the support specialist prepares the child to attend the class and to be properly trained. If a teacher encounters discipline problems, a support specialist will come to the rescue. If there are any legal disputes, the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act will be helpful. But there are two laws, private school law and basic school and upper secondary school law. How do you ensure continuity? For surgery, the patient will be prepared by medical staff, only then can he be cut. The surgeon doesn't prepare the patient. Why does a teacher have to do the work of a support specialist?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U103	Thank you. How many questions and how many topics did you fit into this minute? I don't have to guarantee everything. The functions of self-government and central authority are guaranteed by our constitution and our democratic system. I am primarily responsible for the state's part of this area and for cooperation with local governments. That's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U104	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U105	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Well, let's get this straight in public. That friendly shoulder pat in the hallway was charged that we were Russian agents. Thank you. The one we sent you to, we've just determined where you've taken the country. Nobody sent you anywhere. So we're still sharp! Here's the question. You are talking here about the fact that not concrete is important, but the content of education is important. At the same time, however, we can see that over 200 million have been planned for concrete and some millions of wage increases. Don't you see a contradiction here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U106	Thank you. I'm really starting to suspect you because only a spy can be so paranoid. I never used the word "Russian spy," but you probably have something on your mind, obviously you've been accused of it before. I've never done that before. But I admit that your claim was that the Estonian state is in this respect, I think, was so that we have turned the Estonian state there. Well, that might be the right factual explanation. But I don't think the Estonian state is where you say it is. I'm proud of this country, but I'm not proud of it. Let's try to make it even better. Did you have a question or did you just want to discuss these anatomical details? [[A question will be asked in the hall.]] Oh, thank you! I don't really see a contradiction. In one case, it is an investment programme which is largely funded by the European Union, provided that we organise the school network. For example, investments in basic schools and upper secondary schools are only allowed for the purpose of making schools and the school network more generally suitable. The investment programme for state secondary schools is also designed to ensure that we have modern upper secondary schools, that most of them are separated from primary school and that municipalities do not have to strain each one of them to have their own upper secondary school. Very good agreements have been made, for example, with the city of Tartu. Tallinn is harder, but in several counties these upper secondary schools have started working and there are practically agreements with several. This is money that cannot be paid for wages, but national tax money can be paid for salaries. The European Union's investment programme is aimed at reform of the school network; this money cannot be paid as a salary for teachers. However, teachers can pay money to paint walls, for example. Such things should not really be organized from Toompea.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U107	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Minister Jürgen Ligi has told us all sorts of nice things in this remote area today. One of them is that the Minister no longer has to deal with everything about education. So far, ministers were responsible for all the content, and now there is only one piece of work that has been mentioned as a function of the state. I guess we'll get to that debate someday. Today we are essentially discussing two issues. The first question is that the local government is being taken away from this last political influence, the partial money that the school receives about a child. The second aspect we are talking about is that we are once again firing down support services, despite the fact that a year ago local authorities were offered the possibility that the state would take this responsibility away. How do you solve these two problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U109	However, the big question is whether local governments or, I am sorry, whether the opposition has the tap by which it keeps turning money, or whether we are still dealing with the best use of taxpayers' money. In my opinion, this best use is to raise teachers' salaries and contribute to the quality of education, not to forcefully maintain a large school network. The decisions of the school network are to be left to the municipalities, but we will also make decisions on this in the case of investment programmes only with the municipalities. This is no solo of the Minister of Education. I am extremely sorry if there is some false sentence in the introductions to your questions over and over again. I have not said anything about not having to deal with this or that in education. Even the investment issue concerns me, even the support services. But I'm not gonna interfere, I'm not gonna take away the authority of the local governments to decide or run things at a school. There is nothing impartial about this investment component. The investment programme is just as neutral. There are no biased choices here, there are cooperation with local governments and difficult choices here. What kind of school remains, where to build a state gymnasium, what kind of basic school network we will have in the future, what a future elementary school in a particular area of the region is all a matter of difficult professional choices, not of some sort of biased sovereign political decision-making by the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U110	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It's a pleasure to listen to your performance. Everyone's stupid, they're quoting you wrong, they don't understand, and the previous minister's actions are culled. I'll come back to the same thing again. Neither the draft with which you have come before us nor the draft state budget were coordinated by the association of rural governments, the union of cities, let alone other associations. When it comes to failure, do you think your successor, whoever he is, doesn't claim that this bill is a failure? Your descendants don't come up with that, do they?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U112	Thank you. I hope that these descendants are not the kind who will simply lie in the introductory part of their speeches. I have not called my predecessor's work a cull. I called the legislative cull one particular thing that was a compromise that my predecessor no longer endorses. He wasn't happy about it then either, but he just saw that somehow he had to go on with the basic school and upper secondary school law. If I'm not mistaken, it was one of the details of the big bill. In essence, he has never approved it; he has never thought that the state should take all the support staff on its payroll. In this sense, Jevgeni Ossinovski and I have been very unanimous, we should not be opposed. Will I ever be called a cull? It will certainly be mentioned if the same atmosphere persists that the future Minister of Education can simply disparage and deny in this Chamber, rather than argue the choices made on the drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U113	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Such an effective use of public money has been seen, for example, in the area of internal security: policemen's wages were raised by taking appropriate means to make populist promises and to comply with them. This has led to the collapse of the police system, lack of police officers, reduced security, increased risk. Aren't you afraid that a similar situation might arise in the education system if you take some money from somewhere and shift it to another place, but the result is a collapse of the system?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U115	Thank you. I do not think that this issue has added anything substantive to the debate; it is not a matter of today's draft. This bill talks about the teacher's pay over concrete. Tell me if you're for it or not! You guys are always talking about you having a tap somewhere where you can always get more money. And I still have to protect the area of internal security. In Estonia, crime has fallen at a high rate; these figures are even amazing. At the same time, police wages have also increased significantly faster than wages in general. It's been our choice, and it's also been a police choice. I wouldn't dare criticize that. I think that's a good tendency. Exactly how many cops are needed, it's not up to me to say, I don't know the right number, but it seems to me that the police department is making good decisions, and it has good results.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U116	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Here, Tartu was also mentioned and in this context, as if the Ministry were, well, the Ministry is partly there, and the local government agrees on the proposed measure. At the same time, I know that the content of a specific draft has been discussed very seriously in the Tartu City Council and in the City Government, and it has been found that it does not take the reality into account, is propaganda, not analytical. The draft seeks to prove that the arguments put forward are correct, that we are doing state secondary school, and that the local government is freed up some resources, while it is known that the establishment of the state secondary school of Tamme does not deprive the municipality of the cost of maintaining the school of Tamme. And what is particularly important: the current draft breaks down consistency. The city or any other municipality must assume obligations which can only be covered by the investment measure. There is a feeling that reform is being made because of reform. Have they approached you and expressed their discontent?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U118	Thank you. They have sent an extremely mediocre letter, which also reached the media. In this they have expressed their dissatisfaction. When I read this letter, I had the feeling that a little Villu Reiljan seemed to have slipped into Tartu City Hall. The fact that the state does not respect the local governments, that the state does not respect anyone at all reminds me of my first day in the Riigikogu in 1995 when someone spooked in line for a coffee shop. I looked over my shoulder, one was Villu Reiljan, and the other was his party companion. It was really weird for me to listen to this, but after I got used to coming up with statements like this, there's gonna be such a contrast to everything the government's gonna do to keep the country going. However, I have received feedback from the same Tartu City Government that in fact they have an important investment programme offered with European Union money. As an example of Tartu, I have also done calculations (I do not have them with me in this remote control) how much the state has taken up the cost of maintaining schools, how much the state has invested in the same basic school in Tamme, how much it has invested in upper secondary school, how much the operating costs of the upper secondary school are. To be honest, it's completely marginal. The investment component in the city of Tartu is 229938. That number's in my way. But they're much bigger than the others. These are variations in magnitude. That's the very average amount. If we spend 15 million on the municipal school network when launching investment programmes next year, the investment component 2.6 is already more than five times smaller. But from now on, the investment will be over 40 million and the investment component will vary by about 15 times. In this sense, this has been a rather trivial argument, and I am still taking this treasure conversation very seriously. The representative of Tartu was also at the table in the spring when we talked about channelling this investment component into teachers' wages, and there was no opposition. But, of course, it is easy to get rough letters when the group's interest is focused on just one point and not on the big undertaking that we do together with the municipalities. We do not have to agree on everything with each category, but in a big picture, in promoting the school network, we have reached a consensus. They're not happy with these investment programs, but they're happy with them. They attach little importance to this small component and also recognise that teachers' pay is more important for the quality of education than painting the walls.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U119	It's interesting that we've almost reached anonymous sources of online portals. The views of all those who have publicly expressed their differences of opinion you reject by referring to the alleged debates on costs. It would be very nice if these people also came to the Committee on Culture and explained why they strongly support the withdrawal of their investment support. You say this amount is marginal. We'll take one middle school, that's 8,000 euros, 10,000 euros for the average school. I mean, in places like the average school, where these investment funds are naturally not going to come. I am talking about those areas where the number of children is increasing, these are the places where we have to find room for 40-50 new class sets next year. My question is: how do you interpret the fact that everyone who appears in public under his own name is against this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U120	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U121	Thank you. None of them appear on their own behalf, all of them acting as a lobbyist who is willing to leave every single issue as a single issue. However, the investment component is not a single issue in itself, but linked to the investment programme. That's what I've said here many times. I think the last time I spoke on this matter was the representative of the Cities Union, your party partner, who claimed in ETV that this money was urgently needed for co-financing and that this investment programme requires co-financing. The reality is that we in the comprehensive school programme rather do not require co-financing at all, and that is the extra money for basic schools. The programme of state secondary schools, however, is done in accordance with the local governments. If they put that knowledge into this context, they wouldn't write such rough letters. This lack of coordination is not unexpected. They would also be willing to keep these 2.5 million in addition to the 2.5 hundred they will receive in six years. In this sense, these views are to be expected. But decisions in the country still need to be made. And please come here and tell me that you are not in favour of raising teachers' salaries, you would like the municipality to paint existing schools without reforming the school network.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, As a member of the Committee on Culture, I have only received a letter from the Mayor of Tartu, Urmas Klaas, announcing that these legislative changes are not being coordinated. I'm asking you if you have another letter that is extremely mediocre and refers to Villu Reiljan. I didn't get the clue, I'm telling you the truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U123	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U124	Thank you. I understood what I said. I said it consciously. I don't think Urmas Glass, looking me in the eye like he looked in the spring when we were discussing this subject, would put something like that on paper. The fact that the state does not respect local governments is very much like what Mr Reiljan said. This does not indicate whether this decision is structurally good or not, whether teachers' pay is preferable to concrete or not. This talk is a very clear expression of the interest of one of the interest groups, or local governments. And this, as expected, is a much-expected position, but not as passionate as it received on that paper. For example, in five years' time, if we were to analyse investments in the city of Tartu, we would see that the eyes of the mayor of Tartu are quite different from those of this letter. On the other hand, much of the investments and cost savings made in Tartu are already a reality. The city has already received the upper secondary school, and the investments at the Tamme School and Emajõe School have already received it. They have had huge savings because of this repair alone, but they have also had clear savings because they no longer have to cover the maintenance costs of their upper secondary school, the Tartu Tamme Gymnasium. According to my memory, this annual economic cost is higher than that investment component, or at least in the same order of magnitude. Tartu has definitely won a great deal. Those municipalities that are too small to keep their school network in their full suite feel worse. They really need to approach the problem more regionally. This is the task of the state to look at the school network more regionally. We also look at the VET network in a much larger region than the county, not to mention that we look at the school network more widely than there is a municipality. Each rural municipality elder knows that they are in a very poor position if they do not look at the larger picture and even try to keep the existing school network available for the smaller number of children. This is part of a reform where not all changes are pleasant, but I believe that there is still so much statesmanship in every single parent that he understands why the state is doing so today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U125	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U126	Thank you. Dear Jürgen Ligi! I understand that you are now explaining that the investment component must be taken away from the municipalities in order to find 1.5% of the missing track rise fund for teachers to raise their salaries. Last week we discussed the budget for the coming year in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. The Centre Party Group has proposed to find 6.3 million to cover the commitment made to teachers. The Treasury Department official said there's no problem, you actually have the money, you don't have to make any cuts. I'm not asking who's right. I ask what prevented you and the Ministry of Finance from drawing up the budget for next year in such a way as not to have to make such cuts. Why was the budget not immediately planned to raise teachers' salaries?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U127	Thank you. Nothing stopped me. I made these proposals, but the Ministry of Finance has developed a little different routine than it was when I was there. The fact that accountants calculate some sort of minimal cost and do not follow the political preferences that the government has made in its programmes is a new situation for me. However, let us turn away from this issue. My main responsibility is to spend the resources that education has at its best. The fact that money is simply poured on some bad system is really not in line with my mission. I don't want so-called stupid money in my budget, I don't want stupid spending. But there are a lot of foolish costs on the school network, even though smarter costs are incurred and should be preferred.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U128	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U129	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You clearly underestimate the share of the investment component in the local government budget. When I was mayor, we always used this investment component to increase the computer park, to acquire the inventory of the physics and chemistry office, and so on. You're saying that these big concrete castings come without co-financing, but where does the municipality find the money to make smaller investments?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U130	Thank you! Neither is the municipality so weak that it would not be able to make any smaller investments. But once again, we're not taking any money away from anyone, we're changing purpose. We believe that local government teachers should receive a higher salary, that is the purpose of this draft. We're not taking that money away. Education support is increasing, not decreasing. Once again: education support is growing, just one cell is getting smaller there.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U131	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U132	Dear Minister, I just feel the need for a collegial solidarity with the Mayor of Tartu, Urmas Klaas. If the head of a local government or someone else makes a statement, taking into account the city's development plans, other plans and decisions taken by the council, it is certainly not a confrontation with one minister or government, but simply a stand-up for one's own affairs. In this respect, a free statement of opinion is certainly welcome. It must also be said that the associations of local governments as a whole, not only Urmas Klaas, but also many others, have signalled that they are not actually satisfied with this draft. At the same time, I do not want to say that investment is more important than a person; I just want to draw attention to this attitude. Can local authorities, however, express their opinion or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U133	Thank you. That's their duty. And I also said that this letter from the city of Tartu stood up for its own business. But I would like us to stand together for a common thing, which is Estonian education, and not blame each other for saying that we do not respect each other. In my opinion, the wording of this letter was not respectful of a common goal, which is an up-to-date school network and an motivated teacher. It's our thing. A category can be taken as a completely neutral word, but it was clearly a letter from a category in an eviler language than it could have been. At the same time, I have spoken face to face with my own rulers, and I know that their greater group interest than this 2.6 million large gang is actually getting school investments, and our opinions are one hundred percent consistent. And that's what we're working with the local governments for.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U134	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U135	Thank you to the manager. Good minister! Urmas Sukles, reformist party of the mayor of Haapsalu, has also claimed that the current change comes at the expense of the learning environment. Has he misunderstood anything? What can I tell him?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U136	Thank you. If he considers existing painting and fusing to be a learning environment, he probably will. I'm not very familiar with Haapsalu's school network, I just haven't had to. But we are doing the same kind of investment to make the learning environment the best of what we can think about. However, the aim is not to maintain what is available at all costs, but to raise the pay of teachers and provide the best school environment. Again, with a little too little grip, these views concern only one article. The actual annual expenditure on the school network is much, much higher. There is no need to stand so hot for this wall painting money if the alternative is to raise teachers' salaries.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U137	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U138	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! It has become quite clear in this Chamber today that this bill is another bill that divides society. If even the founding members and other pillars of your party are opposed to these proposals, not to mention the representatives of local governments, not to mention the parents of private schools and children studying in private schools, then it is not moral to cross them again by road roll and to use the government as a rubber stamp. Don't you think the government should withdraw this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U139	Thank you. Private schools have not opposed this bill; they would very much like to raise teachers' salaries. It does not matter whether this money becomes an investment component or a salary for teachers, because they want to pay teachers a higher salary and they get that money. This bill will not reduce support for them. As far as division is concerned, it's your choice. If you're always imagining yourself as a rubber stamp and avoiding the substantive debate, that's the kind of splitting attitude. But you're not comparing alternatives, you're not talking about school network reform. You're just blaming and looking for a fight. It doesn't satisfy me, and I don't agree with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U140	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Ladies and gentlemen, before we go to the report of the representative of the Committee on Culture, we have to vote because the Committee on Legal Affairs has proposed to extend the working time of today's sitting of the Riigikogu until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Let's get to that vote. I'm sorry! Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U141	I had a wish for words before the vote was announced. Before the vote on behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, I ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U142	Ladies and gentlemen, You're too late. Your name wasn't on the board before I called you. [[There's a statement in the hall that the name was on the board.]] No, there was no name on the tablet. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs to extend the working time of today's plenary session of the Riigikogu until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. 50 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 25 against and 5 abstentions. The proposal was supported, today's working hours have been extended. Let's keep going. For the presentation of the Committee on Culture, please refer to Laine Randjärve, Chairman of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U143	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U144	Colleagues, the hearing will continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U145	The Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act and the Private Schools Act (140 SE) on 16 November. The draft was discussed at two meetings of the Committee on Culture. On 16 November, the Minister for Education and Science presented the draft as a representative of the Government in the Committee on Culture. Minister Ligi explained that according to the draft, the increase in the pay of teachers will be prioritised as a priority for public education support. On average, according to the draft, an investment component of approximately 2.6 million euros from education support will be devoted to the increase in teachers' pay. The members of the Committee on Culture also received information on the amount planned for the organisation of the school network, which is expected to amount to an average of EUR 40 million per year for the next six years. Since the current law allows, where necessary, the remuneration of support specialists for the investment component to be paid, such as psychologists, logos and social pedagogues, several members of the Commission also asked questions about this. Laine Randjärv and Mailis Reps' questions about the future funding of support specialists were answered that the function of municipalities is to ensure the organisation of support services and to cover their costs, as the local government is responsible for the organisation of schools on the ground. The question asked by Mailis Reps about the availability of e-learning assets and the loss of investment support was answered by the Ministry of Education and Research investing free of charge in educational assets that are available to everyone. Nearly explained that the state provides the content of the education and the local government guarantees the environment. Krista Aru's question of how the local governments' protest on the abolition of the investment component is to be resolved was answered that cooperation in the organisation of the school network should be developed. It is claimed that municipalities are interested in the operation of larger investment projects and not in such a small investment component as to make investments impossible. It was found that the municipalities are interested in cost savings and high-quality schools. Krista Aru, Märt Sults, Yoko Alender and Mailis Reps questions about the availability of support specialists' services and the Pathfinder centres were answered that these centres were created to ensure the capacity of local authorities. Kalle Muuli's question as to whether the abolition of investment aid relating to long-term investments would not lead to legal proceedings regarding the infringement of legitimate expectations due to the short period of entry into force of the law was answered that, on the basis of the analysis by the Chancellor of Justice, there was no problem from the point of view of the Constitution. The question asked by Mailis Reps whether the basic school and upper secondary school law intended to reduce the local government's responsibilities to meet the individual needs of students was that the organisation of education for children with a more educational special needs would be taken up to the state by 2020. In order to support children with a lighter special educational needs, Rajasidja centres have been set up and local government tasks are sought to support the central service provision. No decision was taken on the draft at the meeting on 16 November. However, the Committee on Culture decided to hold meetings and discussions with representatives of local self-government associations on the draft in order to listen to the views of the other party on this issue. To be honest, the general mood in the Committee on Culture must also be described. The funding options for support professionals were the most explored. This concern was at the heart of almost all the members of the Committee on Culture. Support specialists are just as worried about educators, so maybe we should discuss in the future whether the social pedagogue and logo pedals and psychologists could be valued equally with the pedagogical staff. Increasingly, there is a world of practice that experts or, let's say, professionals teach subjects. There is an increasing need for support services on the ground. It seems that the central service provided by the centres may not always help; it is increasingly needed. This attitude remained dominant in the Committee on Culture as a whole. At its meeting on 17 November, the Commission took procedural decisions on the draft. It was decided by consensus to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 24 November and to appoint Laine Randjärv, President of the Commission as the Commission's representative. When the proposal was put to the vote to close the first reading, it received 5 votes in favour and 5 votes against in the Commission, which is why the proposal was not supported and the Commission's proposal is to reject the draft at first reading. However, if the first reading of the draft is completed, the Commission shall ask for ten working days to be fixed for the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U146	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U147	Thank you. Dear Laine Randjärv! We have just heard Jürgen Ligi say that municipalities should be happy to have such an investment component taken away, that it is in their own interests. However, the city of Tartu, where you are also from and where you have been mayor, says that it is unfair. Would you present the views of the City of Tartu as to why the withdrawal of the investment component does not make them happy?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U148	Thank you. I can present my personal views. Unfortunately, I cannot speak on behalf of the city of Tartu, because I am neither a member of the council nor a member of the government. It is difficult to comment on what the city of Tartu wanted to say in its letter or what Urmas Klaas thought. However, I think that it would rather be a happy opportunity to overcome more investment in the euro, which is planned for this purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U149	Thank you. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U150	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. My colleague, I will ask you what I asked the Minister before. There was also talk about this yesterday in the Committee on Culture. Do you think that the 11,78% of the income tax receipts to local governments is sufficient to enable local authorities to fulfil the obligations imposed on them? These obligations are, in my opinion, the greatest in the social and educational fields.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U151	I'd say there's never enough money. It always seems that ideas are more than money.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U152	Thank you. No further questions for you. We are going to the negotiations of the representatives of the political groups. Lauri Luik, Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U153	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The idea of this draft is, in my view, commendable: to raise teachers' salaries by channelling EUR 2.6 million, which is part of the current investment component, to the teachers' payroll fund, which will enable us to move towards our goal by initially increasing teachers' salaries by about 1.4%. This means, however, that in the future, the staff costs allowance of the schoolmaster can only be used to compensate teachers for their work. This money can no longer be used to repair a school building or, for example, to pay for the work of support specialists. As a reminder, the investment component was originally designed as part of a national programme to encourage school reconstruction. Unfortunately, the amounts of the investment component have fallen drastically over the past six years from EUR 16 million to EUR 2.6 million so that they have largely lost their original target. The draft provides an alternative to the investment component of the European Structural Funds for the next 5 to 6 years with a total of just over EUR 240 million, for which either they can reconstruct their schools in the context of the organisation of the school network, pay for continuing training for teachers and school leaders, or develop digital learning resources. However, there are some aspects of this noble final draft that I would like to draw attention to here. First of all, the Estonian Association of Cities, the Estonian Association of Rural Governments and the Estonian Association of Private General Education Schools do not support the draft. In particular, they have pointed out that a disproportionately short period of time had been left for amendments and for their opinion to be published. However, we do want to know what the opinion of these parties is, and therefore, I do not believe that such a procedure can be accepted. The second is that several local authorities argue that they have legitimate expectations regarding the investment component, since they have in their time taken out loans and repaired their school homes for this money. They have a legitimate expectation that the supporting investment component will not disappear. The third is that, according to the local authorities, more than half of the European Union's funds that we have foreseen will go to repair state secondary schools, develop HEV schools and organise state vocational training institutions. Circa 100 million will be left to those basic schools that can be repaired. It is also stressed that 15% of the local governments' own funding is also needed in this case. As a result, a few proposals. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U154	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U155	These parties must certainly be actively involved in the Commission's discussions in order to find out what their specific proposals are. They must be heard and, if possible, taken into account as much as possible. As a compromise proposal, it is worth considering the possibility of allowing local authorities to use the rest of the money either for the renovation of school premises, for the payment of salaries to support staff or for any other necessary undertaking in the event of overpayment of resources. In this context, the question of trust is, in my view, of paramount importance. We must show the local governments that we trust them that we need them to be competent to decide for ourselves what to do when the pay of teachers is guaranteed. Although the State plans to support large-scale investments from EU funds, the Commission should still look for ways to enable local authorities to apply for additional funds to support smaller investments. In all of this, I also think it is important to stress that we need to look at the longer term, because the European Union's money is known to be used during a certain period. What happens in the long term to our municipalities and the opportunities for these investments should be addressed today. To sum it up. The aim of this draft, as I have emphasised many times, is to raise the pay of teachers. This is a noble objective and a goal, both in the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic and in the Lifelong Learning Strategy. There is certainly a need to move forward on this issue, the pay of teachers must be increased, but this must be done in constructive cooperation with our local authorities. I very much hope that local authorities and relevant organisations will be even more actively involved in this process. Good luck for all of us, especially the Committee on Culture! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U156	Thank you. Mailis Reps from the Centre Party Group, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U157	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Let it be noted first that, clearly, Jürgen Ligi was no longer able to participate in the debate. Well, that's a sign, isn't it? I will begin, if you will allow, with the words just said by Jürgen Ligi, that he does not have to guarantee and do everything, he has a national part to do. That is exactly what we are discussing here today, that the Minister is taking the debate on the use of money in such a way that it does not matter what we are collecting money for, as long as what the Minister considers today as a priority, i.e. an increase in the pay of teachers, even though only a little over 1%, is done. So, what are we discussing today? There are two fundamental questions and they are both blurred in the round of questions and answers. The main discussion has been, as the Minister repeatedly emphasised, which is more important, either brains or concrete. Another topic for discussion is how to use support services. Now in order of both. The question arose whether the fact that local authorities, the association of rural municipalities and cities and representatives of private schools did not coordinate the draft does not mean anything to us. The Minister said he shouldn't waste time, that then the state will stop, and he will have to decide. Today, the Minister has decided that EUR 2.6 million of investment money must be taken away from local authorities, and that it must be transferred to the teachers' payroll fund. A little over 1% gets a raise, but that'll help. The argument that European money will come is contradicted here. As previous speaker Lauri Luik has already said, there will only be 100 million in comprehensive school funding. And it should be stressed here that this money is only available to those who the Minister of Education and Research decides to support. Maybe then the system will come back, which is why once the public investment programme Res Publica was re-directed into an investment component. Once again, money will be distributed on the basis of the discretionary and political will of one or two people. This is why the investment component came into being, that every school, no matter what, is small or large, can even have a small amount of money to take into account every year that it can plan how much it does in the school house, which walls it paints. The painting of the walls has earned a lot of condemnation here. It should also be taken into account that, according to the next investment plan, the money will only be given to local authorities which show that they are tightening up the school network. It's so happy to watch next year. Yes, there are times when the school network is tightened, but there are a lot of municipalities facing a situation where they have many children relocated. In Harjumaa and Tartu municipality, we need to seriously discuss how to open new class kits if we do not want to open third shifts again. And these schools aren't gonna get any money from the next investment plan because they're not gonna show them how to tighten up the school network. Little has been said today that the investment component will also be taken away from private schools, where nothing will be replaced. Indeed, they also opposed the loss of the investment component. But an even more important aspect is that just a little while ago, the Minister explained that this was one mistake. Minister Ossinovski made a mistake, misdirected the matter to the Riigikogu and made a small change in the investment component. What did the previous Riigikogu actually decide? First, the new Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which required the state and local authorities as schoolkeepers, as well as private schools, to deal with special needs of children, whether individually, in small classes, in support services, etc. Local authorities also had new obligations on which the municipalities asked how they would be financed. A new requirement was the help of a social pedagogue. At this point, it was proposed that a one-off grant of just under three million would be granted. Once a grant was granted, another grant was granted, then the time came when the minister had changed. Jevgeni Ossinovski became the new minister, and he was asked that a few times the money was given, so what happens now? This money was no longer available; all available resources were decided to direct teachers to the payroll fund. And the minister suggested that we introduce an investment component. So all this talk, that there is a contrast between investment in brains, is, to put it mildly, wrong. In fact, for the first time in the composition of the Riigikogu, support services for teachers' payroll are opposed for the first time, but for the fourth time in the history of the Riigikogu. It's like there are teachers and there's some kind of company in the teachers' room who aren't like teachers who are logopaedics, social pedagogues, school psychologists, and special educators. We will add to them the unhappy choir leaders and nature circle managers who sometimes go through the schoolhouse. Unless they get to be nature teachers, but they're from a community school that gives around hours, it's like they're not supposed to come into the teachers' room. Look, we've had a tradition for over 20 years that they're all teachers. They're all teachers! In reality, however, the fact that a technical change was made to the PGS, that there were teachers and there were teachers meant that only one small segment was financed by the state and that others were not a thing. In fact, with today's and tomorrow's vote and the adoption of the law, we are saying once again that support services are not necessary. But they're very necessary. The compromise is firstly that I very much support the position of the Committee on Culture not to end this first reading and to send this draft back to the Government of the Republic for discussion. If the Commission's proposal should not find support in this Chamber, I very much ask that we at least open up the payroll fund so that the local authority can continue to decide that the remuneration for support services is part of the payroll fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U158	Thank you. Martin Helme, Estonian Conservative People's Party, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U159	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mailis Reps spoke very accurately and very well about the content of the problem. I'd like to talk a little bit more general philosophy. Minister Ligi accused us of messing with the wrong bill. Maybe. But we are at all bullying about how education is promoted in Estonia and how the country is governed. This is a major problem in our eyes and you have heard where we believe the Estonian state has come to. It also sounded like if everyone else seems stupid, maybe there's still a problem. Turns out people don't know what they want and what they've said or written. Everything they've written actually means something other than what they put on paper. This attitude is, of course, symptomatic for this government, and especially for the Minister who has just been on the table. I am particularly puzzled by the way in which all other costs of funding education are opposed to teachers' salaries. It's just not correct. Imagine that only this is public money, moved by Jürgen Ligi or the Ministry of Education, is not correct. In the context of this whole debate, and also in the context of this debate, which comes around the financing of private schools, the view is that local authorities are a lobby, as Jürgen Ligi said. Everyone else is a lobby, but the country, it's her. This is not the right way to organise things in society. What's the argument now? It is a clear objective to seize as many cash flows as possible in the hands of the Ministry of Education, in the narrowest possible circle. And as much as possible of the costs that are ideologically irrelevant or over which control cannot be imposed, the use of which cannot be administered by the Minister of Education, it is intended to impose on the municipalities. Municipalities have been left with the same 11,78%, but at the same time they are always being left with obligations. And then we hear from the representative of the Reform Party that we have a pretty good balance. There is no balance here! The money is never enough. However, I would point out that, in comparison with the European Union, we love to compare ourselves with other countries in the European Union and with average figures, the percentage of Estonia's GDP goes to education in a completely polite manner. With our educational costs, we are above the EU average. But our problem is that schools are being shut down in rural areas. This reform of the "school network" is no one hiding that it is a euphemism for closing schools. What is particularly silly is that at the same time new schools are being built, new state secondary schools are being built. Why are state secondary schools being re-established? For the same reason that flows of money, wage policy, human resources policy and what is taught and taught would not be to decide on a local government or a private initiative, but to clearly manage the ministry. At one end, we lock up schools, at the other end, we build scary little new schools. In fact, the state upper secondary schools, which are built for huge money, are overdimendated. There are already built and there are still construction schools that do not come full of students. Specifically, you can give examples of Valga and Põlva. As the wise book says, money is the root of all evil. This evil root must be clearly in the hands of the Ministry according to the logic of the current government. It is not a civil society; it is not a school network that is competitive in the long term. This is not a pleasant, good and productive environment for children, parents and teachers. The whole war that's been here doesn't just go around one decimal place or another. Anyone who gets through this thing and gets into it will realize that this is about keeping the purse irons as strictly as possible in the hands of the Minister. And that's not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U160	Thank you. Krista Aru, the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U161	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! I am very pleased, as a representative of the Free Party Group, with the clear, concise and meaningful presentation of Mailis Reps, which gave a complete picture of this whole complex issue. At the same time, I want to enter into our debate today from another rate. The teacher has to get a decent salary. We are all very much in agreement with this, and we also believe that so far the problem has not been solved. We can ask why. So where's the reason for all these troubles if we all really want it and think it's right? Where's the glitch? I think it is all the worse that there are several reasons for this, but the main reason is that, over the years, the need for undefined education for society, the functions and meaning of different levels of education and the changing situation of the entire school network have remained undefined. A teacher doesn't just have to get paid. Teachers must also have their authority and their legal status must improve in society. This cannot be achieved only by giving more wages. Indeed, pay is one of the most important factors, but what makes society feel first and foremost is that teacher status, teacher speech, and payability are not what is needed. And it's been that way for too long. But it's not just about teachers. Perhaps we have a wholesome pursuit of society too little for something bigger, higher and better? This is the case for businesses, farmers and representatives of other agencies, including scientists. There is a lack of society's own great holistic concept of development. And here I'm going to give you a return to Oskar Loorits, our folk poet, who has very cleverly said that perhaps the Estonian nature has such a Finno-Ugric forest longing that I will sit alone under the bush so long and pass until there is a bigger wolf pack or better, the bigger prey of the hunt and then everyone will rise together and move towards one goal. Maybe it is. The bill before us today is very noble in principle. The goal is right, noble and necessary: to raise the teacher's salary. But the teaching profession is so dignified in nature that we must not create major social contradictions in order to raise the teacher's salary. We must not oppose one side to the other. We are talking here today that teacher's pay is important, but support specialists, like, are not important. We must not allow such an approach! We must also not agree that the voice, opinion, views of local governments are not being heard. Because if we don't go the same way with the local governments, the small Estonian state will find it very difficult in every area. The teacher's salary must be raised, but where can we find the money needed to do so if it cannot come from the source the Minister offered? 1.4%, or 2.6 million, to be used to raise teachers' salaries, listen, this is ridiculous! It could be taken calmly from the government reserve fund. Let's be honest, it's a matter of priorities. Looking at the government's actions, it is clear that money is always found when an order comes from Brussels. We are not under anyone's command; we are still an independent Estonian state. We must value our people, and these priorities must be based on us and our own people. The teacher's salary must be raised, but it must be raised with dignity, so that the teacher feels good about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U162	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft 140 at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on this proposal. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U163	The Conservative People's Party Group wants a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U164	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U165	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 36 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 50 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. First reading of bill 140 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 10 working days, including 8 December at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on today's second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U166	We will go to the third item on the agenda: members of the Riigikogu Ain Lutsep, Aivar Sõerdi, Andrei Novikov, Andres Ammas, Andres Anvelt, Anne Sulling, Ants Laaneots, Arno Silla, Artur Talvik, Deniss Borodichi, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Eerik-Niles Krossi, Enn Frontland, Heidy Purga, Helmen Küti, Henn Põllja, Henn Põlljala, Laine Randjärve, Lauri Luige, Liina Kersna, Madis Milling, Maire Aunaste, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Maris Lauri, Mark Soosaare, Mart Helika Helme, Martin Helme, Mälisti Mäel, Mäelki Mäel, Märjei Hämmoli. Please waitress Vilja Savisaar-Toomasti, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U167	Mr. Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, Before I introduce you to the draft decision of the Riigikogu, which is relatively short and specific, consists of only five points, I would like to look at the subject a little more broadly and more substantively, i.e. to give you an overview of the situation of HIV and drug addiction in Estonia. In Estonia, HIV infection was diagnosed for the first time in 1988 and the number of infections remained low for the first ten years. The infection mainly spread sexually, initially among homosexuals and later both homosexuals and heterosexuals. A total of 96 HIV cases were diagnosed between 1988 and 1999, and the first AIDS patient died in Estonia in 1992. In the second half of 2000, the HIV epidemic began among injecting drug users, at first in Narva and elsewhere in Ida-Viru County, in 2001 in Tallinn as well. This led to a diagnosis of 28,5 cases in 2000 and 108 cases per 100000 inhabitants in 2001. Since then, the number of new cases has slowed down, but remains at a high level. We are at the forefront of new cases of HIV infection, with 24.5 cases per 100000 inhabitants in Europe. In Europe, this number is on average 6 and, for example, in Finland, only 4. As of 20 November, 240 new HIV cases have been registered this year. In Narva, however, one in ten people aged 15 to 59 are HIV positive, as confirmed by Narva's city doctor. Above all, the increase in the number of new cases has slowed down thanks to the syringe exchange programme, which, I recall, also began in the early 2000s and helped in many ways to establish syringe exchange points. And this serious issue for society was raised by Nelli Kalikova, who set up a committee on HIV/AIDS prevention in the Riigikogu in 2003. To date, the profile of HIV infected people has changed. Studies show that the rapid spread among young people, i.e. those aged 15 to 24 years, has decreased and mostly a heterosexual person over 30 years of age is infected. It should also be noted that the proportion of women in both young people and those over the age of 30 has increased, accounting for 40% of all new infections. In total, according to the Estonian Society of Infectionists, as of 20 November 2015, there are 9233 HIV-positive people in Estonia, 452 of whom have been diagnosed with AIDS. It is estimated that this number is even higher, as at least one third of cases people do not know that they are infected with HIV. Now a brief overview of the state of drug addiction. The widespread spread of drug use in Estonia started in 1994-1995. During those years, the main drug was poppy fluid injected. Between 1999 and 2000, poppy fluid replaced heroin and since 2002 synthetic opiate fentanyl replaced heroin. It is believed that all opiates in Estonia have crossed the border from poppy fluid to fentanyl from Russia. It is not clear why fentanyl has not spread to other parts of the world. It is well known that every batch of opiates that arrived on the Estonian market has been ever stronger than the previous one and has led to a wave of deaths due to overdoses. I will also bring some numbers here. In 2015, 65 people have already died due to an overdose of opiates in eight months. This figure has decreased over the years, mainly due to the launch of the naloxone programme in 2013. The profile of drug users has also changed over the years. While at the end of the 1990s the drug addict was a person speaking in Russian in 95% of cases, today the number of people speaking in Estonian has increased considerably, i.e. 35%. The proportion of women has risen from 15% to 40% over this period. The main age group has also changed: 25 to 29 years of age instead of 15 to 25. As can be seen from the above, the figures speak of a very serious situation in Estonia in terms of both drug addiction and HIV prevalence. We do not yet have clear answers to many questions as to why this is the case, and many of the decisions taken have not led to a radical solution to this situation. Both problems are addressed in Estonia within the framework of the population health development plan. In 2015, the national HIV and AIDS prevention strategy will end and a concrete action plan will need to be developed for the coming years. The population health development plan provides general guidance and is lacking in the implementation plan. The government's so-called Aids Commission has also ceased its activities. And in the Ministry of Social Affairs, 0.5 officials are involved in both matters. I believe that the establishment of the Riigikogu's problem committee for analysing and improving Estonian drug policy and HIV prevention activities is an important step to combat the HIV epidemic in Estonia and reduce the number of drug deaths. Based on the above, pursuant to § 21 of the Riigikogu Working and Rules of Procedure Act, a draft decision of the Riigikogu has been prepared, which proposes to set up a Committee on Problems in the Riigikogu to analyse and enhance Estonian drug policy and HIV prevention activities. The draft consists of five points. The first point sets out the composition of the committee, which proposes to send one member and one alternate from each political group. The second point defines the tasks of the Commission. The third section describes the Commission's rights to obtain and analyse information. The fourth point sets out the result by which the Commission is to cease its activities. The fifth point states when the Commission's mandate will end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U168	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I myself am among the initiators of this committee. Can I ask you to use official records? I contacted the deputy mayor of Narva. We know exactly that there are 2,200 infected people, or just over 3%. If we start using what women say in the sauna to argue, we won't make much progress. So 2,200, not 6,000, which would make 10% of the population. I'm asking you to use official data in the future. May I?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U170	Thank you, Mr Stalnukhin, for your comment and comment. I used Narva City Doctor's records who passed them on to us a month ago when I visited Narva. At the mayor's office in Narva, I also met a city doctor who sent us this exact information. Narva City Doctor, I'm pointing out, he's a man, and I haven't been to a women's sauna with him. I don't know this number of 2,200 infected, so I don't agree with you. I do not think this statement is correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U171	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U172	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, Some time ago, we discussed the possible creation of another committee in this Chamber, and then the rapporteur took a bit of angst at my question when I asked what it would cost us to set up such a committee. I dare ask you the same question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U173	But it is perfectly clear and understandable to everyone that the problem committee is going to cost as much as any other committee, depending on how many officials it has, of course. This is stated in the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U174	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U175	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Firstly, I would like to ask you in writing for a copy of the document with the number communicated to you by the city doctor. I trust more of the deputy mayors on this matter. But if you really do have this document, I apologise and I will continue to deal with it in Narva. And it could be that the city doctor, when he gave you false information, goes to the women's sauna.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U176	How do I respond to this comment? Of course, I'm sending you this document, and I understand, of course, that you trust Narva's deputy mayors more than Narva's city doctor. But, yeah, I'm gonna give you the slide or the material I took those numbers from.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U177	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U178	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! As I understand it, given the deadline, it is essentially a matter of establishing a hidden permanent committee. But I'm gonna ask you another question. Are you familiar with the experience of a country such as Botswana in the fight against AIDS and HIV? It is one of the world's leading powers in this area, they have a lot of experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U179	Thank you, good questioner! I'm not familiar with Botswana's experience yet, but I'm sure I can do it. If I can get this committee set up, then we can also discuss Botswana's experiences. I don't think you have to go to Botswana for that. As far as the deadline is concerned and whether he is a permanent committee, that is also what we were talking about in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In the meantime, when I examined the deadline for the completion of the operational programme, I also expressed the idea that we could discuss it. And when this implementation plan is completed within one year, we could check with the Commission and see if these changes to the operational programme work. It is likely that two years will be enough for the Commission to complete its work and draw conclusions. The deadline for amendments is, in my opinion, 4 December, on a proposal from the Commission, and if you so decide in this large Chamber. Until then, improvements can also be made on the subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U180	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U181	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, That's the question I'm asking. How do you see the results that you think could be a good achievement if the Commission reaches them in two years?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U182	Thank you. I see, above all, very concrete proposals as the result of this committee's work. First of all, how do I find it? I wouldn't dare say that all HIV positives, although this is, of course, the ideal goal of most HIV positives, are all directed to antiretroviral therapy and then maintain at least 90% of the levels. If I base the World Health Organisation target on 90/90/90, that is to say, finding 90% of all HIV-positives, keeping 90% of them on continuous antiretroviral therapy and ensuring that 90% of all patients treated with the virus are suppressed so that they are no longer dangerous to others, i.e. they will not infect others and be able to plan a family, give birth to HIV-negative children.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U183	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U184	Thank you. On the basis of your substantive report on drug addiction, it has been expressed that Estonia belongs to the "Russian' type area of drug addiction, but there is also an overlap with Western Europe, i.e. two borders run together here. But I ask about the specific nature of HIV infection, a pattern different from Europe, whether our neighbouring areas have the same degree of infection. Any word on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U185	I don't know exactly what to say about Russia. I mean, I don't know how much they're testing there. Actually, I guess the question is, they're not really testing there. And even we can't have a real HIV-positive registry, but there are infectiousists who collect and register these cases. But I can tell you that there are 17 new people in Latvia every year per 100,000 inhabitants. In Lithuania, this figure is much lower, but when we discuss it with specialists, we have come to the view that Lithuania does not carry out tests or register either, which is the real reason. We trust more the older European countries that have been involved in this for a long time and where the results of the tests are also recorded and taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U186	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, First of all, I would like to congratulate and say that I am very pleased that this important issue has been raised. And I am also very pleased that you are paying constant attention to this. My question comes from the question of Andres Ammas and the answer given to it. Since I know that the preparation has been thorough and that there has not been a comeback to hit it with a hat, I believe that you have actually analysed how much staff would be needed to achieve the objectives that have been set for this committee of concern. How many employees do you have in mind for the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U188	Thank you. I think it is enough for a couple of officials to have a committee of six who work every week. If the Commission had one or two officials to help hold weekly meetings, to communicate with those invited and to send out agendas, this would be enough to work and work on the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U189	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U190	Good President! Good waitress! This committee will work in parallel with both HIV and drug addiction. In some respects, of course, these problems coincide, and there is a so-called equal sign, but in some respects HIV and drug addiction are also 'uncommon factors'. Is the Commission's name intended to focus on this more dangerous group, which could also be infected with HIV when using drugs, or is it still trying to solve very serious problems in society, particularly the problem of drug addiction, on a wider scale?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U191	Thank you. The Commission's name is that, in fact, at the last round table, which took place on Friday, the specialists drew my attention to the fact that, if we call this a problem committee dealing with drug addiction, are we not going to stigmatise again, are we not going to create new stigmas? Time and again, these are the drug addicts we deal with in the case of HIV. At the same time, I say that when I started working on these issues, I too remained narrowly involved in the HIV issue, but when I went deep, I realized that we cannot really separate the drug addiction issue from it. And the reason is that, first of all, the HIV epidemic started just when we had an epidemic of injecting drug users. As I mentioned, it began in 2000. True, I also said that the HIV infection of injecting drug users has been reduced by syringe exchange programmes. However, treatment compliance with HIV-positive injecting drug users is very poor, which has led to social problems. Their health is poor, mostly all of them disabled pensioners and other social problems are added. At the same time, there may be HIV-positive people who are not drug addicts, but are in a situation of disability pensioners and helplessness in the labour market. So it's a wide and complex subject. There were people who said we'd get more alcohol here, but then I put my hands up. We can do it in some form, but let's set some frames. We are trying to focus on issues related to HIV and drug addiction. But I also understand that the issue of legalising cannabis has been raised in society. I also do not rule out discussing this issue in the Commission, so that such occasional positions are concluded in the press, which is why people no longer understand what is happening to us and why we are constantly talking about cannabis. If we could also form a common position in this direction at the level of the Parliament's problem committee, I think that would also be a very positive result. So we can't really deal with one thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U192	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U193	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! The subject is important, but I will ask you this question. Would it not be more reasonable if the members of the problem committee, or Riigikogu, would rather involve the agencies managed by the organisations in this field, who have more opportunities to create tools for prevention activities, to combat the consequences, to carry out campaigns? The Riigikogu is still such a recommended institution, but this area needs action, or more action. Perhaps other organisations in their day-to-day work would need more help from members of the Riigikogu, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U194	Thank you. I have understood that the Riigikogu is a legal institution that adopts both financial and legal regulations. Although this is not just the subject of the Ministry of Social Affairs, there are, as I said before, specifically 0.5 officials on HIV and 0.5 officials on the subject of drug addiction intended for the development of an implementation strategy. So I think that the Riigikogu, as a legislative body, should go to the aid of this Social Ministry official. In addition, the topic is dealt with by the Institute for Health Development, which is actually a branch of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Rather, I would say the other way round: the Riigikogu should give the executive authority specific guidelines on how to deal with this subject, not the other way round, naturally receiving information from the institutions that are involved in the matter and shaping their position on this basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U195	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U196	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, I am really glad to hear that you are well prepared to address this issue and are prepared and competent to provide comprehensive answers to all questions. I was intrigued by a statement from your report that supposedly the most dangerous drugs could come from Russia. How, then, can we explain, for example, the fact that this problem is not so serious in Latvia, where the border should be even less? Does this version come from the police and can still be true? Or do you see the proof or rejection of this hypothesis as one of the tasks of your future Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U197	Thank you. As I said in my report, it is not really clear why we have so much fentanyl. It is indeed one of the tasks of this committee, so that we can make this clear. The police have confirmed that Estonia and America are countries where fentanyl, synthetic heroin, is consumed. So, yes, we are trying to deal with this in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U198	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U199	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker! You said that it would be up to two years for the Commission to work. Is it possible to extend the duration if necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U200	I think it is possible, but to do so you probably have to come to the Riigikogu with a new draft and ask for this extension of working time. I don't really see any other way around here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U201	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U202	Good President! Good waitress! As I recall, Nelli Kalikova once had a commission that, although focused on HIV or AIDS (I don't know exactly how he was named). Have you also examined his report and, if so, how will you assess the effectiveness of this committee's work? Especially when we look at the fact that the number of people infected with HIV has actually increased in society. Did the Nelli Kalikova Commission also propose any changes to the law? Are you familiar with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U203	Thank you. The Nelli Kalikova Commission was set up in the Riigikogu in 2003 and I was also a member of the Riigikogu at the time. As I briefly mentioned in my report, it was the result of Nelli Kalikova's work that many syringe-change points were created in Estonia. This is a very concrete result, which is why we can now say that the number of new cases of HIV infection among injecting drug users has decreased. I could, of course, talk about this for a very long time. And, of course, I have been in contact with Nelli Kalikova in the preparation of this committee and I also know his contemporary views. I would also like to reply to your previous question that he too believes that drug addiction and HIV problems cannot yet be separated.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U204	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U205	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! It has been argued here that you are well aware of the issue, and I will return to Botswana again. Estonia is at the forefront of HIV infection in Europe, while Botswana is in Africa. And, as we all know, the services of Botswana's Head of State, Festus Mogae, have been very large and Parliament's role much smaller. But that's what I'm asking. Several members of your party, Eerik-Niles Kross, Yoko Alender and others, have been performing here at a cannabis protest and have promised to legitimise cannabis. So is your committee also the so-called cannabis commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U206	No, it's not the weed committee. Once again, the Reform Party is a liberal party and every person has an opinion. Opinions in the Liberal Party change, etc. So I would not like to comment on the views, attitudes and opinions of the members of our party. As far as Botswana is concerned, indeed, our Estonian infectiousists, when they go to world congresses and when this map is shown, where the prevalence of HIV is coloured, including Estonia and Africa, is always full of shame. We are at exactly the same level as Botswana in terms of HIV transmission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U207	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U208	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! If you look at the reports from the Border Guard and Customs Board, there will be either cannabis, cocaine or any other thing being confiscated wherever we come in, but there will be very few cases of white Chinese. Has it not occurred to you that white Chinese is produced in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U209	I owe an answer to this question because I really do not know whether a white Chinese is produced in Estonia. But I, too, have read a lot of press releases and newspaper articles that say that the Estonian police are also confiscating fentanyl in very large quantities. And when we think of fentanyl as strong, it doesn't have to be very large if we compare it to cannabis or real opiates.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U210	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Andre Sepa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to wait here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U211	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Committee discussed the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of a 'Trouble Committee of the Riigikogu for the analysis of Estonian drug policy and HIV prevention activities and the effectiveness of prevention activities' on 122 Tuesday, 17 November. The representative of the drafters explained that the idea of launching this draft had to be formed by infectiousists, as HIV infection is a major problem in Estonia. HIV infection continues to be one person per day in Estonia and on average there are 25 new cases of HIV infection per 100000 inhabitants per year. In Europe, this number is on average six. According to the representative, taking into account data from the Health Organisation, or WHO, it can be said that there is an HIV epidemic in Estonia. The representative of the drafters noted that, as he deepened this problem, he admitted that the issue of HIV spread cannot be addressed without taking into account drug policy and the fact that there are about 10,000 injecting drug users in Estonia, who are accompanied by people who consume drugs in other forms. Thus, the drafters considered it reasonable to set up a committee that includes not only the problem of the spread of HIV but also Estonian drug policy. The representative of the drafters also explained that the Ministry of Social Affairs has developed a population health development plan, which will run until 2020 and will address activities related to HIV prevention and drug policy in general. The members of the committee heard the explanations of the representative of the drafters and asked him questions. Interest was expressed as to whether the problem committee to be set up could also address the issue of the legalisation of cannabis, which is currently topical in society. The representative replied that this was certainly one of the issues that could be addressed by the Committee on Problems, while analysing the possible effects of cannabis. It was also asked that if, in addition to the spread of HIV, a more general study of drug addiction, there was no risk that the research would spread very widely, the main focus would disappear. According to the representative, this is not the case. He found that they were important in relation to each other. Interested in how long the work of the Trouble Committee has been planned. The representative of the drafters replied that it was currently stated in the draft that the powers of the committee to be set up would last until 1 January 2019. At the same time, it has to be admitted that if the Ministry of Social Affairs is to get more involved and develop a new development plan, then perhaps the problem committee will not be needed for more than two years. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 24 November (consensually), to propose that the first reading be closed (by 6 members of the Commission, 1 against and no abstentions), to propose a deadline for amendments. 4 December at 4 p.m. and appoint Andre Sepp (both consensually) as rapporteur in front of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-24_U212	Thank you, dear waitress. I understand the members of the Riigikogu have alarming questions, but the hours are over. Why did we keep going? Since the speaker started before two o'clock, we did not interrupt him but let him finish his speech, but it is the next day to answer the questions. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Today's session is closed. We'll proceed tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 2.04 p.m.
