ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Please, let's do the presence check! 54 members of the Riigikogu are present. The members of the government at Question Time are Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Social Protection Margus Tsahkna and Minister of Culture Indrek Saar. Yesterday, eight members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask the question, so I will give you one additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U2	The first questioner is Kadri Simson, who asks the question to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U3	Dear Taavi in the garment! This year Eesti Pank is forecasting growth in Estonia at 1.2% and next year at 2.2%. At the end of October, you attended a conference of top public service leaders in Tartu, where you said that Estonia's gross domestic product should increase by a quarter by 2018. I don't know which apples you predicted this from, but a simple calculation of the Excel table says that Estonia's economic growth should be 7.5% in the coming years to achieve this result. Is this a promise similar to your predecessor's promise to be among the richest five countries in 15 years, or do you also have three concrete steps that the government will take to boost growth?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U4	Thank you for this question and for the opportunity to emphasise that we all have cause for concern for economic growth. We must all make an effort to ensure that the steps that the government and Parliament are taking are conducive to growth and not hinder it. The biggest step the government is planning to take in the near future is to reduce labour taxes. This is already decided and directly linked to economic growth. Certainly, the reform of working capacity has become more and more topical, precisely because unemployment and more people's employment have given the economy a pretty strong boost in recent years. However, we are now in a phase where unemployment is already very low and there is no longer much economic growth to be expected from there unless we are able to include new people in the labour market in the course of the work capacity reform. I therefore see a very high potential for growth in the implementation of the labour capacity reform. In addition, it is very important that the activities of the Estonian state are dedicated to increasing the competitiveness of the economy, because only in this way will we be able to receive foreign investments to increase productivity. The state must, of course, also help to ensure that Estonian companies have even better opportunities to go to foreign markets. I have already emphasised and emphasised several times before: every minister must go abroad with business delegations to help Estonian entrepreneurs find new markets.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U5	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U6	Thank you! Dear Taavi in the garment! In its latest economic forecast, Swedbank has identified a very specific reason for our economic stagnation. I quote: 'Enterprise investment has been shrinking for the fourth quarter in a row and their share of GDP has therefore fallen to the lowest level of 20 years. ' Why will there not be new investments in Estonia if, in your opinion, one of the best tax systems in the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U7	Thank you. Estonia certainly has one of the best tax systems, but of course the economic environment is much more important. In order to be attractive to foreign investment in the future and to ensure that Estonia's economic growth continues, we must make an effort to ensure that the Estonian workforce is prepared to produce products with greater added value and even more attractive products and that we have foreign markets to deliver our products to. Then we will also be able to achieve sustainable growth. I see the role of the state primarily in supporting companies and helping to ensure that the Estonian education system provides the best possible education. What we talked about yesterday in Parliament, too, is that scientific progress should be used more than has been the case for the economy, and all these issues are increasingly topical. Those who say we have to contribute to cheap labour are wrong. Estonia does not want our competitive advantage to be cheap labour, because although it is certainly a positive factor in macroeconomic production, it still means that people's wages are low. This is not the competitive advantage we want. Rather, we are working to make it possible for us to do a "smarter job" and to ask for a higher salary. As we can see, wage growth in Estonia has been very rapid in recent years.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U8	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U9	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! According to the law adopted, excise duties on petrol will increase by 30% over three years and excise duties on diesel will increase by 34%. The rise in excise duties on fuel specifically hampers economic growth and reduces the competitiveness of companies. I'm asking if the government is going to review the excise policy. You yourself have promised here before the Riigikogu that if the neighbors do not come with the increase in excise duty, you will review it again. As we know, next year the excise duty on diesel will increase by 14% in Estonia and only 2% in Latvia. Is it not time to review the increase in excise duty and reduce the tax burden on companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U10	I don't think your information has changed much since the summer. If you would go now and visit a gas station, you would probably notice that the price of fuel in Estonia has fallen by almost a third compared to its peak, but compared to this customary level, about a quarter. If the price of fuel were Estonia's main competitive advantage, then one might think that its contribution to economic growth at this stage, where fuel is exceptionally cheap, is very large. Yet we both know that this is not the case. The Estonian economy certainly does not stand on petrol and diesel. With regard to the broader picture of this amendment, because we are taxing more harmful consumption of alcohol and tobacco in addition to fuel, we will be able to reduce labour taxes. And labour taxes, unlike fuel excise, have a very direct link to economic growth, especially growth that contributes to higher value added jobs. It must therefore be said that, since in the future we will receive more money from both fuel, tobacco and alcohol excise duties in the state budget, we can provide further tax relief for the workforce. In particular, if you are more interested in which tax is the most detrimental to economic growth, I suggest you look at the OECD analysis. From there you can see that it is the company's income tax that is most affected, then labour taxes and, at the very end, right at property taxes, it is the taxation of harmful consumption.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U12	The next question is to Mr Tsahkna, Minister for Social Protection. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The government is undergoing a number of major reforms, such as administrative reform and state reform. The aim of the state reform is to avoid duplication, strengthen governance, reduce public wage earners, fiscal transparency, etc. The 11-month government led by the previous Reform Party decided that there were two ministers in the two ministries, both in the Ministry of Social Affairs and in the MKM. The current government included the Ministry of Finance in the same list. So we have six ministers in three ministries plus councillors. As head of the IRL and, at the same time, a minister working in a "two-headed" ministry, do you think that the situation in which two ministers from different political parties are responsible for the work of one ministry has justified themselves? Should not the political level set an example in drawing up public money?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U14	Thank you, good questioner! If I look at real work and the end of the year is the time to take stock, it is good to announce that in the area of social protection, one hundred percent of the government's work plans have been completed this year. This means that we work effectively, we are able to make major decisions in principle. I would also like to thank the Riigikogu, who has shown great constructiveness in dealing with the draft Act on Social Welfare, for example! This very big reform, which has been awaited for years, concerns municipalities across Estonia and people who live in them and want to receive social welfare services. The reform has now gained the power of law. Next year, there will indeed be very major reforms in the area of social protection, the work capacity reform that the Prime Minister has already talked about, as well as a new system of aids and rehabilitation. In addition, the whole new Child Protection Act, which has been funded, will enter into force and will have a specific operational programme. If we look at a wider picture, in particular measures aimed at families with lower incomes, such as income tax exemptions for low-paid people or home allowance for families with three or more children, all decisions have been taken and developed. If you ask whether there should be one or two ministers in the ministry, my view is that a minister would be enough. But the current political agreement in the government envisages such a division of power. And I can tell you about the Ministry of Social Affairs that our cooperation with the Minister of Health and Labour is very good. This is also demonstrated by our joint process for preparing the work capacity reform. So work is done and work can be done. As long as the lives of the Estonian people get better.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U15	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U16	Thank you. Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand you think a minister would help. But let's talk about the Ministry of Social Affairs again. You two ministers have different areas, but there are quite a number of overlapping issues, even the same work capacity reform already mentioned, as well as administrative reform. On the other hand, however, there is inevitably a feeling that the so-called "two-headed" ministry is not functioning quickly because the processes are much slower than they were before. This means negotiating with a number of ministers, coordinating everything with a number of ministers, perhaps not having signatures as soon as possible. Processes are slowing down and they are apparently exhausting for both managers and officials. Ministers often have different visions. If an agreement is reached and understanding agrees, then of course there is no problem, then we can move forward quickly. The problem arises, however, when things are not seen the same way. How do you feel? You've already said you're doing well in there, but you don't seem like it from the outside.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U17	Thank you. I'll call on the inside to see how the Ministry of Social Affairs works. Indeed, if you look at what has been done and what laws will enter into force next year in the social field, then neither such major reforms will be just places for signing, but will require a great deal of work, analysis. A number of practical political decisions have been made, and I would say that the pace has been quite powerful. In the case of our cooperation, I do not know of any subject that would have stayed or lingered. Quite the opposite. I can say that I went to the Ministry on the principle that social policy must not be a policy of compassion, which is meant only once a year, while waiting for Christmas, which is the theme of this year's 'Christmas Tunnel' and where it can be donated, but is a question of the sustainability of the Estonian state and people. This is a matter of power policy, of economic sustainability, because the most important resource of the Estonian state is the people of Estonia, educated, healthy and supported. This is also the result of our economic growth. The Estonian state leaves no one behind. I can also give a practical example that we are really helping each other. I was happy to attend the opening of the second stage of the Tartu University Hospital because the Minister of Health and Labour could not go because of the duties. This is not my area of activity directly, but if necessary, we will support each other. That's the government's job.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U18	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U19	Good Minister, thank you for your answers. The subject is quite interesting.. ministerial cooperation. I am interested in how your cooperation, as Chairman of the IRL and member of the Cabinet of the Government, with the chairman of another party, as well as a member of the Cabinet of the Government, who, as we all know from the media, has put pressure on the members of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica to change their basic principles and convictions for their place in the Court of Auditors. I think it would be quite difficult to work together if we looked at it in the light of some colleagues trying to trade in world views and principles. How do you feel now, working with the government and sitting at the same table with someone who's trying to make your conviction a trade?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U20	Thank you, good questioner! This is one subject that has been discussed a lot lately. For example, very little has been said about the refugee crisis that hit the European Union in the last few weeks. In this sense, it may even be grateful that the appointment of a Member of the European Court of Auditors has become a matter of national importance. To be honest, the Estonian state has much bigger tasks, starting from what is our main goal, whether we will speak Estonian here in 50 years' time, whether we have economic well-being and whether our country is protected. The decisions on which it depends must be made daily. Of course, the world view is not being traded, and that is not what I intend to do, as I have said very clearly. But cooperation in the Republic of Estonia is governed by the principle of coalition. I think it is very good that we have different parties. If we were all thinking the same thing, we wouldn't need six political parties in this Chamber of the Riigikogu either. We have different ideas about things. As far as the current government is concerned, things are public. Everything is spoken openly and as it is, whether we like it or not. If we have a problem, they'll talk about it in public. I think this is a very nice feature of a small country north of democracy. Cooperation, as I said, is taking full advantage of the government, and so are our actions. Today, we are also taking stock in the government of this year, which has been very active.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U22	The next question is the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U23	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I was motivated by the question of a debate about the hospital system, although in another ministry, where layoffs even go to helpers. How is the Ministry of Culture planned? Are jobs made redundant from the Ministry itself, sub-offices or how? How many people go from the Ministry of Culture to being laid off in administrative reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U24	Thank you for your question. With regard to the position of the Ministry of Culture in the whole topic of administrative reform, it is certainly important for us to have a discussion about the number of people the Ministry should draw closer to the constitutional objective of ensuring the preservation of the Estonian language and culture. If we look back in our recent history, the administrative reform has often dealt with all kinds of issues, but it is not very thoroughly meaningful whether one or the other reform will give people the opportunity to be a person of culture, to be a part of cultural creation. When we look at what a person actually does with his or her time, health services are certainly vital to us. Other things, such as waste management, are equally important. But to compare the time spent by a person to participate in cultural creation in a company or in sports, sports and cultural events, it is incomparably longer than the time spent on waste management per person, for example, that is why it is important. As regards the objectives set by the Government Coalition, the calculation proposed by the Minister for Public Administration gave us a command table after the negotiations that membership should be reduced by 1.4%. I believe that this can be done in our field, and the Ministry of Culture will definitely cut its membership. In a situation where the population is falling, it is quite justified that we are reviewing the size of the public sector that serves this declining population.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U25	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U26	Dear Minister of Culture, Listening to your answer, I had an impromptu question or an idea. On the one hand, redundancy is to some extent a rotation, and any rotation is refreshing in society. But in the Republic far older than us, the French Republic, as far as I know, has such a tradition and even a law that a person who has worked as a state official remains a state official for life. From now on, if he, or rather his experience, is again needed, he will in any case be preferred in the competitions and may take the place of another civil servant. Would it make sense for us to set up something like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U27	Thanks for the idea. We have not discussed this at the Ministry of Culture, and I have not yet observed such a debate at the table of the Government. But now that the idea has been blown up, we have a chance to ask if anyone has any suggestions for development. If you look at all this string of contractions, of course you need to understand that the vast majority of those working in the public sector are not auxiliary workers or support providers. We should not finally come to the fact that the state's highly necessary specialists are being laid off and people are being recruited by another contract or purchased from some legal person in a more expensive and less high-quality way. All of this, of course, must be borne in mind. I very much hope that, if the Minister for Public Administration has presented his plan by May 2016 to move forward with the contraction of the public sector, there will indeed be substantive discussions. We should not inhibit things that we really need.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U28	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U29	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! The response was very broad that during the rapid cuts in the state sector, the University Hospital of Tartu and the Northern Estonia Regional Hospital were given a very heavy redundancy standard. Our sense of danger tells us that such a cut will harm and ridicule the plan of shrinking the public sector at all. This has also been criticised by the Auditor General, saying that analyses are needed, not quotas taken from the ceiling. What's your assessment? I would also like to remind you that in his annual report to the Riigikogu, the Auditor General also criticised the Prime Minister's institution, saying that the Prime Minister has remained the head of meetings and does not manage processes and reforms. He should be more active in expressing your positions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U31	Thank you. Well, that's why no one needs to worry that the Prime Minister is just running the meetings. Firstly, there are a number of reforms that we have undertaken and are also going to complete. It is quite certain that the Prime Minister himself intends to stand up for the reforms to be effective and well implemented. You can be sure of that. Secondly, with regard to the size of the public sector, given the working age population and compared to the private sector, the Minister of Culture has already explained why all this is needed. As a country, we must realise that the public sector cannot become a greater burden on the private sector from year to year. In order to avoid this, it is necessary to set objectives that will keep the public sector trimming and in good shape. As regards the implementation of this mandate, the Government has confirmed specific percentages on a proposal from the Minister for Public Administration. By the way, they differ from ministry to ministry about four times and are not the same for everyone. When the account of the Auditor General was interpreted as if the number of redundancies was the same for everyone, it was misinterpreted. The actual figures are the result of how much has been tightened up in the past, how much has been implemented before the reforms. As I have already said, they differ in different areas up to four times. But these are the limits that the government set. From there on, every minister has the opportunity, but also the responsibility, to find the best way to achieve the goal that he has set in his administration. Every minister has done just as well as he can. That's all I can comment on right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U32	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! The questioner does not dispute the need to cut the public sector at all. My question, however, is this: why does the government allow such papaas? Why don't you set such a pattern by setting your own example, starting with such a concentration centrally? I come back to the question of Monika Haukanõmme. He said that we have six ministers in three ministries and that it contains possible risks of conflict, especially if one ministry has the chairs of two political parties that are not particularly well-connected. Or do you have any other way of showing society a moral compass and starting with yourself? By the way, I also had this question during yesterday's debate on research policy when you were in trouble with naming the sources of cover. Perhaps there should be symbolic savings on the funding of political parties or on the central government apparatus, which would be positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U34	Thank you. We have certainly saved and will continue to make savings. This concerns the ministries and also the State Chancellery, the objectives apply to everyone. If we look at the past a little bit, it can be said that in most cases, both ministries and the State Chancellery have done all the things that are expected of the public sector in a broader sense long ago. We have no longer had so many support service providers on the payroll in most institutions for a long time, because they have been consolidated by the state. We have been able to perform the same accounting functions with fewer people. Neither Parliament nor the State Chancellery has large car bases where dozens of people used to work. All these things have led to the fact that, for example, the State Chancellery, which is directly the Prime Minister's and Government's apparatus, the number of employees has decreased over the years from around 170 to 100 people. There are some people involved in this 100 people, but, let's say, the order of magnitude is from 170 to 100. So basically, it's a lot tighter. To say now that this objective, which the Minister of Health and Labour set for hospitals, is a phobia that has somehow been passed, is not, in my opinion, quite fair to him. If the Minister set such a reduction target, he must have seen it as an opportunity to better organise the work of the large institutions. In any case, these are very large institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U35	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U36	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! We had inquiries here last week and this week, both Arto Aas and Sven Sester. It turns out, in fact, that there is no cooperation on redundancies within the government. Sven Sester said there are four ministers involved in the development of zero bureaucracy. Urmas Reinsalu is also allegedly working on a plan to cut red tape. I understand that this same redundancy plan has come from one ministry as proposed by Asa and Sester. Yes, we need to concentrate, but first we need to review the content and make it clear what the purpose is for. At the moment, there is the impression that there is no cooperation between government agencies and between ministers, and there is no leader at all, who has the vision that we could do with the administration of the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U37	Thank you. So let's think about the vision for a second. If we, as responsible politicians, realise that Estonia's working-age population is declining, we will have a few opportunities in general. First, you can ignore the problem, stick your head in the sand like an ostrich, and say, "Maybe it'll pass." Secondly, we can take concrete steps to make public service more efficient, so that we do the tasks that taxpayers and voters have placed on us, more effectively and with fewer people. We're not talking about some mass concentration right now. We are talking about the fact that the number of civil servants should decrease at exactly the same speed as the number of people of working age is falling. I am saying that in many areas, this objective is almost exclusively feasible by not taking on new workers in place of all those leaving the job. That, too, is, in principle, possible. But, as has been said, every minister himself is the smartest and most powerful in his administration, and he makes decisions on exactly how something is distributed. It may be that some ministers decide that there is no need to tighten up at all in one institution or another, because it has already been done there, but that concentration is more extensive elsewhere. The government decides the total numbers, but does not go to work for every minister in every particular institution. It wouldn't make sense. As regards the government's ambitions to reduce red tape, not only the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, the Minister for Finance or the Minister for Public Administration, but all ministers need to look at what their opportunities are and how to do something more effectively in their field. Reducing red tape is certainly one thing that everyone has to deal with in their own field.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U38	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U39	The next question is the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will return to this subject, which my colleague, Mr Sild, has already started. My question concerns this 1.4%, which is the obligation imposed on the Ministry of Culture to lay off. You spoke very nicely that you should first see whether there is a need for a particular function or task and whether buying in as a service will not be more expensive. Please tell me if and how much you have been able to make an overview of this in your area of administration, to analyse it. How could 1.4% be extended to institutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U41	Thank you for your question. I must admit, however, that when it comes to the task set for 2016, it is rather mechanical. Since it was agreed after a very thorough discussion in the government this autumn, in such a situation, to tell the sub-offices that you are no longer needed for the Estonian state and we will shut you down, but the rest can live on, it would not have been responsible behaviour. It all wants a little longer preparation time. That is why I also referred to the fact that when we talk about decisions from a far-reaching perspective, they should become apparent after the Minister for Public Administration has submitted a plan for the next three years. We are aware of this in our area, we have talked to the heads of the institutions in this area that we are facing it. From now on, you have to look at the whole picture, and right now it's rather mechanical. Of course, there are various risks involved, but on the other hand it is also clear that there are some exceptions for which the government has previously made decisions that cannot be ignored in this process. For example, the ERR took over 20 people, and it was the decision of the government to open ETV+. It wouldn't be possible to make a new TV channel without taking in more staff. Similarly, the ERM employs nearly 50 people, as the new building will bring volumes that are probably nearly eight times larger than the old building complex, and this cannot be managed by the current composition. It is certainly not possible to tell them, in this situation, to lay off 50 people plus 1.4%. And we're not going to.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U42	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U43	Thank you, Minister, for this beautiful answer. I was particularly pleased to hear that the composition of the Estonian National Museum is growing, and of course, it is also delighted with the Estonian National Broadcasting. Now I'm gonna keep asking. As we know, through the European Union's Structural Funds, the Structural Funds, we have a clear intention, or at least as a country, of strengthening the R &amp; D activities of ministries. Can it be hoped that the Ministry of Culture will extend and improve its research and development activities in the framework of the Structural Funds programme by involving or employing a research coordinator?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U44	We are very interested in this and look forward to the moment when we can get to the point. But it's not up to us. It's up to me to decide exactly when we're gonna get to it, so we can start looking for someone like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U45	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U46	And now Mart Helme is going to ask a question to Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U47	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! Every year, a three-digit number of people disappears in Estonia. A considerable proportion of them are people with a social or some kind of disability, people with mental disabilities. But lately the public has been very alarmed by the fact that young people who are not found or found dead are increasingly missing. My question is that, in these cases, the police do not usually initiate a criminal case, even in the event of an informal application, and after a rather superficial investigation for some time, the investigations will be terminated altogether. The police are explaining this with a shortage of resources. Does the government plan to increase police resources in the current situation and to react more seriously to such disappearances than has been the case so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U48	Thank you. It is true, however, that the number of missing persons has increased. This year, 51 people have been missing and 15 of them have not yet been found. Of course, the police must do everything they can to find people as quickly as possible. The police have a wide range of working methods to do this, starting with questioning, observing, or including people in so-called physical searches. Social media has provided new channels for looking for people, etc. The tools used by the police are quite numerous and they naturally choose them on the basis of the specific circumstances of disappearance. The police estimate that there is a reason to initiate a criminal case when a person's disappearance is identified by circumstances that indicate that it may be something criminal. In such cases, of course, the police will initiate a criminal case. You asked why not all the times. This certainly cannot be justified by a lack of resources, but there must be reason to believe that there has been something criminal in order to initiate a case. So a criminal case can only be brought in cases where there is a legal basis for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U49	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U50	Thank you. However, I am not quite satisfied with the answer that a criminal case can only be initiated in the cases provided for by law. The cases provided for by law are certainly applicable to people who have disappeared in Võrumaa. In a similar case in Ida-Virumaa, when a girl went missing, a criminal case was initiated, but the young men of Võru have not been brought, even though the circumstances are almost similar until they were replaced. I still have a feeling that on many occasions the police are just making a sober estimate. We do not have a resource for more serious and binding procedures, and that is why we are taking the easy way of resisting. Perhaps my feeling is wrong, because indeed, I appreciate the facts rather on the basis of information obtained from the public, the press. However, I would like the Prime Minister to confirm that such circumstances, referring to a possible serial killer or a gang of kidnappers, do not go unnoticed by the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U51	Thank you, Mart Helme! It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U52	I would like confirmation from the head of government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U53	Thank you. I repeat that in the Republic of Estonia, criminal cases are started and only those who are authorised to do so, i.e. the police and the prosecutor's office, decide on the initiation. It is not appropriate for me, as Prime Minister, to tell anyone in one place or another that you must initiate a criminal case or you must not initiate it. That would be totally inappropriate, and there's no way I'm going to do that. Besides, you yourself said with a very correct emphasis that your information on specific cases is not complete, because it is based on public sources, and therefore only some of the facts are known. As Prime Minister, I cannot and do not want to have a say in whether or not a criminal case can be brought in one case or another. I think you understand why the Prime Minister isn't in this. But as a citizen, neither you nor I can shape a position that is adequate to the end without us knowing the specific circumstances. I therefore have a request to trust professional officials working for the Estonian state who are empowered to make decisions in this regard. I assure you, the police are taking people's disappearance very seriously. The fact that a criminal case is not initiated does not mean, for example, that there should not be a search operation on a very large scale or that the police are not very intensively looking for a person. Criminal proceedings are only one way to identify things or deal with procedures.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U54	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U55	Prime Minister! Dutch cheese is good, if there are a lot of holes, but with the law things are different if there are too many holes, then it's bad. There's a case I've encountered myself in Pärnu County. Namely, one missing fisherman was found five months later, and his death date was marked as the day of finding the body and not the actual day of his death, although verifiers were present. His one - year - old son lost his survivor's allowance for five months because of the law. Should we make such a legislative amendment or amendment here in the Riigikogu, or could the government do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U56	Thank you. I must admit that I am hearing about a specific case and such a big problem for the first time only now from you. This should be a little discussed and decided on the most sensible solution. Assuming that what you have said is true, it seems to me, too, that it would be worth looking at what kind of regulation or clarification could prevent the unfortunate situation that someone has lost the caterer, but the compensation provided for by the law is not paid.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U57	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U58	Andres Ammas will ask a question to Indrek Saare, Minister of Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U59	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! The Riigikogu allocated the state budget in a block of regional investments and subsidies to the Estonian Olympic Committee, according to my memory, about 1.4 million euros. However, I do not understand why this amount was not included in the draft budget already submitted for the first reading. After all, the Olympics will not come unexpectedly, the needs of athletes and coaches preparing for this are also long-term predictable, not to mention the financing of other Estonian sports. How, in your opinion, could the Olympic Committee be financed in the future? Is the current practice and the practice of several previous years really reasonable and essential as such?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U60	Thank you very much for the current question. I fully agree with the criticism regarding the financing of the Estonian Olympic Committee and, through it, of the sub-unions. It's all been dragged and pretty messed up. The government has become fully aware of the situation and has planned, according to it, its action plan on how to improve the financing of sport in a way that is clearer, more transparent, fairer and more secure. However, I am very grateful to the Riigikogu for supporting sport with 1.4 million and helping out this year. At the same time, I hope that, unfortunately, this practice, which has become quite long, can be found in the form of clearer solutions. As Minister of Culture, I think that the easiest thing to do is, of course, to see the sum of the Estonian Olympic Committee in the budget of the Ministry of Culture at the time when the country's budget strategy was drawn up. In this case, the Olympic Committee and the sub-unions would be assured that the amount exists and that its distribution would also be much clearer and more transparent. However, when it comes to financing all sport, we have a very, very big job to do here. As I said, the government is not holding back ambition, but has also formulated it in its action plan. We have embarked on consultations with people in the field of sport to find out what could be proposals for financing. This concerns not only the so-called roofing money of the Riigikogu, but a number of other sources of funding. At the same time, there is a discussion with the Ministry of Finance about whether anything else can be agreed. If you give me more time, I'm ready to talk about it for a while.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U61	Andres Ammas can still ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U62	Thank you. It was a pleasure to hear your answer today. But last year, the Riigikogu allocated a single sum in the same way, and a few days later, a detailed table was published in the media as to how much of it belongs to one or another subgroup. There were quite strange things, such as the Estonian Sentence Association and the Estonian Curling Union received the same amount of money. Can this year's sum be shared by the Olympic Committee itself, or is it accompanied by it, sorry, so-called secret protocol, how much specifically does one or the other sub-union receive from this amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U63	As a representative of the executive, it is not in my power to intervene in the decisions you have made in this house, nor to know how you have thought it. If you've brought along some kind of secret protocol, it's entirely on your conscience. I hope that this money will only be used for the benefit of Estonian sport. I also believe that the vast majority of it goes to the Olympic Games and the sub-unions to prepare for the title competitions. However, as far as the whole issue is concerned in general, this decision made by the Riigikogu at the end of the year is not the only concern that creates uncertainty in the field. I am pleased to say that yesterday, one of the long-standing concerns in the government was resolved, which is a matter of great joy. The fact that Estonia's large-scale teams will receive the European Championship Finals will always require considerable additional resources. So far, there has been no agreement on what will happen in this case. It has been resolved on a case-by-case basis each time, and mostly it has created a lot of emotions. Yesterday, the government agreed on a clear scheme: each area will inform the Ministry of its wishes and the Ministry will, in turn, negotiate with the Ministry of Finance. So in the future, money will be provided and the state must be able to ensure that the budget prepares for the title competitions. Of course, there are still a number of issues under discussion concerning the financing of sport, including the amounts paid out of the profits of state-owned enterprises, the taxation of donations to cultural capital, the promotion of employers' contributions to the activities of employees in sport, etc. But once again, it would take more time to explain this in detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U64	This is what Andres Herkel allows with his question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, My question is this: as a representative of the coalition, how do you view the practice of sharing the so-called 'roof money' in the Riigikogu? Is it justified to give public money as such a bounty, or are you prepared to come along with the criticism of the Free Party that we should avoid situations where one or the other single object is even worse, a sports federation is marked by a party or an individual fellowship?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U66	I understand that a member of the Riigikogu, Andres Herkel, has now proposed that these sports associations and non-profit organisations, who have so far been able to continue their activities on this route, should have closed their doors a long time ago. Or maybe I misinterpreted that proposal. Ultimately, the decisions made by the Riigikogu are within the competence of the legislator and it is not possible for me as a member of the government to prescribe anything to you. However, I am very grateful that a large part of the decisions have so-called gone into the field of culture and also in the field of sport, thus helping to preserve our excellent cultural heritage, which otherwise tends to decompose rapidly. The protection of heritage also awaits reform, and this is one of the things that lies ahead of us. Hopefully it will be possible to move forward with additional resources next year. However, as far as sport is concerned, we know that our ambitions have increased considerably, even though the system has been about the same for at least the last 15 years. However, the budget of the Estonian Olympic Committee has increased in recent years. Sport will receive over EUR 4 million next year to support the salaries of young coaches. There was no money before, and it has had a very positive effect on this area. Next year, there will probably be five and a half thousand children who will be able to practice with a higher category coach. If the Riigikogu had simply failed to give its support this time, it would have caused a very serious problem in the field of sport in the current, established system and, as I have pointed out, in some other areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U67	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U68	Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas now answers the question of Uno Kaskpeit. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U69	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! I still remember from Soviet times that there was a civil protection shelter with the necessary equipment at every major facility. There were shelters under the big houses. By now, they have been destroyed with furnishings, but I don't know any shelters in any city built for the people of the city. Here's my question. Do you think, Prime Minister, that there is even a need for shelters in Estonia for civil protection purposes, or is this a false understanding of the needs of today from my Soviet era?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U70	Thank you. I remember civil protection in Soviet times, too. I remember how Evgeny Nikonov called Tallinn 17. High school students, including me, fought bravely with cotton masks against a nuclear attack, and that we practiced how cotton and gauze should protect us. However, I do not remember because there was no shelter built during the Soviet period in my residential area in Õismäe. Indeed, there were no shelters under the panel houses, and I believe that no one is going to build them there afterwards. If you are interested in how theoretically best to protect large settlements against air strikes, then technically speaking, there are certainly better and more effective solutions today than building shelters under each house. For example, investing in mid-earth air control is certainly one of the things that would significantly improve defence capabilities. If we are really talking about such a hypothetical, theoretical situation, I prefer to focus on modern anti-aircraft, and do not consider it real that shelters should be built under houses that have already been built.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U71	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U72	Of course, as far as I know about military operations, it's not possible to fight long range gunners with midland anti-aircraft missiles. I have worked very closely with my Finnish colleagues and most of my military knowledge, training and education have been in Finland. For some reason, however, the Finns have not broken down their civil protection shelters. On the contrary, even now they are building bomb shelters for their people under new apartment buildings. What is wrong with our country that the government does not think about the safety of the people during the war? There's been wars, there's been long-range bombings, there's still wars, and they're not going anywhere. Our neighbor has very good long range cannons. I'd like to hear your opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U73	Thank you. I don't know exactly what you mean by a long range cannon. If you mean, for example, ballistic missiles, shelters won't help them either. And there is certainly no reason to believe that anyone would have an interest in using them in any situation against the civilian population. In purely military terms, it's nonsense, and I'm sure you'll understand that very well yourself. Estonia's great deterrent to anyone's idea of shooting at Estonia not only with a cannon but also with a conventional gun is, of course, that we are a NATO country. We have an independent, strong defence capacity that we contribute to the development of year after year. We are a member of NATO, and we know and demonstrate it at every possible step, so that an attack on any NATO country would be an attack on everyone. This is an important knowledge that contributes most to the fact that there is no immediate military threat to the Estonian state. But, of course, we have to work every day to make the deterrence convincing. The best thing is to build an independent defence capacity and increase the presence of the allies. But you are right, of course, when you say that population awareness must also grow. Of course, we have to deal with this too. Even if the likelihood of a military attack is low, this does not mean that we cannot better inform the population of how to cope in possible crisis situations, even in the event of a blackout.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U74	Thank you, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Thank you, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar! Thank you, Minister for Social Protection Margus Tsahkna! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U75	Good afternoon, good fellows. We will begin the session of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday of the 11th working week. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U76	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party Group, I will report to Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu on the impact of corruption in Oleg Ossinovski on Estonian politics. According to the media, the Latvian authorities have questioned one of Estonia's wealthiest businessmen, Oleg Ossinovski. Ossinovski allegedly paid a bribe of almost half a million euros to the Latvian Railway Manager in order to obtain a tender. Oleg Ossinovski has previously been convicted in Estonia for an attempt to conclude a competition-damaging agreement with Estonian Railway. Oleg Ossinovski operates his business mainly through a company called Spacecom owned by the Global Trans Group, a company owned by Russian oligarchs. In recent years he has donated nearly 200,000 euros to the Social Democratic Party. Jevgeni Ossinovski, Chairman of the Social Democratic Party, has been a member of the Board of the Skinest Group, which belongs to his father for nearly ten years between 2005 and 2014. Mr Ossinovski has assured both Parliament and the public that he has nothing to do with his father's businesses, but at least formally that is not true. In this context, we are asking whether the Minister of Justice can give Parliament a more precise overview of what is the content of the suspicion put to Oleg Ossinovski by the Latvian State. Ossinovski's lawyer claims that the bribe offered in Latvia was intended for a third party. Does the Minister of Justice have any information, who is the third party, and does he have any links with Estonia? Is there any information for which this money was intended for a third party? And fourthly, we ask, given the potential risk to the security of the Estonian state, if the chairman of one of the government parties is related to the company that produces the cited corrupt business practice, which belongs to the Russian oligarchs, whether the Estonian authorities have an overview of Evgeni Ossinovski's involvement in his father's business in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U77	I'm asking for the Riigikogu's speech chair, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 18 members of the Riigikogu, I will refer an inquiry to the Minister of Finance Sven Sester. We have previously submitted an enquiry to the Governor and Prime Minister of Eesti Pank, and now it is time for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to give an answer as to why Estonia has so far given up its benefits under the pan-European bond purchase programme. In March this year, the European Central Bank launched a bond purchase programme, and since then the money presses have printed and the interested have bought up state bonds for EUR 60 billion a month. The programme was scheduled to end in September next year, but in December this year it was decided to extend it and extend it until March 2017 or until inflation in the euro area reached the target set by the European Central Bank. Eesti Pank also participates in the asset purchase programme with around 120 million euros each month, but as the Estonian government has not issued any bonds, Eesti Pank has mainly purchased bonds from other state institutions. By way of derogation, Eesti Pank received permission from the Governing Council of the European Central Bank to acquire bonds from the state network company Elering, which have been purchased from the secondary market today for 35 million euros. However, the broader aim of the asset purchase programme is to stimulate economic growth in the euro area and keep inflation below and close to 2%. Therefore, we would like to know from the Minister of Finance which bonds Eesti Pank has purchased so far. If the purpose of the bond purchase programme is to stimulate economic growth in countries, why does Estonia encourage economic growth in other euro countries through its purchases? Why has it not even been discussed as a working version, could Estonia also start to stimulate its economy through bonds? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U79	Good fellows! On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board decides on their further processing. Now, let's go through the presence check. 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13. Today's agenda also contains two clarifications. In particular, the Government of the Republic has proposed to remove the following items from the agenda: firstly, the fifth item, which is the first reading of the draft law 126 on the ratification of the International Labour Convention (No 188) initiated by the Government of the Republic, and secondly, the sixth item, the first reading of the draft law 127 on the ratification of the International Labour Organisation's Maritime Labour Convention, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Therefore, the Maritime Labour Convention will also go out.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U80	Let us now begin the processing of today's agenda items. The first point is the second reading of the draft Act 124 amending the Population Register Act, the Civil Status Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Martin Kuke, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U81	Good Chairman!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U82	I'm sure we'll welcome him. Good fellows, I beg you to be quiet! Please respect the waitress and those who want to listen! There's too much noise in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U83	Good fellows! On 9 November, the Government of the Republic initiated a draft Act amending the Population Register Act, the Civil Status Act and the State Fees Act. Its first reading took place on 26 November this year. The deadline for submitting amendments was 3 December at 5.15 p.m. Six amendments to the draft were received from Tanel Talve, a member of the Riigikogu, and one proposal was submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The second reading of the draft was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 7 December when the Commission examined and decided on amendments. Amendments in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U84	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Dear colleagues, could you come and help the President of the Riigikogu, who is unable to do his job at the moment, because there is too much noise in the Chamber? Please, let us honor the waitress and those who wish to listen! Quiet in the hall, please! Good waitress, please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U85	Amendment 1 was tabled by a member of the Riigikogu, Tanel Talve, and its explanations are included in the list of amendments. At the meeting of the Commission on 7 December, Mr Winter presented his amendment that e-residency data should not be included in the population register archives. It would be justified to treat e-resident data as a special type of population register data. The representative of the Ministry of the Interior explained that the population register is currently structured in such a way as to have current personal data and archived data on the population register site. The purpose of the amendment is to create an e-residency note in the population register. Anyone who needs data can search the population register archives for data about e-residents. The change will improve the situation as the archive provides data about e-residents. While requests need to be modified, the Ministry of the Interior is ready to complete these queries so that the population register can provide data on e-residents to those who need them. The Ministry of the Interior does not consider it possible to restructure the entire population register system and to amend the current data exchange principles. A representative of the Ministry noted that this would lead to very high financial burdens for them. Members of the Commission agreed that budgetary resources should also be taken into account; there is no money to reform the whole system. Consequently, the Commission rejected the amendment. It was also mentioned that these changes would still be planned in the near future. The representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs confirmed to the members of the Commission that as e-residency is a developing area, changes to the whole system will also take place. Amendments No 2 to 6 were also tabled by a member of the Riigikogu, Mr Tanel Talve, and are essentially related to Amendment 1. As the Commission did not support Amendment 1, it did not support proposals No 2 for the same reasons6. Amendment 7 was tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, taking into account the letter sent by the City Chancellery on 2 December. In his letter, the City Chancellery stated that the draft law obliges local authorities to start organising further that if a person is issued with information about his minor child, guardianship or deceased spouse from the population register, he or she can pay the state fee immediately. This would mean for local authorities that people must be guaranteed the possibility of making payments on the ground. Since this capacity does not exist in the City Chancellery of Tallinn and most likely in other municipalities, the Commission found that given the large number of residents in Tallinn and the volume of necessary reorganisations, it is not possible to make all the necessary changes in such a short period of time. The City Chancellery of Tallinn proposed that the provisions on this matter be removed from the draft or that a reasonable time should be allowed for the implementation of the Act. Having heard the views of the representatives of the City Chancellery, the Commission decided to propose an amendment excluding from the draft provisions providing for the payment of the state fee when the person is issued with details of his minor child, guardianship or deceased spouse in the population register. It was decided to identify the need to charge state fees on this service and then to make the corresponding changes. And now the most important part: procedural decisions. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to refer the draft to second reading. By 16 December, the Riigikogu proposed that the second reading be stopped. If the second reading of draft 124 is completed, the draft could be sent to the third reading by 17 December and adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U86	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, would you like to clarify the seventh amendment? I understand that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has left some provisions out of the draft. At the same time, we read that there is still a sentence in the draft that a state fee of EUR 5 per person is charged for a certified extract of population register data. After all, there is also the problem of cash settlement, which, as I understand it, was brought to the attention of the largest local government in Estonia. Perhaps you will specify what was then removed from the bill and how this rule of law has been written into the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U88	As I said, when it comes to paying fees in the municipality or city, it is out of the draft because the City Chancellery of Tallinn does not have the capacity to accept these payments.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U89	Good waitress, there's another question for you from our good fellow Ken-Mart Vaher. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Am I right to understand that the amendment of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which you have fully taken into account, means that if a person has a legitimate interest, it is possible to issue a printout? A state fee of EUR 5 shall be paid for this. I understand that the payment method is a transfer, there is no cash settlement. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U91	As long as the City Chancellery of Tallinn has not created this capacity, no state fee can be charged for issuing extracts in the municipality or city. If it can be created at one point and is deemed necessary, it is possible to come back to this amendment of the law. But now the City Chancellery doesn't have that capability, and if we make such a change quickly now, they're practically unable to comply with the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U92	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions. Now I have the opportunity to open negotiations if someone would like to say something about draft 124 during the second reading in plenary. There's no call. Let us begin the examination of the amendments. Seven proposals have been received to amend the draft 124. Proposals Nos 1 to 6 have been submitted by the member of the Riigikogu, Tanel Talve. All of them were proposed not to be taken into account and are not to be voted in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. I shall not mention this, with your permission, for all six proposals. Thank you. So the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth amendments. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. Position: Take full account. We have examined the amendments. The second reading is closed and the first item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U93	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda. This is the second reading of the draft law amending the State Border Act, the Police and Border Guard Act and the State Border Act, the Customs Act and the Police and Border Guard Act, as initiated by the Government of the Republic. I am pleased to ask Kalle Laane, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to present the Chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft law on Monday, 7 December. Until 3 December, members of the Riigikogu were able to table amendments. These amendments were not tabled, i.e. no amendments were received. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself initiated two amendments. The first amendment clarifies the wording of the provision of § 97 (1) of the State Border Act and the text section 'by air across the Estonian internal or external borders' is replaced by the text section 'through the Estonian airspace'. The linguistically specified wording is in accordance with the principle of § 3 (3) of the State Border Act and § 3 (1) of the Aviation Act, according to which Estonia's airspace is the air space above the Estonian land area, territorial and internal waters and parts of border watercourses belonging to Estonia. In the first reading of the bill, I also pointed out that it was a bit of a misrepresentation, and now it has been corrected. Amendment 2 clarifies the entry into force of the law and provides that the entire law as a whole will enter into force on 1 January 2016. Since the points set out in § 3 of the draft act enter into force on 1 January 2016, it is important that the amendments enter into force at the same time as they wish to be amended in accordance with the draft act before entry into force. Therefore, § 3 of the bill must enter into force on 1 January 2016. What were the procedural decisions of the commission? The Constitutional Committee decided to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu for a second reading, including by 16 December, i.e. today, and to propose that the second reading be stopped. When the second reading is closed, it is proposed that the draft be sent to the third reading by 17 December 2015 (this was a consensual decision) and then put to the final vote. This too was a consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U95	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Two proposals have been received to amend bill 141. The first amendment is from the lead committee, which has been fully taken into account. The second amendment is also from the lead committee and has been fully taken into account. Thank you, we have examined the amendments. The second reading is closed and the second item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U96	We will move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Act amending § 30 of the VAT Act, initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I am again pleased to invite the Chair of the Riigikogu Committee, this time the Chairman of the Monetary Commission, Remo Holsmer. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U97	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill was initiated by the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu. On 23 November 2004 and mainly on the basis of the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice to bring the VAT law into line with the Constitution. The first reading took place on 9 December. No proposals were received from Riigikogu members or political groups by the deadline for amendments, 11 December at 4 p.m. For its part, the commission did not propose any amendments either. The Finance Committee proposed that the draft be submitted to the Riigikogu's agenda for second reading on 16 December and that the second reading be closed. We also proposed that the draft be sent to third reading by 17 December when the second reading is completed. According to the end of the year, all decisions were consensual. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U98	Good waitress, thank you. There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. No amendments were tabled to the 148th draft. The second reading is closed and the third item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U99	We will move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the Bill 80 on the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws extending the rights of victims in criminal proceedings. Before we go to the report, let me briefly introduce the procedure for the second reading of this draft, which follows from § 105 of our Home and Working Procedures Act. First of all, the presentation of the commission is up to 20 minutes. § 67 of the Act also states that the President may, in agreement with the rapporteur, extend the speaking time. After that, of course, as with second reading, there are still questions and answers, followed by negotiations. But now I am pleased to ask Kristjan Kõljalg, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U100	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you about the process before the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the related amendment of other laws. This draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 14 September. The first reading took place on 28 October. The members of the Riigikogu, Kalle Laanet, Andres Anvelt and Raivo Aeg submitted a joint proposal by the deadline of 6 November. An amendment was also tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. Mr Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, wrote to the Committee on Legal Affairs. In his letter, he noted that during the procedure in the Government of the Republic, the state budget negotiations were under way, during which the Ministry of Justice was tasked with reviewing the regulation of the translation of the Code of Criminal Procedure in order to assess whether the current and modified regulation could be more flexible and thus allow cost savings. Consequently, the Ministry of Justice submitted eight further proposals to amend the draft. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft in the preparation of the second reading at three meetings attended by representatives from both the Ministry of Justice and the prosecutor's office. At its meeting on 17 and 23 November, the Commission decided to initiate 14 amendments. During the proceedings of the draft act, Kalle Laane, Andres Anvelt and Raivo Aeg withdrew their proposal on the ground that a proposal for the same provision came from the Ministry of Justice and essentially resolved the issue that three members of the Riigikogu drew attention to in their proposal. And now for the amendments. Amendment 1 amends § 10 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure and gives it a new wording. The aim is to clarify that the assistance of an interpreter is not provided to any party to the proceedings and to any party to the legal proceedings, including defence, as the current wording of the law provides, but only to suspects, accused persons, victims, civil defendants and third parties. If the lawyer does not speak Estonian, he must pay his own translation costs. Amendment 2 amends § 10 (5) of the Act. The amendment allows the person to translate documents in so far as it is essential to understand the subject matter of the charge or for any other reason to ensure the fairness of the proceedings. Amendment 3 complements § 10 (6) of the Act and aims to clarify that where a suspect or accused person requests the translation of a document the translation of which is not mandatory, such a request may also be partially accepted by translating only the part of the document which the suspect needs to know to understand the content of the suspicion or accusation. Amendment 4 amends § 10 (7) of the Act and provides for the possibility for suspects and accused persons to opt out of translation and to have the text translated orally or to have an oral summary of the document taken. Amendment 5 amends § 10 (7) of the Act in such a way that the person must also have the opportunity to complain about the translation of an important document only partially, but he or she wishes to translate the entire document. The relevant appeal procedure shall be conducted in pre-trial proceedings in accordance with the provisions of the appeal procedure and in court proceedings in compliance with the provisions of the appeal procedure. Amendment 6 amends § 12 (3) and is technical. The references shall be amended. Amendment 7 brings together amendments to several sections and all the amendments in the proposal relate to the inclusion of the concept of a public claim into the law. Amendment 8 repeals § 45 (2) (6) of the Act and, according to that amendment, a suspect or accused person, like other types of proceedings, could also waive protection in urgent proceedings. The problem is that the accused often agrees with the punishment in urgent proceedings, but the current regulation still obliges him to have a lawyer in the proceedings. That doesn't make any sense. If the parties have agreed, it is not appropriate to have a lawyer in the entire criminal proceedings. Amendment 9 amends § 45 (4) of the Act and provides for additional grounds on which the participation of protection in legal proceedings is not mandatory. Amendment 10 amends the amendments proposed in § 133 and 134 of the Act. Points 28 and 29 of the draft act provide for a procedure to be used to comply with the requirement laid down in point 17 of the draft act under the so-called Victims' Directive that a self-employed person is entitled to request that he or she be informed of the custody or release of the person who committed the offence against him or her, if such information could prevent the victim from being put at risk. This right would be reserved for the self-employed and not for the legal-employed. Amendment 11 amends the title of § 1414, § 1414 (1), § 142 (1) and § 240 (4) of the Act. The words "public claim' shall be added to the word "civil action'. Amendment 12 seeks to amend the wording of § 2001 (1) of the Act and delete the proposed amendments to § 207. This is the amendment relating to the proposal made by the three members of the Riigikogu. The solution is that the Ministry of Justice has, jointly with the Public Prosecutor's Office, further analysed the proposal contained in the original draft to allow the termination of criminal proceedings in the absence of a person's identification under the regulation of the investigating authority without the permission of the prosecutor's office, and given the fact that by 2016 additional sums have been planned in the state budget to implement a human resources reform of the prosecutor's office, which will allow prosecutors to be partially exempted from more technical tasks by employing consultants, the Ministry of Justice abandoned the original proposal. The preparation of a project to update the information system of the Public Prosecutor's Office has also begun, which would make it possible to streamline and make it more flexible the way in which the regulations for the closure of such proceedings are approved. At the same time, it is important for the sustainable use of resources that § 2001 makes an amendment to the original draft which allows the collection of additional evidence to be based on the criterion of rationality. However, if the decision to close the proceedings remains the responsibility of the prosecutor's office, the prosecutor can decide, depending on the seriousness of the crime and other circumstances, whether or not the collection of additional evidence in a particular case is necessary for the effectiveness of the investigation. This will allow more resources to be devoted to the detection and swift prosecution of serious crime. As a consequence, the amendments to § 27 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which provided for the procedure for challenging proceedings closed by the investigating authority, are also excluded. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group and the Committee on Legal Affairs took this into account in substance. The solution is contained in the following amendment, which is numbered 14. This changes the numbering of § 2962 (3) and 310 (3) of the Act, excluding paragraph 3 from the last paragraph. The amendment clarifies the rules on civil action and failure to comply with a public claim. In the original version of the draft law, the consequences of non-compliance were regulated in two provisions: both § 2962 (3) and § 310 (3). For the sake of the systemic nature of the Code, it is justified to regulate all consequences of the failure to review § 2962, inter alia, that the omission does not preclude the re-imposition of the same claim. This right must also be clarified by the court in the absence of review. The amendment also includes the proposal submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Amendment 15 gives a new version of the entry into force provision. In this respect, the following changes have been made: First, in addition to the amendments relating to the transposition of the Victim Assistance Directive, point 45 of the draft law, which is an amendment to § 2001, enters into force in general. The need for a different entry into force of this provision was due to the need to change information systems. With the new wording, this need is no longer needed, so there is no reason to postpone entry into force. Point 46 of the bill also enters into force in general. This is an amendment to § 217 (10) due to the entry into force of the new Child Protection Act. In the Child Protection Act in force until 1 January, the obligation to notify the minor of detention is included, but no longer in the new law, which is why the relevant regulation must be included in the Code of Criminal Procedure as soon as possible. Now the procedural decisions and proposals of the lead committee. At its meeting on 7 December, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading and to propose that the second reading be stopped and that when the second reading of the draft is completed, the final vote on the draft be carried out. So much more information that the draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu's plenary to be adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U101	Questions for the waitress? No questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Honourable Riigikogu! There are 15 amendments to the draft 80, and all the proposals of the Committee on Legal Affairs are of course fully taken into account. We need to revise the table of amendments. The first proposal is by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the second by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the third by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the fourth by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the fifth by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the sixth by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the seventh by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the eighth by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the ninth by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the tenth by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the 11 by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the 12 by the Committee on Legal Affairs, 13. by the Estonian Centre Party Group and taken into account in substance, by the 14th Legal Affairs Committee and by the 15th Legal Affairs Committee. The second reading of bill 80 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U102	We now begin the third reading of the draft law amending the Water Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Ivari Padar on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U103	Ladies and gentlemen, Since the amendment to the Water Act caused excitement at second reading in the Chamber, such as the word 'dung' made the hall swell, I thought I would say a few words about this draft, which represents a long-standing compromise. The main objective of this draft is to regulate the area of agriculture and the behaviour of farmers. The European Commission has opened infringement proceedings against us, and I think it is for the sake of the matter. It can't be condemned. It has been pointed out that we, who have invested money from European Union funds and promised yet to invest in clean water, must, in every way, behave in such a way that clean water is not put at risk. In other words, we cannot build a well and at the same time go squatting on that well. One thing is clear: not all water quality problems can be blamed for farmers, but other areas are likely to affect the aquatic environment. At the same time, I would argue that when it was said here at second reading that agriculture would be put to death, it certainly is not right. We need to look at what our agriculture has developed, and, in the face of the truth, it is in the wake of the European Union's common agricultural policy. We have well concentrated agricultural production. This concentration has certainly ensured very high efficiency on the one hand, but on the other it has also led to a phenomenon called point pollution or pollution at a single site. In the mid - 1970's, the socialist work became a hero for milking 4,000 to 4,500 kilos of milk per year from the herd. Finding Peips became a hero of socialist work, milking an average of 4,000 kilos from a cow, Rosalie Kirinen about 4,500 kilos. At present, the average milk yield is 8,000 pounds [10,000 kg]. Each kilo of milk means four liters of water, which must be taken into account. Or maybe we're talking about a Soviet grain market. The peak of the Soviet harvest was around 800000 tonnes, and the grain was grown on a much larger surface than it is now. This year's record comes close to 1.5 million tons. In general, it is clear that agriculture has a role to play in water pollution, but farmers cannot endlessly be blamed for all this. In any case, if this draft was co-ordinated last year at the Ministry of Agriculture, it was sent back to the Ministry of the Environment with 46 comments. We couldn't be satisfied with the bill. A major compromise has now been reached and the draft has to be adopted as a law. At the same time, some issues have been mentioned at different levels, which will have to be re-examined following the adoption of this law, and which is why studies will be coming up at the beginning of next year. It is agreed and mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. I will also repeat here a few points that need to be dealt with further. The restriction on manure fertilisation in crops with high nitrogen uptake will certainly be reviewed. The basis for the determination of soil nutrient content is also discussed, as soil sampling is a requirement that can be supported by a number of environmental payments and that there can be no overlap. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U104	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U105	Is that all you got?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U106	That's all I can do.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U107	One issue concerns shepherding. At present, seashores are allowed to herd without restrictions. But further analysis is needed by the restrictions on grazing in the vicinity of inland waters, and an analysis of the conditions under which animals should be grazed along inland waters. Let's be honest, at times this could be a pretty serious risk of pollution. So, in any case, this law must go on: it must be adopted and then it must be further worked on. That's my recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U108	There are no further requests to speak. The commission has proposed that the draft law be put to a final vote on 82. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 82. Please take a stand and vote. There were 51 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 82, 15 against and 2 abstentions. The Water Act Amendment Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U109	The next item is the third reading of draft law 119 on amendments to the Guarantee Fund Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 119. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Guarantee Fund Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws Act 119. Please take a stand and vote. There are 72 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting Bill 119 as a law, there is no one against and there are four abstentions. The law amending the Guarantee Fund Act and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U110	We will start by reading 117 third reading of the draft law amending the law on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the Member State of the European Union, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the law on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the Member State of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic 117. Please take a stand and vote. 74 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft 117, no one opposed and no abstentions. The law amending the law on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from a Member State of the European Union has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U111	The second reading of the Bill of Amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act and to the Private Schools Act 140 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The rapporteur is Laine Randjärv, Chairman of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The preparation of the second reading of the draft 140 was the subject of three discussions in the Committee on Culture: on 8, 10 and 15 December. At the meeting on 14 December, the subject matter was not discussed in substance, but it was related to the progress of the proceedings. On 8 December representatives of associations of local authorities were heard and presented their views to the Commission. The representative of the Cities Association noted that the Ministry did not negotiate with the representatives of the municipalities during the preparation of the draft, which is why the representatives of the municipalities did not coordinate the draft. The representative of the Estonian Association of Municipalities also referred to shortcomings in the process of negotiating education support. They were dissatisfied because of the loss of the investment component, although it was admitted that the increase in teachers' salaries was also important. According to the representative of the Tartu City Government, the investment component of Tartu was used to support the provision of support specialists' services, which was also provided by the law at the beginning of this year. To my question whether the municipalities would support if the components of the support could be used not only to cover the costs of teachers' salaries, but also to cover the costs of schooling, Riho Raave, Head of the Education Department of the Tartu City Government, replied that such a solution would support schoolkeepers. On the question of the abolition of the investment component of Mihkel Raud and the usability of the Structural Funds funding for its replacement, the guests replied that the Structural Funds measure was intended to clean up the school network and essentially to demolish school buildings and that more than half of the EUR 240 million were intended for the establishment of a network of state secondary schools. In the case of municipalities, a number of activities are not eligible and the need for self-financing must also be taken into account. A discussion followed on the future of the upper secondary school network more generally and the financial situation of the municipalities. It was considered reasonable that the state would assume the responsibility for maintaining upper secondary schools as a whole in the future and that the local government would be responsible for basic education. I was of the opinion that more flexible solutions should be found during the procedure for the use of educational support components in the light of the needs of the school. On 10 December, the Committee on Culture examined 140 amendments to the draft. The Chairman of the Committee on Culture presented the wording of a possible amendment of the Commission, which was formulated on Tuesday, 8 December, on the basis of a discussion at the meeting. According to the amendment, the municipality or city would also have the right to use the support allocated to pay for the work of directors and sub-directors and to cover the costs of continuing training and teaching literature in a more flexible way to pay teachers' salaries and to cover other costs necessary for the completion and maintenance of the school curriculum. At the same time, the amendment left the support allocated to the costs of using the labour force of teachers exclusively to cover these costs. Mihkel Raud presented the view of the Social Democratic Party Group that it should not be possible to use state budget support for investment, figuratively painting ceilings. The Commission took this view into account. The Social Democratic Party Group also had a second view that support for further training should not be used by the municipality or the city to cover other costs. It was proposed that the grant granted to cover the costs of continuing training for teachers, directors and teachers should be used only for the purpose and should not be used to support salaries or support specialists. There was a serious debate on this in the Commission, because the purpose of the draft was to find the means to raise teachers' salaries and the proposal to limit the use of money beyond possible continuing training to only one purpose raised a number of questions. The representative of the Ministry of Education explained that the decree of the Government of the Republic of Estonia of 13 February 2015, which currently regulates the use of educational support, allows the pedagogical staff to be paid a salary for the additional training costs if the need for further training is covered. He pointed out that the design of the amendment should take into account that the new organisation would not become more inflexible. Mailis Reps suggested that consideration be given to the possibility that the amounts of further training could be used to cover the costs of support services as well as educational resources, if this was considered appropriate in situations where the need for further training was covered and the requirements laid down by law on teaching materials were met. I stressed that the proposed change must make the situation more flexible for local authorities and that local authorities must be trusted in their decision-making. Greater flexibility in the use of education support will enable local authorities to better organise school life. It was also explained how important it is for schools to be able to use the money in a meaningful and need-based way to cover the costs of both teacher salaries and support services. According to the amendment proposed by the Committee on Culture, the law would also provide an opportunity for schools to use the resources allocated as education support to cover the costs of continuing training and teaching resources to pay the salaries of support specialists and teachers. At the same time, the school-leaving allowance can continue to be used by the school-keeper only for specific purposes. Amendment 1 gives schoolchildren and local authorities more freedom. During the debate, the amendment was redrafted in accordance with this principle and it was decided to take full account of it: 9 members of the Commission were in favour, 1 against, 1 abstention. Amendment 2 was tabled by the Ministry of Finance and concerns the wording of § 1 and the reference to the euro instruments. The proposal was subject to consensus by the Commission. Amendments 3 and 4 tabled by the Centre Party Group concerned the restoration of the use of the investment component for municipal schools. Amendment 3 was not supported by the Commission vote and proposal 4 was partially taken into account. Nor was the proposal No 5, which involved restoring the investment component to private schools, supported. Procedural decisions were also taken, which I will read at the end of my report. On 14 December, it was also decided to discuss amendments and procedural decisions at the next meeting of the Commission, which was held on 15 December. On 15 December, the Commission held a clarification and approval of the final wording of the first and second reading procedural documents of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act and the Private Schools Act. Resources for further training were left to the status defined by the current law. The technical wording was amended to specify the number of paragraphs in the paragraph under consideration. It was decided to support the wording in full: 6 members of the Commission were in favour, 1 against and 2 abstentions. On the 140th draft, the Committee on Culture adopted the following procedural decisions on 10 December: to propose that the second reading be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 16 December 2015, to propose the termination of the second reading (by 6 members of the Commission, against 5), to send the draft to third reading when the second one is closed (by 6 members of the Commission, against 5), and to propose the final vote on the draft (by 6 members of the Commission, against 5). Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U113	Questions for the waitress. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Chairwoman and rapporteur of the good Committee on Culture, first of all thank you very much for the detailed overview that took place in the three sessions. But it is clear that the bill takes 140, when it becomes a law, the investment component, or money, from local governments. Basically, the biggest dispute is that the decision-making power of local authorities is again being reduced and, at the same time, money is actually being reduced. One of the most interesting sentences I have heard to comment on this is the sentence that, in fact, the local government does not even lose money, simply changes the lines. How do you see it as a lead man?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U115	The big thing is that the same 2.6 million really is moving from one line to the other. In this sense, the sentence you referred to is quite close to the truth. Indeed, the actual situation is that the investment component contained not only investment-related but also the possibility of paying back-up providers. At present, the situation is getting worse for those local authorities that have taken loans or long-term contracts with the RKAS and could pay these amounts on account of the investment component. However, if this money moves to support the salaries of educators and, if possible, support providers, the people who work in schools in this municipality will receive a higher salary. The local government must find money from its budget to pay loans and leases on account of other lines, and perhaps to perform other contractual obligations. However, the municipality will certainly receive partial support from UCITS, too, to clean up the comprehensive school and upper secondary school network. It cannot be said that this means exactly the same purpose, but making budgets in the local government is about finding balance between the budget lines. If there are more costs to be incurred, these payments will still have to be made for other items of expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U116	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U117	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, It has to be said directly that the income base of local authorities will be reduced by 2.6 million euros, by which they will have to reduce their normal costs. I am saddened that the Committee on Culture only thinks nationally. I ask such a question that it was also an opportunity through which perhaps it was possible to raise the pay of kindergarten teachers and support specialists. It is not the euro investment in a box or a house that replaces this money taken away from local governments. Why are you doing this in the Commission? Local government and state, for example, how can the city of Tartu still cover its expenses if they are short of a few hundred thousand euros?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U118	I'm glad you're worried about the city of Tartu. Kõlva is quite close to Tartu, and children from Põlva also attend school in Tartu, so in this sense I fully understand your concern. It is true that euro money does not replace the investment component, which I have just admitted in my previous reply. It must be said, however, that since the current wording of the law also makes it possible to pay for support services, it is possible for the local government to cover the labour costs that it has to bear today in the case of good management. This is not the responsibility of the state at the moment either. The amendment to this draft clearly states that it is possible to use available funds to pay for the provision of support services at the expense of certain lines, and I am not going to read it all out, it is so long. But you'll see what money can be paid for, which can't be paid for. This, however, partly eases the situation. And when we listened to the leaders of local governments and the representatives of the Cities and the Association of Municipalities, they said that they would be satisfied with this wording. They consider that they can handle this obligation and that the Riigikogu will not harm them with such a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U119	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U120	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. From what you said, it came out that there are other costs that can be spent on training costs. Thus, the use of training costs becomes flexible and, once all the necessary training has been completed, this money can also be used to pay for, for example, the labour force. Is it wrong for me to assume that if this flexibility continues to increase, perhaps the amount of training will also be withdrawn from the education budget? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U121	I must make it clear, perhaps in my report, that the amendment made by the Committee on Culture on 15 December states that the money for further training is to be used in accordance with the current law, which does not allow the money for further training to be used for anything else. So your concern is unfounded.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U122	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U123	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! In the Commission, 9 votes in favour, 1 against, 1 abstention approved the proposal to remove the framework for training costs. So training costs can be used to raise the salaries of support professionals and teachers. Then Master Ossinovsky's hard-on phone war broke out, calling one, two, three, and four. It took two days, and the same committee, who voted the same way before, voted the other way around and put the framework back on the training costs. Now the question is, who is this game being played for? There is a cultural committee that, as it were, decides about education, but it does not really decide anything. I am sorry, how is it possible that the Commission will vote on its decision two or three days later? Please tell me what the purpose of this committee is. Let's play with the cards!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U124	The purpose of the Commission is to deal with draft laws. And in fact, such a political debate is most welcome. In any debate, positions become clearer and people understand better what is needed for something. However, the Committee on Culture must be commended for the fact that a number of steps were taken towards a more flexible regulation in the process of handling this bill, in comparison with the draft that came to us from the government to the Riigikogu. If you compare these two drafts, you will see that the previous one had much harder frames around and we managed to remove some of them as a result of vigorous negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U125	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U126	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! In the context of this draft, what exactly does the expression 'other educational resources necessary for completing the school curriculum' mean? What could they be?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U127	These are teaching tools that are purchased in a schoolhouse that is free of charge and that do not go anywhere with the student, for example, a climbing rope or a goat in a gym, a computer or some kind of accessory needed in a physics laboratory. In short, these are educational tools that are not workbooks, textbooks, or pencils that the student holds. They are necessary for free use in the schoolhouse and for completion of the curriculum.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U128	There you go. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U129	Thank you. Dear Chairman of the Committee on Culture, I am, of course, interested in what the local authorities will say after we adopt the amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and they must be implemented. You said that those local authorities who have taken out loans would lose. Perhaps you can comment on how many local authorities there are.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U130	It has to be said that these are the larger local authorities. I'm not going to read the whole list right now because I might be wrong, but there's over five and less than ten of them. In most municipalities, this investment component has been small distributed. The money we are talking about is actually EUR 2.6 million. If we share it with more than 200 local governments, the amount is not too high for any local government. At the same time, I have to say that in small municipalities there is also EUR 10,000 in very large money, and it is certainly an important amount for over-painting, plastering, roofing or changing windows. But yes, these are the orders of magnitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U131	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U132	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! Since 2010, we have a Supreme Court decision which shows that the state has not established the functions and financial resources of local governments. The year is 2015, the Supreme Court's decision has still not been implemented by the state. Could this be one of the reasons why the central government is so arrogant about local governments and takes money away from them when it is necessary? Could that be one reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U133	I cannot say whether this particular draft is motivated by the situation you have referred to or by this judicial decision, by disregarding it or by incomplete consideration. However, the bill certainly has to do with the desire to raise teachers' salaries.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U134	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! I had a big question about the role of myself, the role of the Riigikogu and the role of the Commission during the discussion on this item. In a normal society, the Riigikogu develops policies, the executive powers carry it out. At the moment, we are plunged into minor regulations that should be in the power of executive power in a normal country. There are exceptions when we do not trust our executive powers or there are other special reasons. I have not understood why we are encased in small things that do not change politics, but mean changing labels. Can we trust our ministries, our executive, or can we not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U136	Thank you. I want to trust both our executive and local authorities. But right now we are in a situation where regulation has been quite targeted and money has been so-called tight in drawers. We want to move towards more flexible regulation where, within the educational component, everything is more freely decided, not only the salaries of directors-general, educational resources, further training, teaching literature, but also the salaries of teachers in the long term. Why should the local government not be able to decide all of this on its own if the minimum wage for teachers has been provided? I represent the view that we are moving in this direction. Except a big piece breaks your mouth and you can't take that bite one at a time. We'll do it in small steps, but with more determination.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U137	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U138	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! If I have understood the current debate correctly, the views of the Members of the Commission changed relatively much in the short term during the procedure for the draft. Training activities are, as we know, a very big business. There are certainly skilled and powerful lobbyists among trainers. Did you perceive the influence of these lobbyists in the Commission, especially the Socialist Members of the Commission, during the procedure for the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U139	Thank you. I believe it is not appropriate to call a coalition partner a lobbyist, a coalition must have consensus with all three parties. In this state, I think that this principle could be followed until the hands are struck until the man's word is given. When discussing the draft and explaining their positions to each other even better, the Golden Midway found: no ultimatums, a rather soft wording that neither forbids nor hands, but provides an opportunity to organise further training. The amount of additional training money was 3% of the amount of education, and during the previous minister's time it was put at 1%. In principle, its compensation is EUR 25 million in training funding from the euro envelope up to 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U140	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Yesterday, in a debate on science and innovation, we heard that the government was trying to boil soup from a chicken laying eggs. It was only 10 million. There's a debate today about some lousy 2.6 million. The Mayor of Tartu Urmas Klaas has expressed his clear opposition to this situation. What face are you looking at your partymate, Urmas Klaas?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U142	I look at Urmas Glass with a happy face. The wording or thought of this draft has certainly changed in comparison with that of Urmas Klaas. Urmas Glass quite rightly reacted to the fact that the investment component was taken away and resolutely directed towards teachers' salaries. The current idea is that the provision of support services can also be remunerated at the expense of this money, and this plan satisfies the local authorities. It also satisfies the Mayor of Tartu Urmas Klaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U143	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U144	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The Committee on Culture has proposed an amendment allowing the use of the so-called textbook and workbook money to be used to pay for support services. Do you think that money should ever be left over? As far as I'm concerned, it's always missing, as the particular school life shows.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U145	I wonder what kind of specific school life shows this. It would be interesting to read some specific reports on where such a statement is included. Local government leaders have just said that they do not have to buy entirely new teaching literature every year, but can also use the books in the library. Each textbook can be used for a few or three years. It is not necessary to buy all new learning tools every year. This is the rational use of teaching tools. If the so-called drawer or line of teaching was completely closed, so that nothing else should be available for this money, then at the end of the year there would be a mandatory purchase of a number of pencils, paints and cards, for example, to make use of the money. The current regulation will allow more efficient use of money. It is not necessary to make full use of everything, as in the case of funds and limits in the Soviet era.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U146	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U147	Thank you, manager. Mr President of the Commission. I'll see how quickly your political perceptions change. It is clear that, in order to fulfil your political commitment to raise the pay of teachers paid by the state, you will reduce the income base of local governments. However, you will also reduce the possibility of paying normal salaries to kindergarten teachers and teachers of hobby schools. Recently, you stood here before the Riigikogu, speaking very strongly for teachers of music schools to receive more pay. At the same time, you are now basically dissuading the hope of music school teachers with 2.5 million. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U148	I'm sure that's not true. The investment component has never planned to pay local governments money so that they can pay teachers from their music schools, art schools and sports schools. The investment component was intended to cover the investments of general schools and the fee for support services. It's not like we were sluggish about making those decisions. We listened to representatives of local governments, who had the authority to represent cities and all rural municipalities. These competent representatives met with us several times and confirmed that the current wording satisfies them. We were always based on the desire to negotiate with our partners and make decisions that are more or less suitable for both sides. No one can say that all decisions should necessarily satisfy one hundred percent of people. Money's always low. It is a matter of priorities. The salaries of teachers in general schools are now a priority.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U149	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U150	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Wave! The training allowance is spotless compared to the textbook money. One of the latest studies conducted by the Ministry of Education and Research is the study of the weight of the school bag. It says that the school bag should weigh less than five kilos and it should definitely contain an electronic reader. Don't you smell a little bit like Master Ossinovski or Lord Ligi has been approached by a lobbyist who's got a whole warehouse full of readers and he has nowhere to put them? Now the textbooks' money frames were opened and the next command from the top is that the textbooks' money should be used to buy readings. I have a suspicious feeling that this might change very well, because before you put a little definition of past the money of textbooks, you can never spend anything else in school but textbooks. Unless you're bashing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U151	Thank you very much. Now, about the readers and the lobbyists, I owe you an answer. No one's been talking to me specifically. I know one person who's been a big fan of reading, but he's not in active politics anymore, and I don't think he's gonna do chitchat. But he just liked the readers, hardly having a lot of them in his back pocket somewhere. There was no debate on the readings in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U152	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U153	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I remember that in a bad Russian time, the baby got the textbook, and it was his. He could also use it in the following year and perhaps later it remained with him. I still have a number of textbooks, and I think many of you, too. If we go on so emotionally right now, and our kids are just like robots, maybe that's not quite right. In fact, the teaching tools are that teachers work hard and reproduce them, that there are no study books left. It is not the case that this money is left over that can be told by any school teacher. Why do we keep moving money from one pocket to another? And not only in education, in any area of life you look at, even in the social sphere, there is also exactly that only the Excel table is valid.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U154	It is difficult for me to express my opinion on all aspects of life; I do not consider myself as competent in all areas of life as you do. As for the library books during the Soviet times you referred to, I did not take these books home from the library, I returned them every spring. When I got the next grade next fall, I saw that at least five or six students had already rented them. As far as reproduction is concerned, it is the responsibility of each teacher himself. It's a matter of copyright. But it is certainly possible to use workbook material that is online. We have an e-state and increasingly have online work in classes. I believe that in the case of online materials, everything related to copyright has been negotiated, and the way in which e-products are used in classes is similarly enshrined in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U155	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! There are certainly quite a few questions about the situation in which we do not actually have expenditure coverage. Money is being taken away from investments, but we do not really have more money to provide support services. I think that Tarmo Tamm's question was very legitimate - this 2.5 million must now be found by local authorities somewhere. And it is clear that the local government's income base is like a blanket that is pulled on the one hand and on the other, because it has to cover kindergarten teachers, hobbies and everything else. But there was an interesting discussion about the teaching tools. I can assure you that ten years ago, when we increased the amount of teaching resources to about three times the amount, by the way, this decision was born in cooperation with you, the calculation was such that the costs of teaching materials, including textbooks and workbooks, were minimally covered. Now, what's the optimism that's going to be so much money left over?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U157	Thank you. I think there's been a lot of water flowing into the sea in ten years. There has certainly been a great development in technology, and not all teaching materials are necessarily on paper; many things can be learned online. I'm sure there's one way to save it. At the same time, I believe that, at the moment, the use of the cost line of learning resources is more flexible, that money is used more efficiently and rationally and that it is not necessarily trying to spend everything. Before, there was a specific amount in a drawer with solid frames and it was not to be spent on anything else. Then maybe the sums were used up to the last cent, because something had to be done with the money when it couldn't be used. But that's my guess. I certainly don't put a so-called sign on anyone's forehead that he's used that money anyway. To a large extent, I trust both school leaders who make decisions and local authorities who could actually have the opportunity to decide more flexibly on the money in the field of education, which is a very large amount of money. In some municipalities, it accounts for just over half of the total budget of the city or municipality, in some even more. I therefore believe that our current step is a small one, but still a first step towards a more flexible financing system or financing model.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U158	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U159	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We're used to crossing the municipalities in this hall with a roller coaster. I'm going to ask you what's going on with this bill. How many percent of the municipalities approve of this? Do you want to name a particular municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U160	Talked specifically with Tartu, Pärnu and Viljandi. However, I do not want to say that they necessarily approve of this. I'm not happy in the big picture. I'm not saying you took our money, that's great! But they understand the situation. As I said, there were representatives of the Cities Union and the Association of Rural Governments in the Commission, and through them we received information that the movement in this direction would rather satisfy them in general. And we didn't make any decisions until we heard them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U161	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U162	Thank you for a very meaningful presentation. The most important thing, apparently, is that money is actually coming out of the drawer and moving around more and more between drawers. This will give both local authorities and school leaders the opportunity to do their job even better. But I also got worried about the readers and the little money that Mailis was talking about. There is a temptation to produce ever cheaper textbooks, including readers. This means that the quality of the textbook will fall dramatically. Luger is not a pedagogically acceptable way of sharing information, as is most of the online educational material that is educationally inferior. Question: are we able to hold back this tendency of cheapening, which is reflected in technical stupid teaching tools?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U163	I believe that the Committee on Culture will never have to discuss the subject of halting the market economy at its meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U164	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U165	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, I come back to the argument that the opposition of local authorities and their representative organisations was not very great. When I read the address of the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, I see that they still do not agree with the principle that the funds intended to cover the costs of raising the salaries of teachers are still intended to cover the costs of education infrastructure for local authorities, including the own contribution to investments. Would it not be fairer to send a signal to local authorities that because the government is unable to ensure that teachers' salaries are raised to the permissible level, certain items of expenditure should simply be cut?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U166	Once again, in the case of the investment component, the payment for support services was actually largely at stake. The biggest concern for local authorities was that if the investment component is taken away and it remains undefined what can be paid for this money or, for example, if it goes only to the pay of teachers or only to further training, the situation is difficult. If it also allows for remuneration to be paid to support service providers, they can do best. That was the information we came up with. It is also recorded at the meeting of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U167	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U168	Good waitress! I think everyone sitting in this Chamber was happy to hear that the Committee on Culture was never going to deal with a market economy. This was really very encouraging and wonderful news, at least we do not need to worry about the market economy. But several athletes are or at least belong to the Committee on Culture. I'm going to ask you exactly the same question I asked from the other side. Does a 12-year-old child have to wear a coat that weighs eight kilos just because we don't have enough money to make a lighter pack?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U169	Interesting question. To be honest, I don't know who you mean by athletes. It is an honor for all of us to call us athletes, and surely we are all health athletes or at least think about our health. I didn't understand you very well, I think that was a rhetorical question, because it is not possible to open a discussion here. Should the Committee on Culture discuss how difficult the coast of one child or another is? Of course, it is sad when a child cannot carry a bag that is packed up for him. Then there is the possibility: I remember from school that we agreed with the benchmate that one day I would take them and these textbooks and he would take the other textbooks. Then the bag was half lighter. There are certainly other creative solutions; people are clever today. I don't know if I answered your question, but maybe a little philosophy was here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U170	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U171	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! You argued that you look very happy at the mayor of Tartu and that you are very optimistic about the draft we are discussing today. I understand you're happy. You will be joined by Igor Gräzini and the mayor of Tartu party ticket, and the coalition will need to find money somewhere. But please tell me what position the Cities Union took on the draft and how it criticised it. Give me a heads-up!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U172	The Cities Association sent non-coordination to the Ministry of Education. This was largely due to the fact that the process was too fast. They were left with coordination for one or two days and therefore the draft was not coordinated. There was one day, as Mailis Reps explained. Since the government came from the way I say it, the very original wording, which was well framed, they protested against it. When the draft came to the Committee on Culture, we decided to invite representatives of the Cities Association and the Association of Rural Governments to attend to hear directly what their concerns are. They explained that under the investment component it is possible to pay for support services under the existing regulation and the current law. That was their biggest concern. The subject of support services was also mentioned in this Chamber when the first reading was held and the minister answered the questions. I have a great deal of concern for support services, too. I believe that there is an increasing need for support services in addition to teachers at school. It is important to ensure that children with different characteristics, opportunities and needs are able to learn that if someone needs help from a social pedagogy, psychologist or logo beet, they will receive it. And it would be good if this help were to be taken from school, not to drive far to the county center. That's absolutely what I'm thinking. And now we're trying to move back in that direction. This is one of the most serious concerns raised by the representatives of the Cities and the Association of Municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U173	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U174	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Is it possible to sum up whether the recast will increase or reduce the budget available to the head of school?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U175	The budget available to the head of school is linked to the number of students in a given school year. In fact, it has to do with this in every financial year. So I don't know how to answer using absolute numbers in one area may increase the budget, in the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U176	Mihkel Iron, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U177	Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. Good waitress, thank you very much for a meaningful and good overview! I have now listened to my colleagues' questions and your answers. Business interests and training companies have been discussed, lobbyists and readers and traditional textbooks have been discussed. Can you tell me whether the publishing of traditional textbooks is also in some way a business activity and whether any business interests may be involved in such activities? If so, should I suspect all those who talk about the need for traditional textbooks, as the Social Democrats say about the need for further training, of serving hidden business interests?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U178	I wouldn't advise you to suspect people, just as I don't suspect people.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U179	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U180	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Mr President of the Commission. The debates and debates and discussions that your committee has held in the process of dealing with this draft are significant. On the other hand, they really seem extraordinarily detailed and thorough. Today we have been talking about textbooks, school bags and municipalities, and in the past, it has been mentioned repeatedly in this Chamber that one of the most important priorities, as well as one of the motives of this draft, is the desire to raise the pay of teachers. Can you explain one more time how this bill will help raise teachers' salaries? Or did it have nothing to do with this? It seems to me that, since the details discussed have been a lot here today, this issue has somehow been overlooked.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U181	Becoming a law on this bill will certainly help to increase the teachers' payroll. In a large way, it has been calculated that this increase would be 1.2% of the teachers' wage fund, in addition to the other increases that come at the expense of the Ministry of Education and Research's own resources, but also thanks to the money provided through the state budget strategy. The growth of the payroll fund is planned at 6% and a few more decimal places. Surely it is important to you that I go into too many details, but having learned very thoroughly the wording of this bill, I have learned that here too is the devil in the details, that there is now flexibility in the draft, at least in terms of teaching resources. This means that teachers can be paid both at the expense of the teachers and at the expense of the directors' payroll fund, as well as at the expense of the educational resources fund, if they are satisfied with the need.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U182	No further questions. Thank you, Laine Randjärv! I'm opening negotiations. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U183	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I will talk again about the investment component. After being Mayor of Paide in 2005-2011, I am well aware of the importance of the investment component of the government's education expenditure line. I do not want to emphasise the year 2008 when its value reached nearly EUR 17 million in the whole country and, in particular, EUR 150000 in the town of Paide, which co-financed the renovation of the Paide Gymnasium and the establishment of a sports field. At that time, too, money could be applied for under the Structural Funds, as it is now, but a loan still had to be made to help, because there was simply not enough of that amount. Instead, I am talking about the years 2009 to 2013 when the amount allocated as an investment component in Estonia turned out to be five times lower: it fell to around three million euros and then it fell significantly further, namely 2.5 million euros in 2015. During this period, Paide had a share of EUR 28000, which we were very eager to expect, because this money could co-finance the modernisation of chemistry and physics classes as well as computer classes, provide teaching tools, interactive tablets, interior components, etc., as well as the renovation of premises. At that time, however, they did not sit back, waiting for the money boat, but they were busy writing projects to the Gambling Tax Council, Innove and KIK, not to mention EAS, and the investment component played a pretty big role in this. And if we repeat today that there is no need for an investment component, because all funds are open for investment, then the question arises. After all, we did not see in any of the 2016 budget lines the funds that could be used by municipalities to co-finance applying for Structural Funds money. At the same time, we know how difficult it is for municipalities to borrow because of a reduced income base. More than that: agreements concluded so far with local authorities, who are allowed to assist in making investments, be they sports facilities, museums or other cultural institutions, will be called into question. Even if there is money in the state budget, they often remain only promises and impose additional obligations on local authorities. I believe that the investment component is a necessary revenue item in the local government education grant line and should remain there for the future, and not as small as it has been so far. But, as we have heard, it was the Commission's decision that the investment component will no longer come into the budgets of local governments. That's a shame. But yes, this money is going to be an increase in the salaries of educators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U184	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U185	Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, it is a real pity that former local government leaders, who could be regarded as the salt of the land, forget the principles they followed when they received the leadership of the government coalition and the Commission. An example is one detail, but this detail is very fundamental. This bill may only take EUR 20000 away from someone in Haapsalu and maybe just EUR 50000 or EUR 60000 for the whole of Läänemaa. Yesterday, we listened to very important speeches on research and innovation, which spoke about the knowledge economy and knowledge-based policies. Today, however, we have moved on with a bill that is far removed from the idea of these very important speeches. As early as 1999, very thorough research was carried out by the Chairs of Public Administration, which showed that the central government was actually passing over local authorities. It has been 16 years, and this trend has been getting worse. Year after year, the central government puts its big hand in the pockets of local governments and raises money from there. To talk about an independent local government or some kind of financial autonomy in such a situation is either a conscious lie or the extreme cynicism that drives these people. I understand if a bill had come here to reduce the bureaucratic machinery of the central machine, make the work of the ministries more efficient and show us where to cut something off to raise teachers' salaries. But to make changes in the emphasis within the education sector itself, to take away this educational investment component and then to play it noble by raising teachers' pay There are other ways, good coalition people! There's 103000 in Haapsalu, 200,000 we give for school management expenses. We'll give you 13000 more training costs, you can take it out of there. There are 54700 for workbooks and other educational materials. School lunch money, which doesn't cover all the expenses, take it out of there too! 121000 you're gonna give it to me, there's still something you can do with it! You gave 171000 euros last year for tea money, take it out of there too! There's 75,000 for libraries. School milk and fruit 14000. You'll find other places where you can reduce the money and direct it to a 4% or 5% raise. Isn't the art of governance very effective? So I'm saying that you're still driving on the back of the local government and thus actually undermining local democracy. It seems to me that you already consciously do so, that all counties except Harjumaa will be emptyed. I do not see any effective measures that would cause the opposite to be said. For Haapsalu, and probably for many other municipalities, it is a detail, but a very important principle. This principle does not decorate the current government union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U186	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U187	Honourable President-in-Office! Ladies and gentlemen, This dance around the steam boiler began with Mr. Aaviksoo. Mr Aaviksoo said that the state is giving the local authorities both so much and so much for school support. However, local authorities are stealing it: the terrible amount of money we give to schools, the local authorities are stealing it, these are his words that they are stealing and using it somewhere else. But this money was not used anywhere else, it was used to hire support specialists, logos, etc. for the necessary human resources for schools. That money was school-centred. That money was for school, and it was used in school. And then they started to rename. Before, we had teachers, or slaves in ancient Greek, who tolerated children to school. But maybe all the teachers got to be teachers without raising their degrees! The teachers were raised and the school was immediately destroyed. Some are like service providers paid from local budgets and others are like teachers. Master! I think it's a tribute to the ultimate master when they say you're a teacher. In Eastern culture, the teacher is at a higher level than family. Well, we'll get there, I guess, in 4586. We'll have plenty of time until then. But now basically, support specialists' money is distributed and taken away, so-called raising teachers' salaries without increasing the overall amount of money. There was a 6% increase in teachers' salaries. Gentlemen, ladies! We're talking 54 euros a month. The teacher's minimum wage is currently EUR 900, namely EUR 954. If we cut taxes there, basically the teacher's minimum wage will rise by 20 euros in the middle. So we're cutting each other's fingers off for 20 euros per face. That's a pretty bad thing! People, do you understand what they're doing? It rewords things, and then it gets the impression that the country takes terrible, desperate care of people, including teachers, for its future generation of growers. And we claim that the Estonian state is consistent. This country is not consistent! With such educational laws, there is no need to rely on continuity at all. If the Committee on Culture is, in principle, the highest body before the government, who discusses a problem, so there are specialists, professionals, who have mastered the subject, but they are run over without a word, then forgive us, brothers, friends, comrades, uncles, what are we even talking about? We can't talk about anything. Consequently, not even the coalition will decide anything, decide on an individual or decide on two or three persons anywhere else. Before I was a schoolmaster, I could tell that story and scream. I didn't know how things were going back then. Now I'm next to it, I can see it, and it's driving me crazy. This is not how things are done in a parliamentary country! You don't just do that, that's all! Even if you have an opponent, you'll have to convince him until the opponent agrees with your position. If you can't do it, you're a bad politician. Politics is a deal. Politics is the art of agreeing. We don't have that right now. That is why I and the entire Central Party Group have a proposal. The Estonian Central Party Group proposes to interrupt the second reading of the Bill amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act and the Private Schools Act. Please come to your senses! We will be reasonable in this composition once and for all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U188	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U189	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I am talking about the main reason why this war in the Riigikogu is still going on for teachers' salaries. There is one such mysterious agreement that promises to pay Estonian teachers 120% of the average wage in Estonia. Let us honestly admit that this is not possible, it is not realistic, and let us also say this to teachers. My husband is also a teacher and he understands that the country has no money to honour that promise. Today, this promise is being pursued purely at the expense of the local government's revenue base. I do not know who it is useful to oppose the country and the local government, but most of the money that is now being used to pay teachers' better wages is being taken from local governments. If the state takes this money away from them, it is clear that municipalities cannot guarantee the desired wage increase for the support specialists. They can't pay kindergarten teachers, they can't pay hobbies teachers, they can't pay music teachers, they can't pay culture school teachers, they can't pay coaches. There are no two countries! We have one country, and these teachers are all residents of our country. There is nothing to do, this plan will widen the gap between teachers employed by local authorities and teachers paid by the state. After all, it is no secret that, at local level, teachers receive a salary of €600 to €700 and that this gap is growing. Whose interest is that? Today, you can't even believe your party and partymates. You don't even believe them because there is a political agreement, there is a coalition agreement, but it will not succeed. One example is the city of Tartu or Haapsalu. I would remind you that there is such a thing as a legitimate expectation. Local authorities had this expectation in mind for that year or for the following year. The municipalities knew that there was an investment component. When they built an object and took out a loan for it, it made it possible to repay the loan. Next year, this opportunity will no longer exist. I also recall how many cuts have been made at local government level. First, there was a cut in the training money. As you remember, in education it was 3% of expenditure, now it is only 1%, which is about EUR 3.6 million. Then about 2.6 million euros were taken away from the investment aid. We know what kind of dance is about paying support professionals' wages. And if we also count on the costs of private schools to cover the operating costs of local governments, this will amount to far more than 10 million euros, which you have put to the end of the responsibilities of local governments. I ask you, honourable politicians, what will happen in 2017. So where do you get the money to raise teachers' salaries? Tell me where more cuts can be made! There's nothing more to take from local governments, so where do you take the money from this raise? But I would be pleased if you could at least pay the teachers the average salary in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U190	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U191	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard many reproaching words, but I would first of all like to say thank you to my good fellow Commission Members, because the Commission tried to do the best job within the limits of the possibilities available. How it turned out is a little different. The point is, the results of the work are mediocre or poor. There was already talk of local governments. I have a pretty good connection with them. I have spoken to members of the Tartu Education Committee. I was a member of this committee myself quite recently, and that is why the connection with these people is quite good. I asked them what would get better. Answer: Nothing gets better. But why are we making laws that don't make anything better? It turns out that laws have one such goal that they should be effective for a long time. There should be stability, there should be consistency, so that some decisions that have already been taken can be in force. And in education, rape is one rule today, another tomorrow, the third day after tomorrow, one of the most disastrous things ever. In some countries this continuity is cared for and all the most important decisions are really made through such countries! With even more than one former head of education to maintain some continuity. We have today, and not just today, a lot of talk about teachers' salaries. It has been said that this is priority number one. Speaking in Parliament's language, I should confirm that yes, this is priority number one, but the sources of cover are wrong. The sources of coatings are not acceptable. Education is a whole. I've given many examples of horses because I'm from Tori, but I promise I won't talk about them today, or I'll be able to fight again. Then let's talk about the car. We're gonna act like we're gonna use a lot of air, thanks to the compressor, to pump the car's wheels, but there's not enough for everyone, and we're gonna decide today to pump the full teachers' tires, hoping that the car will start driving fast. We'll pump less into the other wheels. The car won't go any faster! I mentioned, even before I asked the question, that we sometimes do the work of executive power in countries with high confidence. I am thinking of the regulations that are needed to implement the policy. We're dealing with regulations. Sometimes it gets the impression that in places like this, we work in this direction. If this direction persists, what is Estonia's future? We can become a province of Europe, a stable or a producer of low-paid labour. The key point is that we have the political objective of prioritising education and allocating the necessary resources to it, but it is simply not allowed for our good people, who are doing their work in the best way in the committees. Let's change the signs! Let us rearrange the labels and think that perhaps something will get better! I would like to conclude with a parallel of heartache. When World War I ended, which we now recall again because it was a hundred years ago, a peace conference was held in Versailles. For some reason, an artist has taken a picture where everyone is happy, apart from the peace treaty, and believes that a new future awaits mankind, but a single baby in Mommy's lap has been focused separately. And she's crying. Yet peace was made! Just in case, more time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U192	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U193	And the clever commentator has written to this baby: of course he's crying. Why is he crying? After all, he's the subject in 1939! In this way, by repairing one fragment or another, or a third fragment, we will prepare new struggles and find that next time we will eliminate the second crisis or the third or fourth or fifth. Many speakers have said from this speech chair: let us sometimes look not only at regulation, not just at one cell or another, or at one section or another, let us look at the bigger picture! And when I look at this bigger picture, I feel a lot of pain in the world. We are doing a job with one consequence: if until then my good colleagues, the teachers of Tartu, cursed the Ministry, now I have to explain to them that we, the Riigikogu, have made these improvements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U194	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U195	Mr President! Good people's representatives! It's a little hard for me to start my speech today. This is precisely because yesterday, when talking about knowledge-based Estonia, I clearly emphasised that education is a whole and that higher education and science can rely on early childhood education, general education and also vocational education. This bill, which we have today at second reading in the large Chamber, is by its very nature very controversial. This is inherently controversial, precisely because the great goal of raising teachers' pay is clear to everyone, and that is the right goal. On the other hand, however, we cannot be satisfied with all the costs and the way in which teachers' salaries are being raised. As Professor Aadu Black said, we must look at the whole. It is not possible to rely on the principle that today we move the whole wagon to one side of the road and try to drive along it, then it turns out that it is not possible, and we go to the other side of the road, but again it turns out that it is not possible. The most worrying thing is that we have not been able to evaluate our education and beyond the research system as a whole, to say why, why and what kind of vocational schools we need, what and who need higher education, etc. One major problem with this bill is that we are again signaling that the state, the central government, does not trust the governments. But as a small country, Estonia can only be strong if it relies on local governments to show that it trusts its citizens. The Committee on Culture has been working on this bill. The Commission has discussed this several times and has sought to achieve its overall and major objective of bringing education support to municipalities as a single comprehensive amount, and municipalities themselves can discuss how, who and how much are paid for salaries and how much is going to be spent on obtaining learning resources. We must trust our municipalities! Unfortunately, the last agreement reached in the Committee on Culture is not the one that satisfies us. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I propose that the second reading of the draft law be interrupted in order to allow the Committee on Culture to continue working to find the best solution for our municipalities, but also for our education system as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U196	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U197	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today we have reached a second reading and let me remind you in a few words where we are in this draft procedure and what we have been debating in the Committee on Culture. As I pointed out at first reading, it has basically been a very painful process for local authorities to withdraw investment money. We no longer have a public investment programme, which in fact provided the counties with potential investment luggage, which was coerced among themselves and on which, step by step, larger objects were built after year, be they gymnasiums or stadiums. We can happily say today that there are quite large resources available for the next financial period of the European Union. However, unfortunately, we have two clauses in force. The first is that this money is not used so much on a county-by-region basis to make country-wide compromises; rather, it is a political struggle. Another and more serious problem is that, in the case of primary schools, it has been said that priority is given to regions where money is spent to significantly reduce the school network. This means that the money will actually be redirected once again to a region where the number of students will fall very quickly, and cities, county centres or even regions around Tallinn and Tartu will be excluded, where the school network will need to be expanded or adapted. But that's it. Speaking of the investment component, the problem of support services, as has been the case today at first reading. Support services are now the subject of a serious dispute within the third Riigikogu. Logopeds, social pedagogues, special educators and our entire network of support at school are under close attention. I have already spoken at first reading about this chronology, and I am not going to repeat it now, but I will give an overview of what we have discussed in the Committee on Culture. In fact, no funds are currently available to finance support services and increase the local government's revenue base. There is no solution to finding this money either. And then there's this basically replaying of the wording in the hope that we'll fool ourselves. The last major debate has been on the fact that teachers' pay cannot seem to be untied because, for some reason, it is believed that local authorities will not pay this money to the teachers until the last cent. So this sector is closed. The area of further training also gives rise to distrust, as if the resources for further training do not actually reach the teachers. All that remains is the resources of the directors' and vice presidents' salaries, but at the same time we know that they are so low a coefficient today that if the entire principal's salary doesn't come out of there, the vice president won't fit next to him in most schools. This money must be put on the local government's payroll fund, because the salary of two managers, the head of study and the head of the school does not come out of it. Now, the only solution proposed is the money for learning tools. It may indeed seem that this is only a detail, but let me remind you that the teaching tools include textbooks and workbooks, but on the basis of a new and very much debated curriculum, all kinds of other accessories. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U198	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U199	If you recall the time when the curriculum was adopted, one of the main objections was that there is not enough money to implement it. What was that all about? Take, for example, one subject, musical teaching. In this case, schools are prescribed which instruments must be present. For example, there must be a flute, and one could teach the harps to do what can be applied for on a project basis, it is necessary to provide initial knowledge of one, the other and the third, but the schools only have the same amount of money as the teaching resources that we are allocating today. Or we could take the sports equipment we've been talking about today. Similarly, in the new curriculum, it is very clear which tools should be available to schools during which period. If we now say here in the Riigikogu that look at how great we have all the teaching tools available to implement the new curriculum and for what is left, you can hire logos, then we do not know what is really happening in schools. And that's a shame. At least in this Riigikogu, when we get to third reading, we could admit that we know that the money for teaching in schools is not just the money that the state will allocate. This is where the local government puts very large sums of money. And in order to hire logos or social pedagogies, there really is nothing left. However, we wrote it down just when the country introduced a new curriculum with its annexes. Already then, it was established that the local government would have to find additional resources to implement the new curriculum one year after the year. Last but not least, there has been a repeated statement here today that if learning tools become electronic, they will also be significantly cheaper. I am pleased that there are many among us who really believe in it. I have to say, unfortunately, that experience has been reversed over the past year: buying both an expensive educational tool and a single license for a child in a class provides a search. I'll remind you how it's done. If the school has two, three or four parallels, there are also schools with seven parallels, and if one class decides to get a class 5 digital learning tool, then the company will automatically multiply that amount by up to seven, because it says that if one class buys it, others will use it for free. So in any case, all parallels have to buy this tool. And the nicest point of view for a sales company is that the licence is valid for exactly nine months. So for the next academic year, the next grade 5 buys the license again. Now think about whether this is the cheapest solution and whether we have really discussed this issue. The power to think about how digital learning tools can be available to students and how can we ensure that they are just as we expect them to be! So effective thinking for all of us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U200	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U201	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to these stories, listening to both reasoning and criticism, must inevitably draw one conclusion. And that conclusion is also the result of the debates that were previously heard in this Chamber. This is a populist draft, which has been pointed out just as if to raise teachers' salaries, but which actually conceals the fact that the state budget cannot bear the relatively modest costs that are being spent on raising wages. Exactly the same thing we can talk about the debates on private schools, during which the Minister constantly stressed that he would otherwise not be able to pay salaries unless these and other reorganisations were made. We need to think very seriously about what situation the Republic of Estonia has reached at the end of 2015. The press loves talking about stagnation. These drafts, and not just these drafts, actually speak of a much worse thing. They say that our country is in agony, because public services that have been scraped in a row and in a row and are constantly being compensated by citizens' own initiatives, and which are successively and successively being compensated by redeploying local authorities' money, cannot be guaranteed from the state budget. The revenue base of the latter is actually being cut, while at the same time adding obligations to them. It's an entire country of agony. This agony can't last long. The ongoing reform, the reform, the reform that actually does nothing to reform must end in this country. Therefore, in order to give a small boost to the end of meaningless reform, or at least to the company that got used to in the previous Riigikogu, that it was very convenient to agree between cartel parties and roll everything around, get used to, we support the initiative taken here to interrupt the second reading of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U202	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will go to the examination of the 140 amendments to the draft. Five amendments have been received. Proposal No 1 is to be taken fully into account by the commission; proposal No 2 is also to be taken fully into account by the commission; proposal No 3 is the position of the leading committee of the Estonian Centre Party. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U203	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for a vote on the third amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U204	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U205	Mr President, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask for a three-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U206	Any other suggestions? No, it's not. Thank you! Three minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U207	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party has ended. I shall put to the vote the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 32 members of the Riigikogu, 48 against, no abstentions have found the proposal's support. The fourth amendment is tabled by the Estonian Centre Party Group; the position of the commission is partly taken into account. It is recommended to look at Amendment 1. The fifth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U208	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for the fifth amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U209	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the fifth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 32 members of the Riigikogu, 49 against, the abstentions have not found support for the proposal. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. At the same time, a proposal has come from the Group of the Estonian Free Party, which has proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft 140. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party has proposed exactly the same: the second reading of the draft 140 has been suspended. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on these proposals. I shall put to the vote the second reading of draft 140 proposed by the Estonian Free Party Group and the Estonian Centre Party Group. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 33 members of the Riigikogu, 48 against, no abstentions have found the proposal's support. The second reading is closed and the eighth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U210	Let's move on to item nine. This is the first reading of the draft Act 145 amending the Tax Exchange Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. It is my great honour to ask the Minister of Finance Sven Sester of the Riigikogu for a presentation. Good fellows! We are discussing the tax bill and the exchange of information is of great importance here. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U211	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, It is true that this is a draft law amending the Tax Exchange Act and the Tax Administration Act...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U212	Minister, I am so sorry. Good fellows, please be quiet. Each line is going to be a very strong buzz right now. Please discuss our topics outside the hall and listen to the waitress, the Honourable Minister of Finance, who is in front of us, and respect those members of the Riigikogu who wish to listen to him! Thank you! Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U213	Thank you, Mr President. I'll take it from where I left off. More specifically, I've only been able to turn down the title. This is a draft number 145, and it is a draft law amending the Tax Exchange Act and the Tax Administration Act. When it comes to content, the draft allows for the start of financial account exchange with tax administrations in other countries. To this end, additions to the European Union's Administrative Cooperation Directive and the OECD Standard for Automatic Exchange of Financial Accounts in Tax Matters will be transposed into the Estonian Legal Area. Information from other countries enables the Estonian Tax and Customs Board to obtain an overview of the funds of Estonian residents abroad. The information shall be used in particular for risk analysis. Financial account information is currently exchanged with the US under the FATCA Implementing Agreement. An analogous standard has been agreed in both the European Union and the OECD. On the basis of the OECD standard, information may also be exchanged with countries that are not OECD members but have acceded to the Agreement on Exchange of Information. The bill obliges Estonian financial institutions to collect information on an annual basis on the financial accounts of non-resident natural and legal persons used to hold or earn income. A life insurance contract shall also be treated as such an account. Financial institutions must forward the information collected to the Tax and Customs Board in June of the year following. The Tax and Customs Board will forward the information to the tax authorities of the country of residence of the person in September. The exchange of information shall take place automatically without a request. Information on residents of their country is not collected in accordance with the Directive and also with the OECD standard. For the first time, financial institutions will have to provide financial account information to the tax authorities by 30 June 2017 and the tax authorities will forward the data to the tax authorities in September 2017. The exchange rates underlying the determination of the values of financial accounts shall be fixed for the first time as at 31 December of that year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U214	Minister, thank you very much for this review and presentation. There are no questions. Urve Tiidus, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U215	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members and good Minister! The draft law amending the Tax Exchange Act and the Tax Administration Act was at first reading in the Committee on Finance on 8 December. In the committee, Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax and Customs Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the draft. As has already been said, the aim of the draft is to bring Estonia's legal area into line with international developments in the field of taxation, which specifically concern the cross-border automatic exchange of information in order to prevent tax evasion. This exchange of information, as the Minister has already explained, involves tax information on financial accounts: account holders' data, the amount held in the account, taxpayers' sources of income such as dividends, interest, earnings and pensions, financial accounts as well as insurance contracts. The obligation to collect all this information falls on financial institutions, which in turn transmit it to the Tax and Customs Board once a year. Members of the Commission also had questions. They asked how many countries in the world there are no such data exchange. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that there should be no country in the European Union with which tax information is not automatically exchanged. In the US, the exchange of information is governed by the International Tax Compliance Improvement Act and the Tax Compliance Act on Foreign Accounts, shortened by FATCA. An international agreement on tax compliance and the implementation of FATCA has been concluded between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the US Government in 2014. In a global context, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD Convention on Administrative Assistance, has been open to all countries since 2002. It currently includes 46 information exchanges and 86 joined countries, according to a representative of the Ministry. It asked what would happen in countries with low- or zero-tax areas allowing for the registration of so-called offshore companies. Lemmi Oro stated that there was no known dependent territory that would have refused to accede to the OECD Convention. But not everyone has joined yet. It also asked how double information exchange would be avoided, e.g. if the same information was requested under the FATCA or OECD relevant Convention. This comment was not very detailed. It was stressed that the aim is to avoid double data exchange and that the main objective is to reduce and prevent tax evasion. All countries of the European Union exchange information on the basis of a European Union directive to be transposed by this draft. It was also asked whether China was also involved in this automatic exchange of information. A representative of the Ministry of Finance said that we have a double taxation agreement with China, and it is probably with many other countries as well. They also asked whether this bill had anything to do with e-residents. The answer was that e-residency does not preclude anything, but it does not give rise to any special treatment in the context of the draft. The bill provides cross-border information about our tax residences from other countries and provides information about these tax residences to other countries. The Commission made all procedural decisions by consensus. The decision to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session was taken by 16 December, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 4 January at 16 a.m. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U216	Thank you, good fellow Urve Tiidus. There are also questions about this comprehensive report. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U217	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The explanatory memorandum states that there are 25 financial institutions operating in Estonia. At the same time, it has been stated that 36 Estonian financial institutions have registered themselves in the US Treasury. What are the other 11?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U218	Dear Peeter Ernits! Indeed, the explanatory memorandum contains the names of the authorities concerned by this draft. And it's not a simple divorce operation. It has been mentioned here that eight credit institutions, eight branches of foreign credit institutions, four life insurance companies authorised in Estonia, one branch of a foreign life insurance company and four investment firms are concerned with this exchange of financial accounts in Estonia. 36 Estonian financial institutions have been registered in the US Treasury in connection with the FACTA Agreement. I don't have that list right now, but I can send it to you, Mr. Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-16_U219	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Representatives of the political groups, is there a wish to open negotiations? The manager will be happy to do it. There's no call. The commission has taken a firm view since the debate that the first reading must be concluded. I will set the deadline for the submission of 145 amendments on 4 January 2016 at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the ninth item is closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 4.26 p.m.
