ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U1	Good morning. Let's start the trial. First, the delivery of drafts and enquiries. There's no desire. Incoming check, please! There are currently 82 members of the Riigikogu, missing 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U2	Let's go to Tuesday's agenda. First of all, we have discussed the necessary measures of Riigikogu members Aadu Musta, Ain Lutseper, Andrei Novikov, Andres Ammas, Andres Anvelt, Andres Herkel, Andres Metsoja, Arno Silla, Artur Talvik, Dmitri Dmitriyjevi, Einar Vallbaum, Enn Eesmaa, Erki Savisaare, Hemar Leng, Heljo Pikhofi, Helmen Küti, Henn Põlliasaasa, Ivari Padari, Jaak Madison, Jaanus Kariladi, Juhan Parts, Jüri Adamsi, Kadri Simson, Kalle Mülli, Kersti Sarapuu, Kristi Aru, Küllikika Kübarseper, Lauri Laas, Mailis Reps, Maire Aunaste, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Mark Soosaare, Martin Helme, Martin Helme, Mikhail Korbi, Mikhail Stalnukhiti, Mihhail, Mihhail, Mikhail, Mikha, Mikhael Raua, Mikhael, Mikhael, Mikhael, Rakani, Mahti, Rakani, Rahti, Mahti, Rahti, Mahti, Reikaain, Reika, Mõi, Mäikkai, Näikka, Sõikka, Sõikkai, Sõi Iõikkai, Sõi Iõikka, Sõikka, Iõikka, Erika, Erika, Süüüüüüüüüüüüüüsa Iõi Ie Ie, Erika Sõi Iõi Iõi Iõe, Erika, Erika, I. The rapporteur is Andres Anvelt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U3	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the task of talking about the course of preparing the draft decision of the Riigikogu for the second reading in the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu prepared the draft decision for a second reading on 13 October and 20 October. All members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs took part in the meeting of the Commission on 20 October and Tiina Ojasalu, who is an advisor to the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, was also invited. First, the advisor gave a brief overview of the draft list of amendments and stated that the amendment of the commission consists of two parts: firstly, an amendment to the title of the draft, and secondly, amendments to the text. First, there was a debate on the amendment of the title of the draft. The Councillor explained that the Committee of Inquiry can investigate possible corruption rather than corruption that has already occurred, and therefore the title of the draft has been supplemented with the word 'possible' before 'corruption'. In the original text, the word "corruption' had been used, and in the debate already held before the first reading of the draft, the state prosecutor in the Commission referred, inter alia, to the fact that the use of the word "corruption' could cause problems to persons who could be invited to hearings by the committee of inquiry and who might be mistaken for the impression that they are already involved in corruption. Since no one is to be considered guilty of a criminal offence until a conviction has entered into force, such an amendment has also been made. § 16 of the Constitutional Supervision Law allows a person who considers that a decision of the Riigikogu has violated his or her rights to submit an application to the Supreme Court to cancel the decision of the Riigikogu. Therefore, the title of the draft has been amended according to the draft. During the debate on the amendment of the draft text, it was considered that it would be more appropriate to discuss not only the title but also the part of the text, but also to do so together before the final decision is taken. The Councillor explained that point 1 of the text of the draft text amended the wording of the purpose of setting up the Commission. While the original text of the draft was based on corruption in the management of the Port of Tallinn and wanted to examine the necessary measures to prevent future cases of this kind, the text submitted to the Commission for discussion had slightly changed the wording. According to the proposal, the purpose of setting up a committee of inquiry is to identify possible risks of corruption in order to determine whether the management and ownership supervision of the Port of Tallinn has been organised legally and effectively. The members of the Commission discussed the wording of the purpose of setting up the Commission. Some members of the Commission considered that the amendment could put the proposed Commission in too narrow a room and a framework. At the same time, the opinion was expressed that there are no significant differences in the content of the point, but the wording of the proposed amendment still needs to be adjusted. It was also expressed the view that the word 'effective' is too vague, allowing too emotional assessments to be made. On the other hand, it was considered that, since the Commission's task is to carry out assessments, the use of the word 'effective' is appropriate. As regards the functions of the committee of inquiry, as set out in point 3 of the text of the draft proposal, it was stated that the wording of the tasks is much more detailed than in the original text and that there is no departure from the wishes of the drafters. Several members of the Commission supported the rewording of the Commission of Inquiry's tasks, considering that they were now specifically formulated. It was also found that the powers of the committee of inquiry were not limited to the original text, but that its tasks were formulated more precisely. It also appeared that Tiina Ojasalu, adviser to the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, had been involved in drafting the text of the amendment. In formulating the tasks, the experience of previous committees of inquiry has been taken into account and the principle that, more specifically, the tasks of the committee of inquiry have been formulated, the easier it will be for the members of the committee to do their work. It is more difficult to plan the Commission's work if the tasks are set out in a distributed manner. The Counsellor of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu added that, if you look at the explanatory memorandum of the initiators of the draft, it sets out the same points that are set out in point 3 of the amendment, i.e. under the duties of the Commission. So if you look at the explanatory statement, you've followed the wishes of the initiators. Before deciding on amendments to the draft text, the Members of the Commission wished to clarify and clarify the wording of the purpose of the committee of inquiry. The chairman of the committee proposed that point 1 of the draft be worded as follows: "To establish a committee of inquiry of the Riigikogu to identify possible risks of corruption in Tallinn Port, in order to determine whether the owner supervision has been legal and effective'. The Councillor further explained that if the Commission decided to support the text of the draft decision, linguistic changes would be incorporated into the text and then the text would be sent to the members of the Commission for information. The committee chairman concluded that the substantive disagreements had been resolved within the committee and proposed that the Commission decide on amendments to the draft. The president put to the vote a proposal for amendments to the title and part of the text discussed on the draft. I am not going to read the changes in both the title and the text, because I have passed the debate on to you and you can also get acquainted with the materials that have been given to you. So what did the Commission decide? Amendments were put to the vote: 8 members of the Commission voted in favour, 1 against and no abstentions. In addition, Jüri Adams asked for the floor following the vote on the amendments, who said that he wanted to discuss further amendments to the draft text. For example, he does not understand point 4 of the draft text, according to which the committee is governed by the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. For him, it was a question of what the legal meaning of this point is. With regard to paragraph 7, he did not understand who the competent investigating authority should be to which the Commission should provide the material if possible criminal activity emerges. So the DA's office isn't that authority anymore, is there any more of them? He mentioned that he had a number of questions that had not yet been discussed. The Chairman of the Commission explained that any person suspected of a criminal offence, including members of a committee of inquiry, may contact the prosecutor's office. Mr Jüri Adams, Member of the Commission, asked for his position to be recorded in the minutes that there is no point in putting such a literal triviality, which does not bear any legal substance, into the draft text. Nevertheless, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 27 October, or today (consensually) and to propose a final vote on the draft (this decision was also taken by consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U4	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sincerely pleased that this committee of inquiry and I are taking the path of consensus. When I first saw that at first 51 of us were gathered, one party was very afraid, a small spasm of fear arose, but these fears were removed. Fortunately, no foolishness has been grafted onto this bill either the city of Tartu, the city of Tallinn or Eesti Energia. We're still focusing on one problem. I want to say a few words, which I think this committee of inquiry is focusing on. Last week, when the Auditor General Alar Karis was performing before us, there were too few people in the Chamber. And I think it is necessary to read a few questions and answers to him again so that you know what the National Audit Office has been talking about. In 2012, the National Audit Office carried out an audit of the Port of Tallinn. I hope that you have all been familiar with this audit already in 2012, and you will therefore have your own views. When a member of the Riigikogu, Artur Talvik, asked about the impact of audits on society, Alar Karis replied very easily that the Estonian National Audit Office does not pay too much attention to the impact and 50-60% of the proposals for audits are taken into account. But there are always exceptions, and the case of the Port of Tallinn is unfortunately this exception: the audit proposals were not taken into account. This is once again one of the places on which the Committee of Inquiry must focus, why the Port of Tallinn has been an exception, to which neither the Chancellor of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications really paid attention. Then said Peeter Ernits, a member of the Riigikogu: 'As I have heard here with surprise, the members of the board of state companies have not been responsible for their activities so far'. The members of the Council have not been responsible for their actions. 'Why? " Peter Ernits asked. Alar Karis replied that it would be possible to take responsibility if a person or a member of the council knew what he was responsible for. It turns out that a lot of confusion has taken place there in the Tallinn Port Council, people did not know for many years what they were responsible for. That is what the Auditor General Alar Karis said. There is another interesting fact. In 2012, the National Audit Office also addressed the Public Prosecutor's Office, applied to the Public Prosecutor's Office about the activities carried out in the Port of Tallinn, and for some reason this application and the reply were placed under the temple. What happened back there? What was the state prosecutor's office about? What bothered the National Audit Office? I think that the Committee of Inquiry already has enough to go on with, and there are certainly more and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U6	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U7	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has done a good job in the meantime: this draft decision has become considerably clearer. Most importantly, in the case of such committees of inquiry, it is, of course, necessary to specify the competences and precise tasks of the Commission. Perhaps in essence, which questions must be answered by the Committee of Inquiry at the end of its work on 1 May 2016, after which its mandate will end and when it is reported to Parliament from this very point of view. Perhaps the most important question that this committee faces, particularly given the fact that criminal proceedings have been going on for some time now, which will certainly be very thorough, is whether everything has actually been done in the Port of Tallinn in order to prevent such cases and whether the duty of care specified in the law has been adequately fulfilled in order to supervise the owner, in particular the supervisory board. The disclosure of the case of the Port of Tallinn, or the criminal proceedings of the Defence Police, revealed a lot of unwelcome faces. In fact, we also saw these impatienced faces among the members of the Council who, in essence, claimed that this was unexpected for them and that there was even a possibility of abuse to the extent that two board members were likely to have committed. It would therefore be reasonable to obtain answers to whether this due diligence has really been fulfilled, whether the internal control system in Tallinn Harbour is actually structured in such a way as to provide the owner with assurance that abuses are ruled out and state money is used prudently, and whether management is organised in accordance with good practice. We would not really be talking here today and at all about the Tallinn Port as a whole if criminal proceedings had not been conducted and abuses were not detected to this extent. What is the general original reason, I hope the Committee of Inquiry will identify. However, a clear link must be drawn between the fact that if in 2012 the competence of the Defence Police had not been granted to investigate possible cases of corruption in state-owned companies and major infrastructure companies, such as the Port of Tallinn, we would probably not be talking about this or several other cases today. Yes, the audit of the National Audit Office has been discussed. The National Audit Office was able to carry out this audit within the limits of its competences and possibilities. Inevitably, however, what the defence police have identified may have a clear connection with the security threat, i.e. the threat to Estonia's internal and economic security, in the case of large infrastructure companies. It has been possible to identify this through criminal proceedings and hopefully this criminal proceedings will also come to an end as soon as possible. I hope that the Committee of Inquiry will also be able to identify whether the interests of the state could have been better protected in the Port of Tallinn in such a way that the case could have been prevented or identified much earlier than the defence police have been able to do in their own proceedings. Consequently, the task of the Committee of Inquiry is not easy. For my part, I would like to wish the Members of the Commission the strength. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance supports the adoption of this draft decision. And hopefully in the spring of next year, we will be much smarter in terms of the overall internal organisation of the work of the Port of Tallinn, including the internal control system, management and whether the interests of the owner could have been protected much earlier than just today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U8	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U9	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Conservative People's Party actively supports the eradication of corruption in Estonia and believes that the Estonian political elite must set an example for this. We are very pleased that almost all parliamentary parties have contributed constructively to the formation of this committee. As the recent case of corruption in the Road Administration shows, it is not quite true what is being multiplied year after year, that corruption is not a major problem in Estonia, for example, by bringing the figures of every kind to Transparency International. In fact, corruption is a major problem in Estonia and a particular problem is the close integration of big businessmen and top politicians or political parties. It is only worth mentioning some of the few large donors who have made large donations to almost all political parties so that we can understand what the problem is. Politics, business and government must not only seem fair, but also actually be honest. If we believe and trust research bodies in punishing and grubbing up low-calibre corruption, then, at least for the Conservative People's Party, credibility is much less than the law enforcement authorities are investigating corruption that extends to high political levels. That is why we consider it essential to set up a Tallinn Port of Port Research Committee, so that all political links and potential risks are also reviewed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U10	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, As a representative of the Reform Party Group, I would, of course, like to welcome the work of such a committee of inquiry. I regret that, at the time of the creation of this committee of inquiry, no one from our group was invited to join the initiators. After that, it turned out to be an accident, not an informed choice, but fingertips happen. This does not prevent us from fully supporting the creation of this Commission and its work. I also agree in many respects with the previous speaker, who said that, in fact, if I now interpret it a little more freely, it would be good for us if such a Commission were to deal with the whole issue of corruption a little more broadly. We set up these committees here in the Riigikogu as extant when something has happened and on a case-by-case basis. After all, it would be very good and very nice if we could put together a commission here in the Riigikogu that could really highlight the risks of corruption and prevent them from happening in advance. Because if you look at what happened in particular in the Port of Tallinn, there is a question that has come through here. Some previous speakers also referred here to the responsibility and inactivity of the Council. In view of the fact that almost all political parties from this Chamber (except for very new parties whose representatives could not already be part of it) have been members of this Council over the years, I do not have the question that all political parties in the Council were somehow corrupt, but that the Council really did not have the powers and opportunities to avoid such cases of corruption directly. And that is why you might need to look a little more systematically at this whole point of contact between the state and private capital, including this example, which now happened freshly with the Road Administration, i.e. to look at all these things a little bit more broadly, at the same time deeper and precisely proactively. But, as has been said, our party will certainly support the creation of such a specific committee of inquiry as well. Let us hope that we come to some conclusions that will help prevent such incidents in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U12	There are no more requests to speak, I will conclude the negotiations. One amendment to the draft has been tabled by the lead committee. Let's go through it. Amendment 1 does not want to vote. The Commission has proposed a final vote on the draft decision 88. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of the Riigikogu Research Committee to investigate possible corruption in the management of the Port of Tallinn and the measures necessary to prevent such cases in the future. Please take a stand and vote. There were 91 members in favour of adopting the draft decision, no votes against or abstentions. The draft decision has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U13	Now the Government of the Republic initiated a draft chemicals law 72 second reading. The rapporteur is Rein Ratas, Vice-Chairman of the Environment Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U14	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! The first reading of the draft chemicals law was held in Riigikogu plenary on 24 September. a. Seven amendments were received in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications by the deadline of 8 October. The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed the draft chemicals law with the amendments received at its meeting on 13 October. a. Minister for the Environment Marko Pomerants, Adviser to the Environmental Management Department of the Ministry of the Environment Ergo Pärn, Adviser to the Quality Infrastructure Department of the Internal Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications Ago Pelisar, Adviser to the Rescue and Crisis Management Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior Mari Tikan, Head of the Chemical and Mining Department of the Technical Supervisory Board Kaimar Eilo, Managing Director of the Estonian Chemical Industry Association Hallar Meybaum and chemical and environmental advisor Kärt Kasak. The representatives of the government authority provided further explanations on the draft and the amendments. The statements and explanations of the representatives of the Estonian Chemical Industry Association were also heard at the committee meeting. They presented their views on these drafts and amendments. According to the Committee on the Environment, representatives of the Chemical Industries Association have made proposals that are worthwhile for the future, such as the creation of a single information portal at government level and a more comprehensive approach to the emergency plan. At the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, it was decided, on the basis of Amendment 1, to amend § 2 (1) of the draft Chemical Act and to formulate it as follows: 'This law applies to the chemical and the product containing it and to its handling, in so far as it is not regulated by any other law, by an international treaty ratified by the Riigikogu or by European Union law. ' The Commission supported it with one voice. The second proposal is to amend § 7 (2) (1) of the draft and to formulate it as follows: 'prepares and submits to the Ministry of Social Affairs an action plan for assessing and verifying compliance with the requirements of laboratories that follow good laboratory practice in Estonia. ' The result of the Commission's vote was to take full account of it, and it was a unanimous decision. The third proposal has been drafted as an amendment by the Commission in order to amend subsection 20 (2) (5) of the draft and to read as follows: 'to investigate, extract and process mineral resources in mining and quarrying, including activities through drilling wells' (to be fully taken into account by unanimity). The four proposals have been drafted as an amendment by the Commission to amend subsection 22 (2) (1) to read as follows: 'In the case of a category C company, the factsheet, the risk analysis and the company's emergency plan', and to add a second sentence to Paragraph 21 (3): 'A dangerous enterprise is a category C company'. The decision to take full account of it was unanimous. The fifth proposal is to make the following changes to the draft: amend § 23 by deleting the part of the text in paragraph 8 'and to inform the public of the information and accident', and to supplement Paragraph 24 (6) with the following wording: 'The Minister responsible for the administration shall, by regulation, lay down the requirements for information and information to the public on the accident' (to be taken fully into account, the decision was taken with one vote). The sixth proposal is to amend Paragraph 27 (1) and to formulate it as follows: 'A request for authorisation must be submitted to the Technical Surveillance Authority. The application shall be accompanied by the required documents required under this Act' (to be taken into account in full, by a unanimous decision). And the seventh amendment is to supplement the draft with a new § 53, which changes the numbering of the following paragraphs. Under paragraph 53 'Amendment to Environmental Liability Act', this Act is amended as follows: Paragraph 2 (1) (3) reads as follows: "significant adverse effects on marine space, surface water or groundwater (hereinafter referred to as water damage) '. Paragraph 2 (4) is supplemented by point 8 as follows: "The characteristics of marine waters in such a way as to exceed the limit values for the quality of surface water environment established pursuant to § 265 (10) of the Water Act'. And the law is also supplemented by § 411 in the following wording: "If the environmental quality limit values for substances are not established in advance, the assessment of damage to water is based on the provisions of § 2615.2617 of the Water Act'. In addition, it is proposed to consider § 54 (by new numbering § 55) 'amendment of Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act' as § 52, to read § 52 'amendment of Planning Act' as § 54 and to read § 53 (by new numbering § 54) 'amendment of State Fees Act' as § 55. The Commission decided to take full account of the amendment and the decision was taken with one vote. The following procedural proposals were also made: to put the second reading of the draft chemicals law 72 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 27 October. a (one vote); propose that the second reading of the draft be stopped (one vote); if the second reading of the draft is closed, propose that the third reading of the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the 29th day of this month and propose that the draft be put to the final vote. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U15	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. There are seven amendments to the draft 72, all of which are from the Committee on the Environment. We need to go through them. Amendment 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. There is no vote. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of bill 72. The second reading of Bill 72 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U16	Next on our agenda is the draft of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Free Party 50. Starter waitress Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U17	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, During the proceedings of the Insurance Act this spring, the issue of mutual insurance companies, i.e. insurance cooperatives, was raised several times. And the Minister of Finance, answering the questions of the MPs, stated that the subject deserves attention, but it is difficult to reconcile it with the insurance law that was then dealt with. In the Committee on Finance, a representative of the Ministry and a specialist in the field, Siiri Tõniste, also published the willingness to start drafting regulations on insurance cooperatives, whether in the form of a separate law or by adding a separate chapter to the Insurance Act, as proposed by the initiators of today's draft decision. At the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs last week, it became clear that Siiri Tõniste has already started this work in a small way, met specialists in the field and thought through a logical work programme. Therefore, the Free Party Group considers that now is the right time to go from words to deeds and legalise insurance cooperatives. The statements and figures contained in the explanatory memorandum may well be examined in more detail by anyone who is interested and willing. Here I will mark some of the most important points. As has been said, it is not possible to create mutual insurance companies in Estonia at the moment. Why this has happened, why modern Estonian legal and economic policy denies domestic mutual insurance activities, is not really clear to us. If, for example, companies providing alternative financing services are allowed savings and loan cooperatives, why are mutual insurance companies not allowed? The initiators of the draft decision consider this to be a violation of the freedom to conduct a business and could even be said to be contrary to the Constitution. What's the point of these mutual insurance companies? Their aim is, of course, to provide their members with a fair price, a service that is as favourable as possible. Such mutual insurance companies are particularly common in Central Europe and the Nordic countries. They have the largest market share in Finland, where, for example, mutual assurance companies account for as much as 80% of the market and property insurance covers almost 50% of the market. Specialists have highlighted the interesting fact that Swedbank's largest owner, holding 9,45% of shares, is just one Swedish mutual insurance company, Folksam. The European Association of Mutual Insurance Companies has collected European data and found that the market share of such insurance companies is high, such as over 40% of the market in Finland, Germany, Norway, Denmark, France, Austria, Slovakia. So, in the light of all this, there is no logical explanation why we are not allowed these domestic mutual societies. Perhaps there is no need to look back in history, because everyone in this hall knows that before the Soviet occupation, cooperative insurance activities were very common in Estonia, and this was the pre-war civil society of Estonia with the cooperative banking system, you could say, even the backbone. The Insurance Act, adopted in 1992, also allowed the insurer to operate as a mutual insurance company, but this possibility was lost in conjunction with the reform of the Commercial Code. There are only five countries among the Member States of the European Union that do not currently have such an option. To praise these cooperatives, it could also be said that their strength is flexibility, efficiency, wider choice of services offered, more varied pricing. We believe that a local mutual insurance company that would only provide selected insurance services to a limited number of members would, among other things, probably make it possible to improve access to services for a more price sensitive population. And I do not think there is any need to repeat that this is, in any case, an opportunity that clearly develops civil society. At the last meeting of the Monetary Commission, the opinion was that Estonia may not have sufficient interest in such a legislative amendment at the moment. However, if there is no legal basis for setting up an association, it is also difficult to expect interest in this sector if there is no such possibility for 10 years. As the activities and activities of savings and loan cooperatives have actually increased over the last ten years and have also reached the establishment of a cooperative bank, this trend gives hope that interest in these mutual insurance companies could also grow and that we are on the right track to give this opportunity in any case. In our view, this is absolutely essential, and I am counting on the broad support of my fellow Members on this issue. I also hope that the search for a solution to this issue will also break the normal wall between the coalition and the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U18	Questions for the waitress. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, you will be able to ask a question to both the originator's rapporteur and the Commission's rapporteur. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Good Andres! You said very nicely that these mutual insurance cooperatives were one of the backbones of civil society in pre-war Estonia, which certainly also promoted the local economy, gave it support and strength. In planning to recreate them now, you mentioned the strong, so-called plus sides of mutual insurance cooperatives, but when preparing the draft, possible risks, weaknesses and threats are certainly considered. What are some of these weaknesses and dangers?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U20	Good questioner! I can't even honestly point out the particular weaknesses and dangers here, because the experience of the rest of the world doesn't refer to them. Well, as a major weakness in the discussion of this issue, only the current lack of interest has indeed been referred to. It was also mentioned in the Commission that Latvia, for example, has a legal basis, but this possibility has not been used for some reason. It is difficult to suspect that there are any particular economic risks.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U21	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U22	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I think it's a great idea. But every time you want to create something new, you have to take something away from someone. I wonder if you have thought about whether those in possession of the market are really willing to voluntarily give up their market share. Usually this fight is pretty rough.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U23	The Estonian insurance market is currently in the hands of huge international companies. The opportunity we want would probably address a tiny fraction of this market. So I think that, with such a change, large insurance companies do not even perceive the danger in these mutual insurance cooperatives. I cannot see a major or total confrontation or lobbying against this initiative right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U24	Before the questions started, I said that one could be for the initiator and one for the Commission. Thank you. There are no more questioners. The rapporteur from the Commission is Mr Helme, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U25	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of the discussions on this draft in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Committee on Finance discussed the matter on Monday, 19 October. The meeting was chaired by Remo Holsmer. All members, with the exception of Kalvi Tõvi and Priit Sibul, took part in the Commission meeting. This was the fifth item on the agenda and the substantive debate under it was passed on by the previous speaker. The procedural decisions were such that Mr Helme was appointed rapporteur (the decision was consensual), that it was proposed to put the draft on the agenda by 27 October (this was also consensual), and that a final vote (including a consensual decision) was proposed. What, then, were the questions that went through in this regard? In particular, Siiri Tõniste, Head of Department of the Ministry of Finance, gave an overview of the regulations allowing mutual insurance companies to operate. Tõniste explained that according to the work plan of the Ministry of Finance, the intention to develop a draft law on this subject must first be sent to the public coordination circle. This will be done by 30 April of the following year at the latest. This document shall be circulated from there to a public consultation, during which interested parties shall be able to present their views and assessments within one month. After that, an impact analysis will be carried out on the basis of which it can be definitively stated whether a new regulation is necessary and, if necessary, whether a new law should be developed or whether the current law on insurance activities should be amended. Impact analysis and standards are prepared by the Ministry of Finance. Company law issues such as establishment, winding-up and bankruptcy opportunities, as well as how the form of operation fits into the Commercial Code, are dealt with by the Ministry of Justice. During the development of the regulation, the experience of Latvia and Finland will be further explored. In Finland, in particular, mutual or cooperative insurance activities are very common. In Latvia, regulation exists in law, but no insurance company in this form operates there. The Commission also had a brief debate on this subject. The initiator asked when this bill could be ready to be adopted, and a ministerial representative replied that this could happen in spring 2017. The question was whether the date of the proposal, which would provide for the draft to be put into effect as early as next year, should be changed as the Ministry provides for a longer period of procedure. This was found not to be necessary. It was also asked whether there was a demand for such cooperative or insurance companies in Estonia, and the Ministry's reply was that there was no active interest at the moment. For the Ministry, this is a relatively theoretical assignment. However, meetings with savings and loan cooperatives are planned to find out whether they have an interest in extending to this area of activity. The leader of this topic in Estonia has been a lawyer and lecturer Olavi-Jüri Luik. The representatives of the Ministry have met him. It has no intention of setting up an insurance undertaking in this way. This is also, above all, an opportunity for him to expand forms of enterprise in Estonia and improve the availability of services. It was also noted that this whole issue is covered by the Euro Directive Solvency II, which, as a result of its transposition, is currently undergoing a process in the Member States where cooperative insurance activities play a declining role. And there was also a debate on what is the best word for the word'mutual' instead of'mutual'. In Estonian'reciprocal insurance' is used, but the expression 'cooperative insurance' is probably also appropriate. That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U26	Are there any questions for the Commission's rapporteur? Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U27	Thank you. As I understand it here, colleagues from the Free Party are trying to run through an open door. The ministry is already dealing with the matter, while general trends show that there is no interest. But I'm asking if the Finns are somehow behind in time, that they have 80% of the market under it. How big could this market share still grow in Estonia if this thing were to become a living animal in the first place?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U28	Thank you. I cannot agree with this first assessment. If the Free Party and Conservative People's Party had not repeatedly paid attention to the cooperative form of insurance during the proceedings of the Insurance Activities Act, the Ministry would probably not have started to address this issue on its own initiative. How much can it grow? This was not the subject of the Commission's discussion. It is likely that at least a theoretical response will only be obtained later in the analysis process or, of course, in the practice process. As far as Finland is concerned, the widespread spread of Finnish cooperative insurance activities is still mainly due to historical characteristics.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U29	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U30	Excuse me, Mr waitress, maybe I didn't notice or you didn't say what the Commission's recommendation to the Chamber was, either to support or to oppose the draft. And how did the voices divide?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U31	I'm sorry, I didn't mention that. The procedural decision was that the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided to propose a final vote on the draft. The Commission unanimously supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U32	No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Representatives of the political groups will take the floor. Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U33	Mr President! My point is that what has come before us now is certainly not the only similar draft decision that we will have to adopt in the coming years. It's a typical situation, and this typical situation has a certain history. And this history has like two roots. One goes back to the VIII, IX and probably X Riigikogu, where a wide range of laws were passed on various economic areas. In all of these, as a rule somewhere in the general provisions chapter, there was a paragraph which stated that only public limited liability companies, or only private limited liability companies, etc., could carry out specific economic activities. There was an exhaustive list, interpreted in such a way that all legal forms not included in that list were prohibited from engaging in such activities. It should be considered as a "no" for the purpose of disabling. For example, I remember that there was once a serious discussion here about who can run ambulance companies, whether cities can, whether companies can, whether municipalities can, municipal companies can. Part of it was disabled. In my opinion, this approach is fundamentally wrong. I mean, because of the legal form, you shouldn't deny anyone anything. If the prohibition is justified, there must be some substantive, not formal, reasons. In addition, a different development emerged after going to the European Union. In fact, a huge number of European Union directives were transposed into Estonian law, but the European Union directives have never dealt with local, so-called local economic activities. We had some reason at the time to understand from this harmonisation and from going to the European Union that if we have transposed some kind of directive, because the directives do not deal with local forms of economic activity, they are all prohibited. The Estonian business community adapted to this, some stopped dealing with things, some went to Finland to continue their previous activities. The result is that we are currently faced with a situation where both types of ban are subject to a ban on disabling and another ban, an overemphasis on EU directives in areas where they are never meant to apply. The correction of these errors will probably remain within our Riigikogu. We may not be able to manage everything and something will remain in the next Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U34	There are no more requests for negotiations, I will conclude the negotiations. There were no amendments to the draft, and we need to have a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, since this draft decision requires a majority of its component members to be adopted, the Rules of Procedure Act requires us to carry out a verification of our presence. Incoming check, please! Currently 48 members of the Riigikogu registered as presently present, 53 are missing. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic, submitted by the Group of the Estonian Free Party 50. Please take a stand and vote. There were 36 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adoption, 2 against and 3 abstentions. The draft decision of 50 was not supported and is not adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U35	Next on our agenda is the first reading of draft 86 of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Member of the Riigikogu Siret Kotka will make a presentation on behalf of the initiators.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U36	Good chairman of the sitting! Members of the Riigikogu! Estonian agriculture is probably the biggest crisis in Estonia's independence period. Today, in this hall, we all have the opportunity to lend a helping hand to the farmers of Maryland and all our people, so that the table still has domestic food. Under the European Union's law on the implementation of the common agricultural policy, we will be able to grant transitional support to farmers. For your information, our farmer is currently competing not with other farmers from Estonia but with farmers from all over the European Union. And in order for competition to be fair, agricultural subsidies must also be equivalent. In addition to direct payments from the European Union, each Member State will be able to pay additional support. And if other countries, including our neighbouring countries, can do so, then the Estonian state should also be able to do so. That is why I am standing before you to support the proposal to grant transitional support to farmers from the state budget at a maximum rate in 2016 to 2020. To make it easier for you to understand the crisis in agriculture, I will describe the situation in a few words. According to Statistics Estonia, 58300 tonnes of Estonian milk and milk products were exported in the first quarter of 2015, for a total of 31,2 million euros. Compared to the same quarter of last year, the quantity of milk and milk products exported has decreased by 17%, while the monetary value of the goods has decreased by 38%. Due to the disappearance of milk quotas, milk production has increased in many Member States and this means stronger pressure on milk prices. The dairy sector is also heavily affected by the embargo imposed by Russia on imports of agricultural products into the European Union. According to Statistics Estonia, in June 2015, purchasers paid farmers an average of 23 cents per litre of milk bought in. Now we hear that these numbers have decreased even further. According to the 2013 Rural Economy Information Centre, the average cost of producing 1 kg of milk was 31 cents. Thus, for Estonian milk producers, the fall in the price of milk alone means a total loss of around EUR 3.5 million each month. Although the price of milk has fallen almost throughout the European Union, it has hit Estonia and other new Member States hardest, where the buying-in price of milk is even 30% lower than the EU average. As a result of all this, Estonian dairy producers have started to reduce the number of dairy cows. By mid-2014, we had about 99500 dairy cows, and by mid-2015, according to Statistics Estonia, their number had fallen to 94800. Which is minus 4,7%. Every cow taken to a slaughterhouse, however, means lost jobs on land. The Estonian farmer is broke, so far down that they are willing to sell pure-bred cows to Latvians or simply to the slaughterhouse. Such an agricultural policy is unsustainable. Our milk production is one of the most effective in the Baltics and we should not let this position go. But I'm afraid things could get worse. We are now in a state, in addition to everything, where farmers do not have the means to work and are indebted to suppliers. However, suppliers are still selling their debts to farmers because it is hoped that the country will help them. In addition, farmers have endured so far because of the banks' responsiveness. Like suppliers, banks have given them a holiday and made other concessions. At the same time, some banks have announced a clear message that they will not be able to continue for that long. If the Riigikogu does not decide to pay farmers' support, the crisis will deepen and not only affect farms and their employees, but a large part of other business will be paralyzed. Why, then, has the government been failing to pay transitional support for several years? I think the answer is actually simple: there is not enough public pressure to do so. However, it is not precisely because the wider public sees direct aid as mere support for farmers. But is it just to support agriculture, or is it also to think about the people's table? When an Estonian athlete goes to the EM, he runs 100 metres, not 150 metres, like the representatives of other countries. But the situation in agriculture is different. Our farmers do not have equal competitive conditions on the foreign market. Does the consumer really know why Polish peas are cheaper in our stores than domestic peas? Because the Polish state supports its farmer. The public might also know that if an Estonian farmer leaves the market due to a lack of equal competition, he will have to buy the same peas at a significantly higher price in the future. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The current situation does not only lead to the closure of a few farms. This means closing many farms, as well as the liquidation of businesses selling products and services to them. That means an army of unemployed people. Worse still, this could mean the collapse of a rural area where agriculture is the only employer. This means that there will be an increase in the price of food and a decrease in people's livelihood. If we look at the state budget next year, there are not many solutions to the problems of agriculture there. Much of the explanatory memorandum does describe agricultural subsidies from the European Union and it is advertised as a big job win. However, if we are looking for subsidies paid by our country, there is only one paragraph in the explanatory memorandum. I quote: 'An additional EUR 4600000 was allocated to the Ministry of Rural Affairs for the additional national payment to farmers. This is an additional national support for the European Union's emergency response to the crisis. The aid granted is intended to be targeted at those agricultural sectors where the crisis is the most acute in the dairy and pigmeat sectors. ' There is no word about transitional support, yet the Estonian state has the right to pay it. In order for you to understand why it is important to pay transitional support, I would point out that crisis aid from Europe, which is EUR 7.56 million for this year and to which the Estonian state has added EUR 3 million this year, will only cover a very small part of the costs that farmers have incurred. The dairy sector alone already considers its losses to be more than EUR 50 million, a pig growing of EUR 15 million. Thus, the amount of aid provided for this year, amounting to 10,56 million, is a drop of water into the sea, which does not actually cover the costs of one sector, let alone the whole. In September, 101 tractors were in front of Toompea Castle. It was a demonstration of farmers, the aim of which was for the government to begin to understand the concerns of Estonian farmers. The statement requested that the transitional payments allowed by the European Union and paid to farmers in all other countries be reflected in the state budget for next year. From next year's state budget, we will be able to pay about 21.5 million euros to Estonian farmers. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I ask you to support the Estonian farmer and the domestic table and to vote in favour of this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U37	Questions for the waitress. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U38	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Last night, I gave a short speech to a very empty hall about "Knowles of Reality." I was talking about a farm with about 60 dairy cows and the owner got 37 cents of a litre of milk last year, now 23 cents. The situation is extremely bad, nor did 101 tractors drive in front of the house. But my question was what should be done. At the time, several protestors were ready to throw eggs at the Prime Minister's car and also at the president. I held them back. Now, should I tell them to come back with a pitchfork? What should I do?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U39	Thank you, good questioner, I think that, first of all, all members of the Riigikogu, who are 101, should vote in favour of transitional grants. This would be the first step that farmers are looking forward to and that will help them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U40	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U41	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I have tried to explain to myself why the coalition currently in power is so arrogant about Estonian farmers. I haven't found the right reason for this. We are at the absolute top of Europe with our agriculture, especially milk production. A simple peasant logic says it's very foolish to let it all go down in a short time. I do not know whether more foolishness has been done in Estonia in the near future than what is being done now. I am saddened that farmers who sit in the Riigikogu also support this policy. It is virtually impossible to restore it, to bring it back to the same level as it is today, and it is also more expensive to repeat. However, for myself, I have come up with a reason why this is the case: after all, so few people are occupied in agriculture that their contribution to the elections is very small. It's just that the farmers are being patronized. Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U42	Thank you, good questioner! I share with you the view that we must support farmers, because our agricultural level is good. For us to be successful in the future, aid must be given to the country at times of crisis. As far as the elections are concerned, farmers are divided between different parties and their word is divided. That is why we can see that there are farmers in the Riigikogu, but they do not speak very actively for the protection of farmers, even though they could do so. I hope that people will understand that agriculture is one of the cornerstones of Estonia's rural life. It must be maintained, it must be valued and we must keep these jobs. Let us be active and, good farmers who are in the hall, be sure to support!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U43	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U44	Thank you very much. Good waitress! In your speech, you set out parallels with Poland. We very often compare ourselves with the neighbouring countries. The conditions in Poland are somewhat different; there is an enormous proportion of agriculture. We often also talk about Finland and Sweden, who are still, to be honest to the end, on a very different level. Perhaps you would remind those sitting in the hall how these things are organised and how the problems have been tackled in Latvia and Lithuania, who are much more like us than Poland or Finland, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U45	Thank you. The Estonian state has not paid a single cent of the transitional allowance for the last two years. In total, farmers have lost nearly EUR 50 million. In previous years, however, Latvia and Lithuania have found money to support their farmers. Our committee has also been attended by the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruuse, who pointed out that next year Latvians would have to pay farmers some EUR 8 million in additional support, Lithuanians almost EUR 32 million. So neighbouring countries support less or more, but we do not allocate a cent to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U46	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am convinced that the reason why top-up is not in next year's budget is that it is not a priority for the government. When we talk about Poland, Poland has a separate farmers' party and they stand for farmers, demand subsidies, etc. Perhaps we should behave differently in Estonia, for example, explain to the government that top-up is not really about supporting farmers; it is actually about supporting the budget, which will bring money into the budget as taxes next year. Maybe we just have to call things by other names. Let us not call it support for agriculture, but support for the budget. Why don't we do something like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U48	Thank you for your good proposal. It doesn't change what's inside. The question is very simple. If we want to have domestic food on the table, and if we want to have good and healthy food on the table, we should still support agriculture. We have had a Prime Minister here to perform and talk about how he loves Estonian milk and Estonian pork, but no steps have followed. And when the Minister of Finance came here to introduce the state budget to the Riigikogu, he made it very clear that Estonian agriculture is not one of the priorities for the current government. I think that's the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U49	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U50	Thank you, good Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Here's what I'm gonna ask. It is clear that, if the top-up has not been paid for two years and is not yet included in the budget, it is now very difficult to get into it further. But would it be an option for the Ministry of Rural Affairs to find this amount by rounding up the Ministry's budget to meet farmers in this regard? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U51	Thank you. I think that's definitely a good suggestion. But the current Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruuse, still hasn't found the money. So I'm not very optimistic about that. If we want this money to reach farmers, then this opportunity must be found by the Riigikogu, which is currently processing the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U52	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Here's the question. You mentioned that farmers work in debt to banks and suppliers. How long can such a situation last for a few months or six months? When are the bankruptcies going to come and sell the farms? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U54	Thank you. Some milk producers have reported that they intend to cease their activities at the beginning of next year. But the answer to why this situation has been going on for a long time is simple. Suppliers made debts because they hoped that the Estonian state would understand the need to pay transitional support. The banks also granted a payment leave, hoping that the government would understand it. And now that the state budget is adopted, where there is no money, no doubt everyone wants to get their money, and a wave of bankruptcy begins. So obviously, at the beginning of next year, we'll hear sad messages.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U55	There are no further questions for the originator's waitress. Thank you. The rapporteur for the Monetary Commission is Urve Tiidus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U56	Honorable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! On 20 October, a meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs took place on the agenda of the first reading of Riigikogu draft decision No 86. The title of the draft is, as you already know, 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic'. Siret Kotka, member of the Estonian Centre Party Group, presented the contents of the draft to the Commission. Mai Talvik, Head of the Agricultural Market Management Department, participated in and answered questions from the Ministry of Rural Affairs. It was said that the draft was part of the Committee on Rural Affairs in substance, but since it was still in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we discussed the matter thoroughly. The draft makes, I repeat, a proposal to the Government of the Republic to grant transitional support to farmers from the state budget in 2016 to 2020 at the maximum rate allowed by the European Parliament. The payment of "transitional support" from the state budget is allowed by Parliament to compensate for the difference between direct payments in the old and new Member States of the European Union. Several questions arose during the debate. The payment of grants compared to neighbouring countries, such as Latvia and Lithuania, was touched. It has been shown that Latvia will pay part of the aid to the dairy sector this year, namely 30 to 40%. Lithuania was also mentioned, but there was not much information about it. However, it was announced that not all new Member States would pay transitional support. The representative of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, Mrs Talvik, said that the Ministry has applied for additional funding from the state budget for transitional support. However, this new draft budget does not foresee this funding at this stage. It was also said that in order to pay the transitional payments, the European Commission has drawn up a very precise distribution scheme by sector, who can be paid as much as the cereals sector, how much for dairy cows and how much for other cattle farmers, how much for each suckler cow, etc. The Commission also explained that 2015 has been a very good year of grain cultivation in Estonia, so this support would not be practical. However, according to the transitional payment distribution scheme, it would be cereal producers who would fall most of the aid. The question was whether the aid could be differentiated according to whether it was small or large producers. The answer was that it was not possible, it is a single CAP package. One question concerned the fact that Estonian milk production has so far been very successful. Compared to demand, 170% more raw milk is placed on the market, while exports have decreased. Against this background, the question arose as to how practical it would be to pay more money there. The discussion highlighted the need to retain jobs in the countryside, which could be achieved by the payment of transitional payments. If the current volume of milk production is not supported, it will be very difficult to reverse the process later, once these jobs have disappeared. This was another argument as to why transitional support should be paid. The Commission was asked whether the Committee on Rural Affairs had discussed this issue separately. Turns out it's not. Following the meeting of 20 October, the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs had a meeting on 22 October with the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus, who added important information to what he heard on 20 October. Indeed, in 2016, Estonia's agriculture, rural development and fisheries are planned to be supported in total, perhaps it is good to know this figure at 310.6 million euros. These support will focus on improving the competitiveness and viability of agriculture, rural and fisheries. Due to the difficult situation in important agricultural sectors, Estonian farmers will receive emergency crisis assistance, as Mr Kotka has already mentioned, 7.56 million euros, with the Estonian state also adding 7,6 million euros to farmers by decision of the European Commission. It is also important that EUR 3 million can be paid out to farmers within this year's number due to changes in the state budget. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be put on the agenda on Tuesday 27 October and put to the final vote. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U57	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U58	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! You said at the Commission meeting that not all the new or newer Member States would take advantage of the possibility to pay additional payments. Were there any details as to which countries these were? We've usually been talking about the neighbors around here. Who were we talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U59	Thanks for the question, but unfortunately I cannot answer anything more specific. I cannot tell you which new Member States behave differently. As I said, Latvia is paying 30 to 40%, Lithuania is paying more, but, as usual, it must also look at everything in a wider context. This was not the Commission's issue, but we know that this transitional support will also be paid to tobacco producers in Europe, for example. This does not concern the new Member States, but it has been said that tobacco producers produce tobacco that is not used to produce cigarettes. And maybe it's a good thing they don't make cigarettes out of it. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U60	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U61	Thank you, manager. Dear colleague Urve! I think your tongue slipped when you said that no additional transitional support would be paid in all the new Member States. This statement certainly did not sound in the Commission, because Estonia is the only one who does not pay. It should be stressed that Estonia is the only one and I think it will be the only one during this government. All other Member States will be paid.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U62	Dear Tarmo Tamm, thank you very much for this observation. I'll take that into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U63	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U64	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I'm asking you the same thing Siret Eagle asked. When 101 large tractors were in front of Toompea Castle and they were of no use, people wanted to throw raw eggs at the Prime Minister and the President. I tried to stop them. Should I have done it or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U65	Good colleague Peter Ernits! I think you acted like a gentleman or a gentleman. Somebody's got to follow some good manners. But in itself, how to achieve transitional support by throwing raw eggs is a very interesting question. We could talk to you about this separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U66	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I understand that this is, of course, a political and emotional question in some sense, but I am trying to approach it pragmatically. Did the Committee on Monetary Affairs make some kind of calculation of what would happen if the state did not pay transitional subsidies? How many farms can close their doors in this case, how many farms can they shut down? Dairy farming may be going into grain cultivation, and with it, our country will lose its tax money, as the need for labour in cereal farming is much lower. How much will the Estonian budget lose because of this decision, and how much could we benefit from paying transitional subsidies?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U68	Mr Repinski! The Committee on Finance did not make such a comprehensive forecast, or rather did not make a forecast at all. In itself, however, if you think about it, Estonia's problem with milk production is how to earn milk in such a way as to make it into products that can be exported successfully. That opportunity hasn't gone away. I understand that people who are more familiar with rural areas and dairy producers themselves, who are better aware of the circumstances, consider it to be some kind of utopia. But I'm just saying what the rural people have thought. If we could organise entrepreneurship like this, restructure it a little, so that all milk production can be delivered to new markets thanks to added value, it would be very helpful. Then the production facilities wouldn't be empty. I'm sure there's a lot of good suggestions, but I'm not the right person to share them here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U69	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U70	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I understand that you are not an agricultural specialist, but it seems somewhat strange to me when you say that it was a good year of cereals, so it is not appropriate to pay the supplement. At the same time, you acknowledge that no very thorough analysis has been carried out. Now I ask you such a spiteful question, please do not take it personally! You're probably doing pretty well right now, because your salary is good, like all of us here. But when you are told that it is not appropriate to pay you extra money so that you can, for example, buy a better house or invest somewhere, you think it's not quite right. From a farmer's point of view too, it is very reasonable that if they have done well in one year, it would be good if they still receive additional support to buy more land, improve their technical base, make breeding, etc. It's not dumped money, this money doesn't go to anyone...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U71	...just like that. Here's the question. In my opinion, the future of Estonian agriculture and rural life is specifically a matter of the survival of our nation. Do you share this view or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U72	Now, a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U73	Thank you for asking, Mr. Helme. What can I tell you? Agriculture is an important part of the Estonian economy; it provides a large part of gross domestic product. But when we talk about how to make decisions on transitional support, it is, of course, primarily the decision of the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Government of the Republic. And if you mean these procedures, the budget is currently in the process. In this Chamber, there is the impression that there is no direct support for anything in agriculture and other rural sectors. However, I stress that Estonia pays agricultural subsidies in very substantial amounts. This money will amount to a total of EUR 310.6 million for next year, plus emergency crisis assistance. These figures have been mentioned several times here. Agriculture is one of the most supported sectors. We cannot say that due to the lack of direct payments, rural areas are about to die out. However, there is no danger. There will, of course, be situations that are more complex, and I would like, with all my heart, to never predict any negative scenarios, that these situations will be resolved and not banks will determine the future of the Estonian dairy sector. However, we will look at the sums that go from the Estonian state budget to support agriculture and rural development in general. Listen to the Minister of Rural Affairs! I will, for example, bring up pig meat production: the state buys a considerable amount of canned pig meat together. These are the steps we can say that, oh, they are so small, but they are, in fact, the kind of steps that are not taken in all sectors of the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U74	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U75	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In this hall, it has been stressed on several occasions that we are already producing more milk than is being consumed in Estonia. But it's not a justification that we're now carrying dairy herds into meat combines. Milk production is of paramount importance for our agriculture and rural survival. Did the Commission also discuss how the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Government could contribute to increasing exports of dairy products in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U76	Thank you for this question, Mr Arno Sild. As we know, the Ministry of Economic Affairs also employs a minister in this area who has to deal directly with this issue. Listening to how all marketing takes place in the world and what the people of Estonia have practiced in this area, it is clear that this is a very complex topic of communication and communication. Anyone who can contribute, please do not keep your contacts and relationships quiet! But at the level of the government, it is certainly the property of the respective minister and also the property of the EAS. As they say, the problem never needs to be seen as a problem. I haven't made up that sentence, but the problem has to be seen as an opportunity. In fact, brilliant Estonian people, take the matter up and sell our milk or make out the products that are needed on the market. We see what's happening in the world. The market seems to be saturated here in the western world and also in Asia and elsewhere, but there is always a shortage of the best product, which everyone will run into if you allow me to fantasize a little bit as a non-milk manufacturer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U77	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U78	Good waitress! I will continue with what Mr Helme has already talked about. I have this feeling that if we are torn apart from these subsidies, we are still based on the Stalin-Council view that rural life is only agricultural production. The important things are quinters per hectare, tonnes of milk and beef, the number of eggs, and everything else, the rest is irrelevant. So here's the complaining about the cows going into the tentacle. Let them go. In the end, there was also a crisis at the Järvakandi glass factory, and going to the dairy cows' meat combinate is equal to the Järvakandi glass factory crisis or, for example, what happened in Võhma. Nothing can be done, companies go bankrupt and it cannot be avoided from time to time. If we are now talking about state aid, is this 310 million directly intended for agricultural production or is it intended for rural areas as a whole, which is more important than keeping milk production at the same level in order to maintain its nationality?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U79	Thank you, Igor Gräzin! The question is understandable. This support, EUR 310 million next year, is planned to support agriculture, rural development and fisheries in general. In essence, this means that these subsidies will, however, be focused on improving competitiveness in these areas. Another important objective is to ensure the viability of production. If this money can really increase competitiveness and viability, I think that this amount may be higher next year. But maybe companies will become so viable and competitive that they can do better on their own. At this point, I repeat, I do not predict such things. However, I wish that Estonia's rural and agriculture would do well.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U80	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U81	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! Pork has been the traditional food of Estonians for centuries, if not more. Still, it's been salted in a barrel and kept over the winter. By the way, pork is also the main food in many other parts of the world, on the Easter Island and on the other islands of Polynesia, Hawaii, and no Muslim goes to these areas because it eats the most pork. And since pork eating and pig rearing are a very important part of Estonian tradition, does the Commission not want to discuss as an important national issue how to keep pig farming? In view of Estonia's traditions, pigs must be considered to be far more important than rape, ostriches and other species which are also grown in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U82	Thank you for your comment, Mr Vasilyev. This proposal reached all the members of the Riigikogu, and I think its proper landing point is on the Committee on Rural Affairs. I certainly support that in my own right. Traditional foods and the promotion of this culture are certainly very important in Estonia's life and let us be honest about whether these crises have reduced our desire to eat pork. On the contrary, given the small price changes, pork products have become even more popular. At least in my eyes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U83	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Külliki Kübarsepp on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U84	Good Chairman! Good ambassadors! I was moved by the circus that we saw during the last vote. It was a real missing strike by the IRL, the socks were sitting there, but they didn't press the button, and they did it here in the middle row. In the vote on this draft, we will show how we support small and medium entrepreneurship. In rural areas, this is an important issue because our people have survived over the centuries because we have had life in the country. Insurance companies, cooperative banks, communities, civic schools, different forms of cooperation in order to access the markets, all of this must be encouraged by the Estonian government, but not by tackling competitive conditions by weakening one business sector and one form of enterprise by clearing the market. This cannot be a government priority. The Free Party supports small and medium entrepreneurship. In our view, transitional rural support must also be paid in full, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. Why? Our cultural area is such that, especially in agriculture, it can be seen that large producers are in a slightly better position than smaller under competitive conditions, and therefore smaller ones must be supported more. My message to the government departments is this: we will stop supporting the monopolies! We read about all kinds of scandals in the Estonian Express, Äripäev and other media. We have to stop this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U85	Let me remind you that we are discussing draft decision 86. Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U86	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable waitresses! Honourable hall! On this subject, on behalf of our group, I would like to emphasise the aspect that this really is not just agricultural support. This is support for rural life in Estonia as a whole. 310 million seems to be a very large amount of money, but if we look at this amount in more detail, it will spread out on other areas of life, and this backbone, on which everything is really based on agriculture on land, will only be part of it. I understand the pragmatic urban people who say that the crop year was a good year, so there is no point in giving them more. Milk is produced more than we can consume anyway, so there is no point in giving more money. There's a point in giving more! Not only do we live in the present, we live for the future, and the future requires constant investment. A year ago, I went to France in April, and while we had snow and slime all over the place, the first harvest was already harvested from the fields, all kinds of vegetables. This shows how we are in competition: we are already in a more climatically difficult situation than a large part of the rest of Europe, who at the same time pays regular support to its farmers and, within the framework of other measures, to the whole rural area. If we do not pay regularly and give only one-off grants, then we will not increase the competitiveness of our farmers, but our competitiveness will remain wobbly where it has always been. Our group supports the restoration of regular additional payments to the agricultural sector. It is a question of competition in the agricultural sector, of the survival of our rural areas and of the competitiveness and survival of our people. I agree with the Commission's rapporteur: we really need to look at the picture more widely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U87	Ivari Padar on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U88	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I wasn't really gonna take the floor, but then I thought we should take it. First of all, I congratulate the authors of the bill. They have contributed, showing the concerns that Estonia has in agriculture. As always in all budgetary negotiations, as far as I have seen them, October and November are devoted to getting some more money and taking something from somewhere. What I wanted to make my point of view about, however, is the impression that the government did nothing. I also have an August Estonian Päevaleht in front of me, where I have given an interview as Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee and have talked about the minimum amounts needed to pay crisis aid through the Ministry of Rural Affairs. I have said here that the absolute minus, which we can talk about, is in the order of EUR 10 million in the budget for next year. What took place in September has certainly been very helpful in the way farmers came to express their views. We can now say that, together with the European Union's crisis assistance, we are paying around 15 million dollars of crisis assistance. In addition, there has also been an important measure such as supporting pig farming by ordering canned products. And another important thing that has not been said here: in fact, nearly EUR 1.7 million has been found to be added to the Agricultural Registers and Information Office in order to increase its capacity. So when I spoke in August about the absolute minimum of 10 million, the amount has increased to 20 million during that time. And it should not be blamed that there are 7.6 million European Union funds in it. On the basis of the proportions, the size of the Estonian state and how much money was paid in the event of a crisis, the share of Estonia should have been in the order of 2 million. Thus, it can be said that the officials of the Ministry of Rural Affairs have worked hard to increase this amount. Our emergency situation has been taken into account, and this is something that deserves recognition. When it comes to different sectors, I believe that our Prime Minister is also worthy of recognition. On the one hand, the Estonian state has decided to buy pork from the market for 1.7 million dollars, if I remember correctly, to have it preserved and thus alleviate the situation in the pigmeat sector. On the other hand, we hear that the meat industry imports raw materials, although they are not forced to do so. And in such a situation, it is very remarkable that the Prime Minister drew attention to it and pointed his finger at them. But from the farmers, unfortunately, we see zero emotions. Rather, there are excuses that import is good. What I want to say now is that it is not the right thing to say, as if the government had not made an effort to resolve the crisis. As far as the top-up is concerned, of course, the Ministry of Rural Affairs could have allocated these EUR 7.5 million and said it was a top-up, but it would have been pay-up at the end of next year. However, the government has decided to pay the grant as soon as possible using crisis relief instruments, and this has been the right decision. We'll take it any way we want. In any case, any additional aid to farmers is welcome. I very much welcome those who have spoken for it. But to say the government has done nothing, there's no way. Compared to Latvia and Lithuania, we do not know what the Latvian and Lithuanian budgets will be in 2016. I have some preliminary forecasts, but as far as the top-up payment is concerned, it is obviously only partial in Latvia. So Ivari Padar, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, has proposed to the government, the government has taken these proposals almost double into account and, consequently, I cannot support this proposal. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U89	On behalf of the Group of the Martin Repinski Centre Party! Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U90	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that there has already been a great deal of talk on this subject, and there is still a heated debate in the Chamber between the coalition and the opposition. I am honest to say that at such moments I am pleased that I am in opposition because I see the behaviour of those delegates who promised farmers that they would stand up for their interests to the end, but either in this Chamber they must sit quietly or talk about how much the Estonian state has done for farmers and that there is enough. I agree that Estonia has really done a great deal in Estonia to support agriculture. Nobody's saying nobody's gonna do anything and nobody's gonna react. Absolutely! Times are different and situations are different, and right now we need to understand that we are not talking about the crisis situation, we are talking about competition. Farmers from other countries have the opportunity to compete with our farmers in a completely different way, because they are paid top-up, we don't. I think it is primarily a matter of attitude. When we started talking about the crisis, we should not forget where it started. This was the beginning of Estonia's support for sanctioning policies, along with all economic operators, including farmers. But it would have been logical, and it was also said at the beginning, that it would be compensated for the market, which will disappear, that the losses that will come will be compensated either from the state budget or from the budget of the European Union. But if we look at the sums that are actually coming, they are tens of times less than the actual losses. It's not a loss, it's a loss. This is the amount that farmers actually spend on a daily basis and do not get anything back because the price is too low. When we were talking about pig meat and the pig farming sector, a great deal has been said about canned meat, as if it saves our pig farmers at least to some extent. It gets brought up all the time. I understand that this is really a very good PR move, but in fact, only 1% of Estonian pork is bought in this way. In this sense, it is a relatively small and pointless measure. My point, which I have already talked about many times here, is that it is not worth taking it as top-up support for farmers. It is still about supporting the Estonian budget, and this money will certainly come back very quickly. When we look at what farmers spend the top-up on, we see that most are going to pay salaries and pay some of the bills. More than half of the salaries, as we know, will immediately return to the Estonian budget. The same is true for invoices and other costs: it must not be forgotten that some amount of tax comes into the budget immediately, but even more will be received next year and in the following years, if a farmer does not close his farm, he will continue to work, he will pay people's wages. Mikhail Korb asked a very constructive question as to when the wave of bankruptcy would come and why it would not be as massive as everyone predicted. Actually, it's massive, but farmers aren't people who talk about it all the time. Don't think that farmers enjoyed coming here to Toompea in the fall, that it was a very nice event for them. I didn't have a job at home, and it was a very difficult journey. If you've been following things, you'll know it was definitely the case. If we are talking about why agriculture in Estonia still needs to support, why these subsidies have to be paid, why more subsidies should not be paid to social or other sectors, it should not be forgotten that if we do not support agriculture in a crisis situation, as it is, then tomorrow, for example, our dairy industry may be dead. And then we won't get any tax money and we won't be able to pay pensions in the future, and so on. I'm sorry that I'm a little emotional and left my mind unfinished when I started talking about Mikhail Korb's question. The idea was why the cessation of production is not as massive as it might be expected. The point is that farmers simply cannot stop their activities, even if they see that they are working in the minus. The reason is very simple. Most farmers have applied for and received investment support to buy technology, reconstruct their farms, etc. This makes sense because without it, it would not be possible for Estonian agriculture to be sustainable. But this investment grant means that a farmer cannot stop his business within five years, or he will have to pay back all that money to the European Union or to the fund from which he has received the money. That would mean an impossible debt burden for him. Similarly, bankruptcy proceedings are not as simple as most farmers have pledged their property or signed surety agreements, so that they are responsible for their business, their farm activities or other agricultural activities with all their property. I think it's a matter of attitude. At the moment, it is not a question of whether we support one area or another in the Estonian economy. The question is whether we support the Estonian budget, whether we want the Estonian budget and the Estonian economy to be sustainable in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U91	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments to draft 86 have been received. The commission has proposed that the draft be put to the final vote. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Dear colleagues, since Bill 86 requires a majority of the Riigikogu membership to be adopted, we will do a presence check before the final vote. 57 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, there are no 44. Dear colleagues, I will put to the final vote draft decision 86. Please take a stand and vote. 38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 4 against and 3 abstentions. The Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party was not adopted. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U92	We will move on to the fifth item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law amending the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law on State Fees initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted to the proceedings of the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Electronic Communications Act and the Law amending the Law on Electronic Communications and the State Fees Act. The main objective of the draft is to encourage more efficient use of numbering. First, the grounds for refusal to renew the licence and for withdrawal of the licence shall be specified. The number must be effectively put into service within six months of receipt of the licence. The number is in use if there has been an incoming or outgoing traffic during the period of validity of the licence or if the number is linked to a valid communication service contract and the number is dialable. Secondly, the holder of a number permit is required to use the numbers of the Estonian numbering plan for the provision of services in such a way as to be able to call them or send a message to the customer of another Estonian communications company. The aim is to prevent fraud schemes for special tariff calls. There have been cases where licence holders have deliberately left Estonian communications networks without creating access to certain numbers, but calls from abroad are allowed into the network. On the basis of this, scam schemes have sometimes been built up. Thirdly, the Technical Surveillance Authority is granted the right of access to the log files in the presence of the Special Committee on the supervision of the security authorities of the Riigikogu and the representative of the liaison company. On the proposal of the Ministry of Justice, the period for maintaining log files and applications will be extended from five years to ten years. It is necessary to extend the time limit in order to ensure that the logs as evidence are kept until the time limit for the lodging of a complaint for unlawfulness or damages, which is also ten years, has expired. And fourthly, the entry into force of the universal service payment rate from 1 January 2016 will be postponed to 1 January 2020. This is because communication services are very well available to residents in Estonia and there is no need to appoint a communication undertaking with universal service obligations. There is therefore no unreasonable burden on the telecommunications company. Thus, there is no need to set the above-mentioned rate of payment and the corresponding deadline is postponed. Please support the draft and end the first reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U94	Dear Minister, You have at least one question. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U95	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Please tell me if this will in any way change the use of such "inch-free" numbers as 1800 and 1400 registered in the United States. Will they remain free of charge when calling from Estonia, as they are around the world, or will something change?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U96	Thank you. This bill should still concern Estonian numbers. These scams that have been referred to, the examples that have been given, concern numbers that are like Estonian numbers, but when you call back, they turn out to be a special tariff. It's about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U97	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I would like to ask Erki Savisaare, member of the Economic Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this issue at its meeting on 13 October. In addition to this technical question, which was presented by the Minister here, three issues emerged more acutely. First, the same change in the time limit for recording eavesdropping log files offered a lot of discussion. For this length, ten years, no one had any objections, and it seemed reasonable. However, the question arose as to who should manage these log files, whether this should still be done by the communication operators or could be imposed on the State. The opinion was also sought from the prosecutor's office and the IT association also sent its position. In their opinion, it is reasonable for these log files to be kept by a public authority instead of a communication company. This is precisely because today, regrettably, a situation has arisen in which, despite the fact that the State has partially compensated the telecommunications operators for the costs incurred to ensure certain technical solutions and the failure to maintain requests for access to certain operations log files by law provides for a misdemeanour procedure, communications companies have not been able to comply with this obligation as expected in recent times. In order to ensure that no one's legal interests are affected and that Estonia's security is better guaranteed, it could be dealt with by a public authority in the future. Whether the prosecutor's office itself or someone else is the subject of discussion. If the prosecutor's office itself does not have the technical solutions or knowledge to store such log files, these facilities are available in the Estonian National Archives, which has both competence and authority to handle this information, including information containing state secrets. True, the addition of new tasks must be accompanied by additional funding, but it is certainly cheaper to keep logs in the National Archives than to build a new solution elsewhere. As far as the price is concerned, the volume of these files is so small that we can't talk about very high costs here. Under no circumstances does it make sense to create a new system to store only these log files. The second question, which was not covered by the original text of the draft law, was § 90 of the Electronic Communications Act, which was brought to the attention of both the Information Technology Association and communications companies. This section deals with specific conditions for the transmission of television programmes on the cable network. One question was why specific conditions should be imposed on cable if they have not been placed on any other distribution. For example, what makes satellite coverage better or worse? One proposal proposed a more universalisation of the wording of this section so that these conditions would apply equally to all distributors. The same paragraph also refers to the so-called black-carry obligation, which provides for the mandatory transmission of television programmes where the programme producer does not charge the distributor for it. And all programme producers have the right to charge a reasonable remuneration to a communications undertaking providing a cable service. In general, commercial channels here do not see a problem and there is no contradiction with them. However, we do have Estonian Public Broadcasting, which is subject to certain special conditions. In particular, national broadcasting channels must be broadcast regardless of whether they charge or not. This has put them in a certain position of strength in the negotiations with programme promoters. They themselves claimed that they did not charge for the transmission of the television program, but for the payment of royalties. However, these matters are claimed to have been formulated differently in the contracts and are also charged for distribution. This isn't quite right. This is not a matter that could be directly resolved by this law, but there is a certain contradiction. The third major subject was the universal service, which essentially concerns payphones, or payphones and telephone directories, which we have not had for some time, but according to the law, we should have them back from 1 January next year. They were lost in their time because there were no consumers, there was no interest. Since this interest has not recovered by now, the offer is to postpone this matter. When it was examined why we are delaying, why we are not taking down this universal service at all, it was justified by the view that maybe one day this interest will arise and better if all this regulation is enshrined in the law. Let's just move that deadline back to five years. As a result of the discussion, it was decided by consensus to propose the completion of the first reading and to set the deadline for amendments at 12 noon on 5 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U99	Good waitress, thank you. There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No, I don't. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 51 should be terminated. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 51. a on November 5th at 12 noon. The first reading is closed and the fifth item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U100	We will move on to the sixth item, which is the first reading of § 34 of the Act on Supplementation to the Law on the Election of Local Government Council, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. I would like Mr Andres Herkel, member of the Riigikogu, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U101	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The faction of the free party submitted this correct motion for a laconical amendment to the proceedings of the Riigikogu on 3 June. The aim is to supplement the Local Government Council Election Act with a new paragraph, which would say that the number of candidates on the circuit list may not exceed twice the number of mandates in this district. To come to the subject, one of the more general remarks that in Estonia the electoral laws have been amended in the near future mainly because the participants in the elections have acted in such a way as to create either a strange or resentment in the public, or because the elections have given an unexpected result in the sense that someone with very little support has received a compensation mandate. It is mainly because of this that we have recently adjusted electoral laws. They have been adjusted in the same direction so that the voter's vote will have a greater weight in determining the election result. This is the result of the election of the Riigikogu. There is also a limit in history that regulates the length of the Riigikogu election lists. Currently, no political party can put out more than 125 candidates, which is the total number of mandates for all circles, plus two more from each district. A similar restriction has never been imposed in Estonia in municipal elections. But especially the last local elections in Tallinn gave such an interesting picture that the number of times the lists of political parties exceeded the number of council mandates began to approach six times the number of council mandates. In the case of two political parties, this exceeded five times the number of council mandates. Tallinn Council is known to have 79 members. He used to be smaller, it's enlarged, I think maybe too much. One party put out 454 candidates in the last election, i.e. the number of council seats exceeded 5.75 times, the other had 397 candidates, i.e. 5.03 times more than the number of seats. The other side of this problem opens up when you look at how many of these candidates were among those who received either zero votes or only one vote in their constituency. Awkwardly, dozens and dozens have also been among the candidates for large parties. In total, there were candidates in Tallinn in the last municipal elections, if my memory is not deceived, 76, but there are candidates here and there in other parts of Estonia. In order not to give the impression that the purpose of the draft is to end this irrational race for the length of the list only in the capital, the drafters have also analysed some of the ways in which it takes place in rural areas, in different municipalities and in cities. One such summary has also been drawn up by the Election Commission of the Republic. It is clear from this that the biggest oversupply in the last elections was indeed the biggest oversupply in history, probably related to Tallinn. There was one example of all other Estonia: "Our Municipality Kose" exceeded the number of members of the parish council on its list 5.26 times. There are very few examples. One party that is strong in north-east Estonia, in the cities of north-east Estonia, has come up with lists with a number of candidates of 3,33 or 3,26 or 3,52 times the number of council members. There is also one such electoral alliance in Paldiski. However, as a general rule, this limit is not exceeded or exceeded to the extent that it is somewhere between two or three times the number of council mandates. The drafters are convinced that setting a reasonable limit would benefit the credibility of the elections. The analysis of small rural municipalities also confirms that at the end of the long lists there are many 0 or 1 vote recipients, which is not exactly about purpose. I have also done an analysis on the basis of one county myself, and I dare say that it is rather a good tendency to submit long lists of entities that have been in power for a relatively long time or at least one composition in one municipality or another. They have what we call it politely, an administrative resource or an influence resource to put out an extremely long list. We do not think that makes sense. We would very much like it to be regulated by political culture in itself, but what happened in Tallinn confirms that it has become more and more absurd. As I pointed out, in recent local elections, almost 500 electoral lists were made available. It's become a race on its own. In our opinion, people are still waiting for a meaningful debate on elections, not for orientation on long lists, which will undoubtedly also impose a huge administrative burden on political parties, which will have a demoralising effect. The risk of using administrative resources for large recruitment should not be underestimated. As a rule, power parties or power lists do so. In the case of one part of Tallinn, I even listed 27 people on one list, based on my limited knowledge, who had a direct working relationship with municipal authorities. This bill does not entail any costs, and the initiators consider that it strengthens the authority of democratic elections and the legitimacy of decisions. Its effects are positive. Finally, it is also a remark that this is certainly not the main objective of the draft, but the electoral commission would reduce the burden of this change. It would probably also reduce the psychological tension of people who are on the electoral list, not by free will, but by intense influence and persuasion. After that, they were terrified to discover that they were put on a list somewhere, but there were no votes at all. Finally, I am pleased to say that, after the Free Party came up with this initiative, the Social Democrats incorporated it into their democracy package, which opened coalition negotiations. Unfortunately, this black white coalition agreement didn't go into any improvements, but I do have your position. People of other parties, or at least one party, have also expressed the opinion in the cost statements that, in fact, these long lists of Tallinn are not in anyone's interest, they could be abandoned and the size of double councils should be capped. We are certainly prepared to negotiate perhaps up to three times the size, but certainly no more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U102	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You stopped here at the end of this very right principle, which I think is going through this whole legislative amendment. Would it be possible for you to explain even better how limiting the length of the lists will increase the confidence of the Estonian people in democratic governance? It's important, and you've stopped at it, but maybe you'll explain it even further?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U104	Thank you. I think one aspect is that a lot of resources will be put into recruitment activities before the elections. This may not be the most convincing in the eyes of society, both in the eyes of those who are recruited and in the eyes of those who are not recruited because they refuse. The other thing is that it takes a lot of organizational energy. It would certainly be more appropriate for political parties to pay more attention to programme and substantive aspects before the elections, not to a competition with a longer list. Finally, these long lists are not taken very seriously by voters.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U105	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, During the elections, it is always said that every vote is important, every vote decides. From this I conclude that if a candidate receives one vote or two or three votes, it does not matter at all, every vote is important. So we're talking like those candidates who get a zero vote. In your speech, the word 'awkward' sounded a few times, a few times the word 'untargeted'. I'm trying to figure out who could be embarrassed by either the person who didn't vote for himself or his election list or his party. But it's their business, it's a personal matter, it's a party matter. If they want to be embarrassed, let them. And untargeted use of resources is the use of personal resources or of party or electoral list resources. Why would you limit it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U107	Thank you. I don't think that limitation would limit anyone's rights. It is possible for the party to hold internal elections. There are two ways. You can choose a limited number of places inside a party when you display a list in Narva. Another method is to go recruit the entire city of Narva in order for people to be on the list of one or another, such as your party. In this way, it may indeed be possible to get majority support by one vote, but in our opinion it basically deforms the idea of open and sensible elections. Among other arguments, it is also stated that whether people should not have the right to apply. You see, this means that the right to stand as a candidate in Estonia is guaranteed very well in local elections. Everyone can form a citizens' electoral union and they have been successful here and there. In Riigikogu elections, we have already imposed this restriction. In the case of Riigikogu elections, I see a serious threshold that can be put on the list, how it is done, what procedures need to be followed to register as a party, etc. So the question of whose business it is, I think, could be a party matter. The party could complete its list on the basis of a certain pre-selection, if indeed there are many people who want to apply.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U108	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U109	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Certainly, regulations are justified if they are in place for a good cause and improve something. I was a little hurt in your report that you made an example of even people in municipal institutions running for office. Believe me, people from public authorities and local authorities are also applying. I think that if a person has political principles and a firm world view, it is not forbidden for him to apply. At the same time, you have given an example that the length of the list is primarily a problem in Tallinn. Then why didn't you start the capital law? Only the municipality of Kose was in addition to where the problem was. And would it be more appropriate to limit the length of the list of seven councils to 14 candidates? We actually know that people then create electoral alliances and stand as candidates in two or three electoral alliances, but they may actually belong to one political party. Would that be fairer and fairer? Isn't that like turning the real situation upside down?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U110	Thank you. As far as the end of the question is concerned, whether the length of the list could be double or two and a half times three times as much as I consider it a little too long, it can certainly be discussed. But to answer the beginning of the question, there are not so many examples across Estonia. As a rule, lists end with people who don't actually get votes in elections. And I rather think that if there is some kind of competition for the list of positions, it might rather promote democracy. In rural areas where there have been extremely long lists outside, this has mostly been a party or election union in a particular municipality or otherwise in a strong position. On rare occasions, the so-called throne pretendants are able to put out a very long list. As far as the capital law is concerned, we have a uniform electoral law across Estonia, and that must continue to be the case. I do not think that this can be technically done from an election point of view, and that is not necessary either. These regulations are not intended for just one municipality. But in the case of one municipality, this example was bright indeed. Indeed, the municipal authorities also have undoubtedly the right to stand as candidates in elections. But if I see that in this race these workers are being taken on the same list, I will draw some conclusions as a citizen. And that's the way the super-long list doesn't work the best way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U111	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U112	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! This fight is still going on with Tallinn, but I think Tallinn is not all of Estonia. And political parties are not non-profit organisations representing voters. I guess the Free Party has started with the election alliances. Why are you limiting the number of election alliances candidates? Election unions are not equal partners for political parties; there are no known names at first; they have no resources; you want to limit them. Election unions are at first for political participation. Maybe this is the first step in politics for people who are running for election union. In my opinion, this limitation in this sense is not correct. You are putting electoral alliances in a very unequal position compared to political parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U113	Thank you, Mr. Asker! I think that the people participating in the elections should be in an equal position, also in terms of the length of the list, if the maximum number of candidates can be put out. At present, electoral federations and political parties are undoubtedly not in an equal position in local elections. In fact, political parties are financed from the state budget. Political parties are able to support the people on their lists, and large cities are very strongly supported. Election unions are definitely in a worse position. As far as the length of the lists is concerned, if it is regulated equally on both sides, equality will certainly not disappear. It is selective funding that creates inequality. If you also find that the model of funding for political parties is extremely unfair, the electoral alliances in Tartu also reached the council meeting in previous elections, by the way, and you think that this could be taken down a little by not imposing a list limit on the electoral federations and imposing it only on the political parties, then you can propose such an amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs will discuss this. But the initiators of the bill didn't think of that approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U114	Good waitress, I'm very sorry to you, but I humbly ask you to go to your seat for a moment. I've got a letter here, and I think you could follow the procedure in your place, not here. Then we'll move on. I have a request to the floor operator to keep all these questions up. However, I have received a letter signed by Kalvi Tough, Vice-Chairman of the Social Democratic Party Group, where the SDE Group asks to extend the session of the Riigikogu until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. We must vote on this proposal. I am voting on the Kalvi Hard-signed proposal, where the group asks to extend the session of the Riigikogu until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please, good fellows, take a stand and vote! With the result of 59 votes against, 3 abstentions, the proposal was supported. Today's session of the Riigikogu has been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Good waitress Andres Herkel, I ask you to return to the Riigikogu Chair! Let's get on with the questions. Peter Ernits, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U115	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Here's my question. It is one of the methods against the so-called perpetuation of local power. In this sense, I think this is a welcome one. But you really should look at the whole thing. Have you also thought of other methods of reducing the influence of local so-called families, or maybe so-called, local clans, in perpetuating their power?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U116	Honourable questioner! This doesn't concern this bill, but the Free Party is working for it all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U117	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Andres, I respect you very much, and with great respect, I also respect your democratic package, but with all due respect, I must say that you did not answer my first question, even though it was so simple. That is why I am simplifying even more now. The elephant thinks the tail has a normal length of one and a half meters. The mouse under him thinks the tail has a normal length of 10 centimeters. How can you decide for them how long a tail has to be, someone with no tail at all? Is it justified for someone to say the word in this dispute, or better let him stay as everyone decides?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U119	Thank you. I do not know elephants and mice so well, but the initiators of the draft consider that the normal length of the tail, or the normal length of the local government selection lists, is twice the number of council members. In the past, the Riigikogu has decided that the normal length of the Riigikogu electoral lists is 1.25 members of the Riigikogu or a little less, 101 plus 24. These decisions have been taken and give everyone a level playing field. I also answered your question last time, in my opinion, appropriately, in the sense that the problem cannot be talked about in Estonia due to a disproportionate restriction of the right to vote in local elections. This can be said in the case of Riigikogu elections and is linked to high thresholds for registering political parties, bail, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U120	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I got this zero vote mandate from your report several times. Have you not thought in your party that maybe the troubles lie in another matter? Maybe they're about one person bringing a whole bunch of so-called clickers to the council with his own votes, who don't have an opinion. And then it really happens like you said. On Ruhnu Island, there was also one man on the council for about three years in such a way that, with zero votes, essentially without a mandate, somebody else exercised power.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U122	Honourable questioner! Such a story could happen on Ruhnu Island. In larger municipalities, it is certainly not possible for zero votes to reach the council. Although, true, I take my words back. I was reminded that there is a citywide list in Tallinn and, theoretically, there is this possibility: someone is placed at the top of the list and receives a compensation mandate. In this way, it is indeed possible to reach the Tallinn City Council with a zero vote. But the other part of this problem, that someone who gets a lot of votes drags those who do not have support into the council, is not the object of the regulation of this bill. I did point out in my introduction how electoral laws have been amended in Estonia under the influence of precedents that have caused great misunderstandings in voters. Measures have therefore been taken in Riigikogu elections. Measures have been taken to ensure that the minimum number of personal votes is also required to enter the Riigikogu. When selecting a local government, where there is a list selection element in the game, it once again affects Tallinn, it has not been done. It's true.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U123	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U124	Thank you, manager. Dear colleague Andres! I certainly did not mean that lists of electoral alliances and political parties should be of different lengths, I am not that stupid. But you must have thought I was so stupid. But let me give you a concrete example. The coalition is also planning to allow members of the Riigikogu to stand as candidates next time in municipal elections. There is an 11-member council, 22 people can apply. We are now putting together: the party, 22 people, including members of the Riigikogu, and the electoral union, with 22 people on the list. What opportunity do you see so that they can compete equally?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U125	Thank you. First of all, this issue, once again, does not concern this bill. But the initiators of this draft in their majority do not support the restoration of the right of members of the Riigikogu to belong to councils. If the coalition does legitimise it, then I call on the members of the Riigikogu to stand as a candidate in election alliances.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U126	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U127	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Aren't you going to hurt little parties with this bill? If there are lists of the same length, then a small party maybe in corpore is all on the list there are smart people and all kinds of other people, but if there are 15,000 people in the party, he puts out his heavy cannons, the best, and gets a much better list. In this way, small parties will no longer have the opportunity to gain access anywhere. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U128	Thank you. I don't think I quite understood that question. In my opinion, there is at times a way of thinking that if there is a large party, it must receive greater support and it must have greater opportunities, both in funding and in other aspects. But basically the point of this bill is that there could be some kind of "full list" cap, and if it is left very far behind, then there is no capacity. There is no point in trying to recruit the entire electorate to prove your ability to get a long list together. 15,000 people, when they recruit, can perform miracles if they're motivated. However, I assume that it is in the interests of the Centre Party too that they are engaged in substantive politics.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U129	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I ask about the impact of this bill in the key to possible administrative reform. Let me give you a specific example. In 2005, a large parish of Suure-Jaani was formed in Viljandi County, whose council has 17 members. If this bill were to become a law, only 34 people should be nominated for a council on one of these large lists. In the past, four municipalities were separate, and since there was no restriction, around 90 people applied on different lists. The amendment would mean that people would have half the opportunity to apply for local government councils, unless they make electoral alliances. I think that if a person belongs to a party, he has the right to stand as a candidate on a political party list. He doesn't have to be forced to form an electoral alliance. How will this still affect active citizenship after administrative reform if there are significantly fewer municipalities and councils are much smaller? How does this affect active citizenship and people's right to apply?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U131	Thank you. I don't see a big problem here. After the municipalities join, the number of voters will undoubtedly increase and the size of the council will probably also increase. There are no significant restrictions on standing in local elections, as I have already indicated. To create a restriction that one list or two lists somewhere in the municipality would not be disproportionately long, it would rather widen the political playing field and create better opportunities for pluralist politics and different lists.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U132	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U133	Thank you. Honourable waitress! This last question is not so theoretical. If several very small municipalities join, the number of council seats will not increase proportionally. Indeed, once the administrative reform has been carried out, there may be a situation where even all current council members may not be able to apply on a single list if they wanted to. What's wrong with people who maybe belong to one party, but even if they don't, share the same values and want to run on one list? And I would like to stress that they may also be current members of the council of smaller parishes. What would be the big plus now if they were forced to draw up multiple lists?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U134	Thank you. If I understood the question correctly, you mean a theoretical situation in which the same party is expected to have more council members in the merging municipalities than would be twice the number of council members in the municipality after accession. I think it's a theoretical possibility. But if you have any doubt that this might be an obstacle, I have already pointed out above that it can be disputed whether the coefficient in question is two councils or 2.5. This can be changed so that this doubt does not arise in the future. But this practice of crossing the border here and there is no good. This restriction in the Riigikogu elections has, in my opinion, well justified itself, and I think it also justifies itself in the municipal elections. This is regardless of whether the reform of the municipality can or cannot be carried out, whether the municipalities can join or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U135	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U136	Thank you. A good waitress, since you expressed doubts in reply to the previous question, I wonder if you really really realize how much council seats can change. Currently, for example, there are five municipalities with a population of 1000 and they form a municipality with a new population of 5000, as the administrative reform requires. How many times does this decrease the total number of council seats? Do you even have that idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U137	Thank you. Yes, I have an idea of how you can decide on the size of the council. This really depends on the size of the municipality. If you suspect any so-called loss of judgment here, this is certainly an aspect that needs to be mentioned in the case of administrative-territorial reform. I know this has been said about the administrative units, administrative collections, but my point is that in Tallinn the model of administrative collections has worked badly. There may be substantive arguments that emerge during the municipal reform, but at the moment, we are in a situation where administrative-territorial reform does not seem to exist. If you think it looks, we can open a discussion on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U138	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U139	Thank you, dear waitress. I'll listen to your answers and think about your party. Isn't this bill about a pseudo-problem? You say it is necessary to protect and develop democracy. At the same time, when I think about the magnitude of the substantive problems with democracy in some municipalities, I am not going to specify, but I am thinking about this North Korean propaganda apparatus, forced partying of officials, etc., you are now coming up with this draft. It's understandable in itself, and I may not like these long lists either. But it is as if you put it first, although, in fact, in some municipalities where long lists are used, the basic problems of democracy are of a different nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U140	Ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly not the only measure. We also remember the question, as has already been pointed out, that when it comes to selecting a list in Tallinn, receiving a compensation mandate could be linked to the minimum number of personal votes, as is the case in the Riigikogu elections. These are, however, things that can be regulated in the electoral law. I think you also mean that administrative resources, in addition to recruiting candidates, are obviously still being used for political advertising, for example. For a long time, I am surprised that the state and the Riigikogu have not been able to take steps and resolve these issues for a long time. This is again a bad example that political self-regulation has not worked best.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U141	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U142	Thank you. If today's bill is to become a law, then this means that, in addition to being able to get candidates from two councillors to stand for election, there will also be one set of alternate members of the council or one composition after, for example, the expiry of the mandate of the first council. There are quite a number of municipalities that have changed in full because of the adoption of the budget or for some other reason. It has even occurred that this happens several times. Thanks to long lists and alternates who have been able to come to the council afterwards, this has not required extraordinary elections. Can't the change you have proposed in small municipalities trigger a whole series of extraordinary elections, which also means extra costs? The claim that this bill does not entail any additional costs is not quite correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U143	Dear questioner, that was an excellent thought development. The composition of the Council must then change again and again in order to achieve this result. And if the wagon in one municipality is already in such a deep ditch, then the problems are probably far worse than the fact that someone missed a long enough list before the elections. That's probably why we need re-elections. If a council with a very poor mandate is to organise things, then his actions are probably not the most convincing in the eyes of the voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U144	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, now we're getting to the bottom of this. I very much liked the example of Mr Toobal's Suure-Jaani, Kiisler's high-level view, as well as Juhan Parts' thinking development. Could you show us any projection of what this shorter list will look like in the context of administrative reform? This reform will probably come now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U146	Thank you, dear questioner. Unfortunately, I cannot, because I would first like to see the projection of administrative reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U147	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U148	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear waitress, Do you not think that the objective of the proposed draft to reduce the number of candidates in the lists would, to a certain extent, undermine the rights of citizens to choose and be elected?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U149	Honourable questioner! I have answered that question about three times today. One time I also answered this question in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and then I will answer it again. In my opinion, following such a change, the election of local government councils does not have any problems with passive electoral rights, or the right to be elected. This is perfectly reasonablely organised in Estonia. There are no unreasonable thresholds for forming a citizens' electoral union, no one has to pay any bail or take any list of members of the association that they have formed. This problem exists in Estonia alone in the case of Riigikogu elections, where, in order to submit a list, a party needs to be registered, a certain number of members need to be made available, bail is to be paid, etc. In these elections, indeed, political parties have, in some way, monopolised passive electoral rights and there can be some kind of abuse, but not local elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U150	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I now ask Andre Sepa, member of the Constitutional Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U151	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would like to give you an overview of the proceedings before the Commission on bill No 49. The Commission discussed this draft on 19 October. Invited were Andres Herkel, initiator's representative, Heili Kaares, Adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, and Priit Vinkel, Head of the Elections Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. In the committee, there was a first-reading discussion of § 34 of the Local Government Council Election Act supplementing the draft Act 49. The representative of the initiator of the draft act presented the draft and explained that it was intended to impose a restriction on the length of the candidates' circuit lists in the selection of the local government council. The representative of the initiator of the draft act noted that the reason for the amendment was the fact that certain municipalities had started to practice the submission of a list of hundreds of candidates. In his words, it should be borne in mind that, in making such a change, the parties' motivation to use administrative resources to recruit candidates is reduced. So far, pressure has been put on municipal officials and other parties to stand for election. The initiator's representative also commented on the claim that this change limits anyone's ability to participate in municipal elections. He pointed out that this was not credible, as citizens' electoral alliances could always be formed. The need for a political party or an electoral association to propose more candidates than the need for double membership of a council is not justified in its opinion. We also heard the position of the Government of the Republic. The representative of the government explained to us that the government discussed this draft at its meeting on 2 July and decided not to support the draft, as the ceiling on the number of candidates on the circuit list would be a restriction on local autonomy and the right to equal stand. The Head of the Elections Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu noted that there are, in fact, no obstacles to the establishment of the limit proposed in the draft, because it exists in the Riigikogu elections and there are no obstacles to its establishment in the election of the local government council. Members of the Commission heard explanations from both the initiator's representative and the Head of the Government and Elections Department. There was a substantive debate during which questions were asked and answered. Maybe I'll get some more important questions. The Commission expressed the opinion that the weakest point of the draft is the limit of the number of double mandates, because in a large number of municipalities there are lists of candidates with more than twice the number of mandates. A representative of the initiator of the draft act considered that it could still be discussed whether the limit would be two times the number of mandates, as currently stated in the draft act, or, for example, two and a half times the number of mandates. The threefold number of mandates is already an exaggeration in the opinion of the initiator's representative, but he expressed his willingness to discuss it. There was an interest in whether the Riigikogu Chancellery Election Department had any statistics on how many cases a council member's seat would be abandoned so that alternate members would come to the council. The Head of the Elections Department replied that they did not have this information, statistics were collected in local governments. The Commission was also asked whether it did not seem to the initiator that setting maximum lists would reduce the scope for political participation in the electoral alliances list. That's what we talked about in the hall today, too. The opportunities for new people are often linked to the length of the list of candidates, but all applicants must be able to apply. There was an interest as to whether the working group set up at the Committee on Constitutional Affairs dealing with the elections had dealt with the length of the list of candidates. We have received the answer that they have not discussed this specifically, perhaps it has been left in the last block of the topics to be addressed. However, this is certainly to be discussed more widely. The Commission also expressed the view that the initiators of the draft do want to solve the problem of pressure on certain local government staff to apply for the election, but what is proposed in the draft is not a good solution. The problem should be solved by other methods. The following was decided: to propose a draft on the agenda of the plenary session on 27 October (this was a consensual decision), to propose a rejection of the draft 49 (by 8, 1 against and no abstentions) and to appoint Andre Sepp (as well as a consensual decision) as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U152	Thank you. Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U153	Thank you! Good waitress! There's another bill here that we've had before. I mean, because of one or two, in this case a little more local government, the law also wants to restrict everyone else's freedom of decision and the right to self-exist. How do you, as an ex-municipal person, appreciate this? Is it basically right that we always want to reorganize the wrong things that have been done by one government, while putting pressure on others?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U154	Thank you for your question. I guess the law initiatives are from this hall. There are representatives of the local government and other areas in this hall. We all perceive it as members of the Riigikogu, as members of political groups and committees. I agree with the questioner that it is not right to extend the legislative changes arising from the context of one municipality to the whole of Estonia. But it must also be understood that Tallinn is the largest city in Estonia and its municipality is several times larger than other municipalities. So obviously this effect will continue to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U155	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U156	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I have this question, two questions. Does the Commission intend to order some kind of study so that it can analyse in detail whether the conditions of fair competition in Estonia are guaranteed in all elections? The second question concerns the fact that you referred to the violation of § 156 of the Constitution. Does the restriction in force in the election of the Riigikogu in no way interfere with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U157	The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has set up a committee to deal with the elections, with representatives from all political groups. At the last meeting of the Commission, the Commission President gave an overview of where they have come from and what they have dealt with. I can clarify whether this issue has been taken up on the Commission's work programme or not. If necessary, we can draw attention to this in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I consider it reasonable to refer to your first question that, in any case, constitutional monitoring bodies must also monitor how democracy is guaranteed in elections. The second question was about the constitutional breach. This was assessed by the Government of the Republic in the form of the Ministry of Justice when it gave an opinion on bill 49. The topic of Riigikogu elections was not dealt with there.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U158	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U159	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I want to give my opinion first. I wonder once again when people say things are bad in Tallinn. I don't know what that means. Tallinn is one of the fastest growing local governments, the budget, the number of people, the activity of entrepreneurship are constantly growing. On the contrary, I believe that all other local authorities must follow the example of Tallinn. But my question is that currently, according to the law, 16 members belong to the administrative body of the city centre of Tallinn; in other parts of the city there are eight council members. And these 16 people must all be written in the same district. Isn't there a situation where there's not enough members? Was this discussed in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U160	Thank you. Certainly Tallinn is the proud capital of Estonia, I agree with that. The issues of administrative councils were not discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, focusing only on the content of this amendment, which has already been discussed a great deal today and which aims to limit the number of participants in the lists.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U161	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U162	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I believe that the aim of the draft is to improve the quality of the collections to be elected, but somehow the authors of the draft start with quantity, hoping for quantity to become quality, as the Marxism-Leninism once taught. Only, as I said to the previous speaker, it reduces the opportunities for small parties, because it is easier for the big ones to find better candidates. Did the Commission not come up with this simple possibility that, when it comes to quality, some selection criteria could be set? Whether it's a wealthy censorship or an IQ test or, for example, a birthright. This is how we get the best candidates, with equally large and small parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U163	Thank you, good questioner! I hope that the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will understand the relationship between quality and quantity in democracy and local government councils. As a member of the Commission, I think that is why the proposal to reject this draft law, supported by eight members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was taken. We did not discuss other quality assurance methods.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U164	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Jüri Adams, representative of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, to the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U165	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since I and all of you have no right to negotiate on your own behalf, I would like to thank the Free Party Group for giving me the right it gave itself this time. I'm starting with a whole bunch of issues coming through here. One thing is that there is too little substance in the draft, there is only one political point. I totally agree with that. Since there are many more serious shortcomings in the local council election system, I would have liked to have seen the draft deal with them as well. Other questioners, like the chairman of the Free Party, suspected a variety of ulterior motives. Since I have contact with him almost every day, I can assure you that he is quite certainly open to all reasonable proposals. If there really were to be an administrative reform, and if it were to be implemented through administrative reform, it would be reasonable for elections to be changed at least once, as there are many mergers, then Mr Herkel will certainly be open to this proposal. I know he's also open to discussing any other flaws in the local government council election system. Another experience is that we are beginning to develop a certain universal argument or a universal malaka in Estonia, the verbal expression of which is 'the Constitution currently in force'. If it is necessary to say that I do not like this or another proposal, it can always be elegantly justified that it is contrary to the current constitution. You can use it the other way around, hitting it the other way around. If someone is asking for a change in state life, there is always an elegant reason at hand that what I am reporting to you requires in our current constitution. Now to the substance of the bill. I tried to get through my memory, which I know about the length of the electoral lists in Estonian history. I must say that, in my opinion, this problem has never been fixed before 1992. Or rather, from an early age, I have discovered only one example, and this is the election of the Supreme Russian Constituent Assembly in 1917. It was then allowed that the list of candidates in the constituency could be one and a half times the number of mandates. There was a reason for that at the time. In fact, the electoral law allowed one person to stand for up to five constituencies, and if he was elected in more than one district, he himself decided which one he wanted to go to the Constituent Assembly. That was a perfectly logical reason. The question in Estonia's democracy was that perhaps there could be more people on some electoral list than the number of mandates, until the end of the proportional electoral system in 1934 was completely unthinkable. The number of mandates was the absolute upper limit of the length of the list. It was assumed that the results of the election were such that hardly anyone would receive 100% of the votes and fill all the places. It was also thought that there would be no alternate question, but if an alternate had to appear, it would be possible to find an alternate on a list of fewer votes. May I ask for more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U166	Yeah, please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U167	We have a second time now when we are discussing the same problem. When Estonia's current electoral system was introduced, it did not occur to anyone that there might be a problem with the length of the lists. The first time, I think, came up in the elections to the Riigikogu in 1999, when some political parties submitted such long lists that the question arose as to whether this was in line with good practice and should not be limited. And indeed, since 2003, we use the formula that the number of mandates is 101 plus another 24 people, namely 2 additional candidates for each constituency. This system has worked pretty well. The same question has now been raised in the context of the election of the local government council. My personal opinion is that it would, in principle, be a good thing if such a thing was not regulated by law if it were regulated by good practice. In Latvia, there was also a problem with the length of the Seim selection lists. They decided in the same way at one point that they would limit the length of the list of candidates to the number of members of the Seim, that is to say 100. In the first selection of the Sejm after this amendment, a number of people who assumed that they were on long lists of their political parties, but were excluded from it, formed a number of additional lists in order to apply for parliamentary membership. None of these trials, as far as I know, gave anyone a place in Parliament. So these parties had placed more capable people on their lists who were able to gather more votes. If someone says that the restrictions on the length of the electoral lists are in conflict with the Constitution, he must also say that all this regulation was a screaming contradiction to all the constitutions that were in force at the time of the war during the time of Estonian parliamentarianism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U168	Thank you. Please beg the representative of the Estonian Central Party faction of the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U169	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, In my opinion, this draft law initiated by the Free Party is a very good example of bad legislation. For at least two reasons. Firstly, it is a clear overregulation of what the Free Party wants to do with this restriction, as well as a clear overreaction. Previously, such proposals were made in this hall under the leadership of Res Publica Urmas Reinsalu. Since the Free Party has also introduced such tricks for some reason, it is not very welcome. Secondly, it is bad for lawmaking because it is once again trying to do away with a local government and also a political party that has been elected several times by the people to lead the capital. It is intended to do this to municipalities and electoral associations, as well as to those parties for which this was not originally the case. When Priit Vinkel, the representative of the Election Commission of the Republic of Estonia, visited the committee and gave an overview of how Estonia is dealing with the length of the electoral lists, it turned out very clearly that this issue was not about political parties at all, but about the electoral alliances to a greater extent, namely the electoral alliances in small local governments. I am actually sorry that the Free Party, which has largely been born on the basis of electoral alliances, is now going to restrict the opportunities of the electoral alliances to stand for local elections. It's not a good tactic. There are still problems with this bill. In my opinion, both the explanatory memorandum and the paragraph in the bill are full of logic errors. Andres Herkel argued that the draft law creates the possibility that, if a political party or electoral federation has been in power for a very long time in some municipalities, their long period of power can be terminated. Let me give you a concrete example. There is a small local government where one electoral union has been in power for a very long time, and now they want to compete with it. Which option is better: is it that a new party or an electoral alliance puts together a very long list, such as 80 candidates, and so gets its votes, or is it forced to make six electoral alliances, and none of them exceeds the five-percent threshold, i.e. none of these six small electoral alliances gets a council at all, not to mention to offer competition to this long-standing electoral union or political party? This argument certainly doesn't mean anything at all. Now, on which I have also raised the question: when a possible administrative reform is launched, the sum of the members of the council will decrease. The same example of the parish of Suure-Jaani that I can bring from my personal experience. Before the 2005 elections, the four municipalities had a total of almost 60 councils, which were divided by election. After accession in 2005, a council of 17 members was formed. Thus, the council's membership decreased nearly three times, and the opportunities of those who wanted to apply to the local council decreased considerably. The chances of people who have wanted to be on the political party list were particularly deteriorating. However, as party secretary-general, I cannot say to the members of the party that, no, you will not be on our list, start making an election alliance now. I do not think this is a very sensible solution. This restriction significantly inhibits the activity of citizens, and such coercive electoral alliances are not a good tactic either. As for the fact that this restriction has already been imposed in the Riigikogu elections, I would say that it does not mean that it should be repeated once a mistake has been made. In my opinion, it was not a good idea at the time to set a limit on the length of the list of 125 candidates in the Riigikogu elections. It should be lost, it should go in the opposite direction. May I have some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U170	It's okay if you want.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U171	I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U172	Got it. Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U173	Thank you. When I asked my question, Andres Herkel's reply ridiculed the fact that if a double number of candidates could be put out in elections compared to the number of mandates, and if it were to happen that the local government was unable to adopt the budget by the end of March, the full composition of the council would change and this would create problems. It's like you're going to have to reduce the council several times. It's not like that. If the budget is not adopted by the Council, the entire council will be replaced and alternate members will come in. And if, after that, one of the council members were to go to the municipal court and there was a need for an alternate, he was not there because there were no more new entrants on the candidates' list. That would mean holding a new election. To become the law of this bill would mean that extraordinary elections would take place in small municipalities by means of a rift. I'm sure that wouldn't be good practice. For these six-seven reasons, which I mentioned to you on behalf of the Centre Party Group, we cannot support this draft. We could not support it in the Commission, nor can we support it in this large Chamber. For this reason, we are in favour of the Commission's proposal to reject this draft. We can't support this kind of reindition in this big hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U174	Thank you. Speak up, Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U175	Thank you, Mr President. Since my name was named, I have the right to say the line. First of all, for the sake of the verbatim report, I would point out that all-Estonian statistics confirm rather that the contribution of electoral unions and political parties to the compilation of super-long lists is equal. The picture isn't exactly what Mr. Toobal put forward. Whether long lists relate to some kind of ruling society or vice versa, the throne pretendants is certainly a question that needs to be analysed further. But my first observations, based on a few counties, confirm that the resource for the creation of very long lists is precisely in association with history, which has been in power for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U176	Thank you. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U177	Thank you. Since the previous speaker mentioned my name in the negotiations, I am also right...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U178	You can't do reclining, you don't have the right. There is no right of rejoinder. I don't see any more requests for reply, I don't see any more requests for speech, so I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject bill 49 at first reading. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the commission to reject bill 49 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 47 members of the Riigikogu, 15 against and 1 abstention, the proposal was supported. Bill 49 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The sixth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U179	We will move on to the seventh item, which is the first reading of § 101 of the Yacht Act initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Kalle Laaneti, Maire Aunaste, Mark Soosaare, Rein Ratas, Toomas Kivimäe and Urve Tiidus, supplementing and permanent settlements with § 5 (1) of the Small Islands Act. Mark Soosaare, member of the Riigikogu, will be asked to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U180	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, At first glance, it may seem to be a microscopic draft. Indeed, only a thousand permanent residents live in the smaller islands of Estonia. 11 of these islands are listed on the list of resident smaller islands, and there are three on the waiting list, where the permanent settlement has also rehabilitated. These are Väike-Pakri, Aegna and Naissaar. But when we think about the natural wealth and the cultural values that our small islands have, we can do a lot of breasts in front of many other European and also world countries. They're real pearls of national culture. The problem is serious, and I think the next number should startle us all in this hall. In fact, this year, the Council of Europe began to study the amusement hunt, or recreational killing, taking place on the Mediterranean. It has been calculated that, mostly in Italy, but also in other Mediterranean countries, a total of 25 million songbirds and waders are killed each year, most of whom are nesting on our May. This problem, which is directly related mainly to Italy, but also to other countries from which hunters arrive in our small islands, is appalling. The Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate have identified mass violations in the last year, consisting of the use of lead wounds, even though they have been banned in Estonia for two years. Whoever has ever come to see 'Ozone' knows very well how a poisonous lead ball inside a wounded or dead bird in the wild can reach not only the sea eagle but finally the human food chain. Also, unauthorised decoy techniques have been used. Last year, for example, the killing of protected white cheeks were detected on Kihnu Island on quite a large scale. Kihnu Lehes published a serious article about this. In addition to the violation of the Hunting Act, hunting tourism has made it quite impossible to restore semi-natural communities on several islands. As we know, Estonia committed itself to restoring coastal meadows, creative and semi-natural communities in quite large territory in the Treaty of Accession to the European Union. We have only been able to meet half of this commitment. Both Kihnus and Abrukal are in the process of stopping livestock because of the massive violent and law - breaking hunting, since sheep and cattle are no longer in electrical gardens. One family has run out this year because of almost all of the sheep's hunters. We all followed the struggle of the previous Riigikogu in the name of the new Hunting Act. The Hunting Act contains three parties: hunters, landowners and the State. Despite the fact that the previous composition of the Committee on the Environment also sounded like a proposal to bring the local government as the fourth party, this did not happen. Today's bill tries to correct this mistake step by step, starting with the small islands. Before I go directly to this bill, I will read the troubling sentences of Mr Mätas, a member of Kihnu's council, about Kihnu Leht, which appeared in the September issue. He says that, like the previous autumn, criminals who have arrived in the island country this autumn have been using unauthorized decoy devices to commit mass murders involving hundreds of ducks, waterfalls, kiwiters, and other birds, who have been kept by the island people. These brutes are generally called hunters in the world, and they will surely return with a large wallet next year. It may seem that this hopeless cry for help is intended only for its own councillor, who runs a hunting farm. When we discussed this draft in the Committee on the Environment, many felt that this was a one-man draft, but that is not the case. During my visit to Kihnu this weekend, I learned that the matter has been discussed several times in the council, but the relevant legal basis has unfortunately failed absolutely by the Ministry of the Environment. They wanted to have a hunting code before hunting and to make proposals there, for example, on the volume of bird hunting, as well as on seal hunting, but small islands are like non-existent. At the same time, we know very well that Estonia's seal fishing traditions come from Prangli, come from Ruhnu and Kihnu, come from Abruka and, to some extent, from Vormsi. All of those who initiated this bill, the vice-president of the island, carefully read the names in advance, believe that it should nevertheless be brought into play in the islands of the local government council or where the islands do not have their own parish, the island's general assembly and give them the opportunity to participate in the hunting plan, i.e. the hunting rules, as well as in deciding on the volume of the yacht. I recommend that members of the Riigikogu go to such a homepage as 'Hunting in Estonia', this is an English-language website. You will see appalling pictures where the whole field has been killed by geese or white-cheeked-legged hunter, a feather on a hat, stands and invites others to kill here as well. I think that Estonia is a country which, with its rare nature and natural traditions, could also become a very large tourist attraction in the area of bloodless hunting. But if we saw the branch we're sitting on, one minute we're gonna lose both. However, so much of the bill that it is designed to include one paragraph in the law. This is § 101, which would give the small island community with permanent settlement to participate in the hunting capacity and structure of wild game hunting, whose territory is considered. We also expect the Hunting Code to be presented before it is issued or amended to give an opinion to the community of a permanent small island. At present, one of the distinctions of the Small Islands Act is that the General Assembly of the Small Islands must give coordination to the island's general plan, the island's development plan and the transport connection to the mainland. Paragraph 5 (1) would be added to the Small Islands Act, which is amended and worded in such a way that the General Assembly has the power to issue an opinion on the rules of the General Assembly, the procedure for selecting an island elder and also on the organisation of hunting. The hunting order will be attached. The law currently in force has the competence of the General Assembly to give coordination. We made it a little bit more relaxed, we made it for an opinion. In principle, the total quantity of Estonian islands was approved, so that instead of coordinating it, it could be the publication of an opinion. I am grateful to the Committee on the Environment, where the matter was seriously discussed and it was thought that the publication of the opinion was too weak, however, that it was not specific enough. I also feel in my heart that perhaps coordination should be left to the point, because negative coordination is also coordination. And our legal practice in the municipal system has generally been that, whether it is a law on heritage conservation or a law on nature conservation, if negative coordination has been given, it has been regarded as coordination and has been treated as an opinion. Negative coordination is not yet veto. Finally, perhaps so much that this bill seeks to preserve and restore an insular way of life, an insular way of thinking, traditions. It is trying to restore traditional livelihoods, which is the strength of our small islands. And the involvement of the community in this is extremely important. It should not be forgotten that for the permanent inhabitants of the smaller islands, their home is not just their home yard and their home meadow and pasture. The thinking of the people of the small islands is based on the fact that the entire island is their home. And the permanent residents of the smaller islands are the best keepers of their homes. The aim of this draft is far from turning those islands where hunting is currently being carried out into hunting areas. The goal is to restore the traditional yacht, where really every goose duck that falls from the sky to the hunter's feet is picked up, taken home nicely and put in an oven or pot. The practice shows that the men of Kihnu and Ruhnu brought a couple or three ducks home during the autumn, but did not kill them like Italian tourists were shot down by hundreds and thousands, the breast piece was cut out and birds that were not known were also released. There was a very lively debate in the Committee on the Environment, with quite a number of good ideas emerging there. I hope that the Riigikogu will allow both the Environment Commission and the local governments where hunting is a problem to send their opinions to us, and we will move on to this matter. If it is fortunate to have a legislative change in the smaller islands, why not continue to use this practice in other coastal areas and perhaps in the future also in larger municipalities, because the problem is also elsewhere. Who has watched television and read the newspapers knows that there has also been an appalling hunt in the municipality of Tõstamaa in Pärnu County for the benefit of a man who earns a great deal of money. But nature suffers irreparable damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U181	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Mr Andres Metsoja, Member of the Environment Committee, speaking chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U182	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu and initiators of the bill! The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed 56 issues of the draft law at its meeting on 20 October. It should be noted that the draft has been launched on 11 June 2015. Rein Ratas, Andres Metsoja, Deniss Borodich, Mati Raidma, Meelis Mälberg, Raivo Põldaru took part in the meeting, Vivi Aleksejeva was an advisor, Valeri Korb was absent. Mark Soosaar, Member of the Riigikogu, Tõnu Traks, Adviser to the Forest Department of the Ministry of the Environment, Martin Kulp, Legal Adviser to the Regional Development Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Riina Nurmsaar, Adviser to the European Office for Territorial Cooperation were invited. Mark Soosaar, the initiator of the draft, presented the draft and answered questions from the members of the Commission. In addition, the Riigikogu has given its opinion to the Committee on the Environment to the State Chancellery, which decided at its meeting on 30 July that the Government of the Republic gave up its opinion. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the Ministry of the Environment and, as a related party, the Ministry of the Interior have made their point of view. In conclusion, the Ministry of the Environment has made a number of comments and, ultimately, has said that it supports the processing of the 56 draft law, taking into account the above considerations, which are also set out in writing. When I pause, I could point out that the small islands can intervene in the organisation of hunting, both through landowners and through local government bodies. The Hunting Act has set out the possibilities for the intervention of the local community in § 9, which provides for the establishment of a hunting council and its competence. According to § 25 (1) of the Act, however, a contract must be concluded with the owner of the immovable property for hunting purposes. As the draft also concerns the hunting rules, it has been clarified that the processing of the hunting rules takes place in the project information system and in the working environment where further information exchange and coordination is taking place, it is possible to participate. The Ministry of the Interior has made quite a resolute summary of its letter. The Ministry proposes not to support this draft and specifically points out that the proposed regulation does not comply with the principles of the Hunting Act or the legislation given on its basis. It also points out that the draft makes a distinction between the islands which are island municipalities and the other islands which are part of the administrative territory of the local government when asking for an opinion on hunting rules and the volume and structure of hunting. The aim here is to make it clear whether this issue should concern only insular authorities, or also the continent's own or those regions where certain broads and islands are located within the continental self-government. It is also mentioned that, in the future procedure, it is essential to ensure that the draft and legislative amendment are also negotiated with the Association of Rural Governments, the Association of Cities, hunting societies, landowners and local authorities. As the previous speaker said, the Commission was active and a number of discussion topics arose in the session. Perhaps the most important thing to do here is to point out that the Commission believes that an important issue has been raised. There is a joint agreement that the problem exists and needs to be addressed. At the same time, it was also recognised that what was proposed in the draft does not actually offer a solution. The Commission took the view very clearly that the Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, should look more seriously at the problem and try to find outlets through which it would indeed be possible to intervene. There should also be better cooperation with communities on this issue. Perhaps it would be wise to look at the problem even more broadly and also bring to the discussion the State Forest Management Centre, which will auction Abrka hunting grounds. In fact, we have also come to the conclusion that the hunting councils should include persons on the so-called municipal route. Perhaps a serious analysis should be made of how local authorities could regulate hunting with the rule of public order, whether it would be reasonable and possible at all, so that there would be no conflict between different laws. It was decided to propose to put a draft of 56 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 27 October 2015 (this decision was consensual), to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped (this was also consensual), and to set the deadline for the amendments at 10 November at 16 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U183	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U184	Good Andres, thank you for this thorough review. But did you notice such a thing? The letter sent by the Ministry of the Environment refers to three possibilities for the local government to participate in the hunt in accordance with the Hunting Act. In fact, the hunting law never uses a word pair of "local government" and the representatives of local governments are not invited to the council or to the designation of hunting grounds.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U185	Thank you. Indeed, I read it and noticed that it was so. At the same time, it has not been said anywhere that the people of the local government could not be involved in the hunting council. This proposal can certainly be made in this context. But indeed, the regulation of the law on this issue could be more explicit, which would create greater preconditions for cooperation with the community.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-27_U186	Thank you. Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading of the 56th draft should be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of 56 amendments, including 10 November at 16 a.m. The first reading is closed and the seventh item is also closed. Good fellows, our hearing today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 1.59 p.m.
