ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-15_U1	Good morning, good fellows. We will begin the session of the first working week of the IXth plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-15_U2	Good fellows! First of all, we can hear the oath of the member of the Supreme Court, Viive Ligi. I would like to ask the Riigikogu to take a vow of office, Mrs. Viive Ligi, a member of the Supreme Court!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-15_U3	Honourable Riigikogu! I pledge to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. I pledge to exercise justice according to my conscience in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Estonia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-15_U4	I now ask the members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries! Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-15_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union initiates a draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act and other laws, the main objective of which is to prevent the hidden use of public funds for election advertising. The draft has been initiated to solve a problem that we have seen in quite a number of municipalities over quite a number of years, especially in the city of Tallinn. Tallinn's city power basically uses public money in a corrupt way to buy additional and non-competitive means to advertise candidates for its own party and its own party. Our aim is to limit this misuse of taxpayers' money and also to provide for sanctions for any form of advertising and publications and media services being published during an active election campaign. This concerns not only the elections to local government, but also the elections to the Riigikogu and the European Parliament. In the run-up to the various elections, we have seen that municipalities are advertising their candidates with taxpayers' money in a basically disguised form, which is certainly not legitimate and in accordance with the law. This was also pointed out by the National Audit Office in its audit published yesterday. I hope that there will be a constructive and thorough debate on this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-15_U6	There's no more calls. I have adopted one draft on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings. Good fellows, we'll do a presence check. 79 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 22. The clarification of today's agenda is linked to the presentation of draft 815 by Mr Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-15_U7	Let's move on to today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the first reading of draft 815 of the Riigikogu's decision of Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, 'Freedom of a Member of the Supreme Court, Ott Järvesaare'. Ms Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-15_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Freedom of a member of the Supreme Court, Ott Järvesaare, from the judicial office' was submitted by the President of the Supreme Court Priit Pikamäe on 5 December this year. The Commission discussed this draft on 16 December and noted that Ott Järvesaar wishes to be released from office as a member of the Supreme Court on its own initiative from 1 May. This is because he wishes to retire to a judge's pension, i.e. years of retirement earned by a judge. The early submission of the bill to the Chairman of the Supreme Court was justified by the reasons given by the President of the Supreme Court for having sufficient time to find a new candidate and when one judge leaves, the other is about to take his place. We decided this in the Commission: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 15 January. a and put to the final vote on the draft. The decision was unanimous. At first, the Commission appointed Mr Väino Linde, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur, but he could not present it today, which is why I am doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-15_U9	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Good waitress, thank you! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is today to pass the final vote on draft 815. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 815 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 67 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft 815 of the Riigikogu's decision of Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, "Freedom of member of the Supreme Court Ott Järvesaare from the judicial office' has been adopted as a decision. Today's item is closed. Good fellows, our hearing today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 10.08 a.m.
