ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-07_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the fifth Thursday session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-07_U2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I will give a draft decision to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. Its ultimate objective is to ratify one of the 1960 UN Conventions banning discrimination in the field of education. It's a long story. For the first time, we met with the intellectuals at a meeting where the problems of our education system came up and we were told that you had some basic conventions without ratifying what to expect of you at all and that this particular convention was mentioned. At first, I didn't want to believe that there was another good thing in the world that hadn't been adopted by majority in this Chamber, but it turns out that's the way it is. In the previous composition, we submitted the draft, but then the sad fact that the convention had not been translated into Estonian became apparent, it took time. And then a terrible thing happened. It became clear that the convention was perfectly decent and that it would need to be ratified, but the bigger problem was that the draft was issued by the wrong people, i.e. the opposition representatives. Then they ordered an analysis, the results of which we waited for a year. Then the good thing that went on for a long time was to think it through properly. That's how it's been two years. This time we are putting in the draft at the beginning of the work of the current formation so that the coalition has four years to think about how to refuse to accept it after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-07_U3	Riigikogu speech chair Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-07_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I have an inquiry to report to finance minister Sven Sester. The coalition has put the Minister of Finance on a difficult task, not to say an impossible mission, to find the sources of many electoral promises. It reminds me of a famous fairy tale where an evil stepmother sent an orphan in the middle of the winter looking for strawberries. For this reason, the Minister of Finance is currently trying to squeeze water out of the stone and has sent a draft law amending the Income Tax Act amending the system of income tax incentives to the coordination circle. Eight members of the Riigikogu from the Free Party Group ask whether such changes are reasonable and why they go against documents previously adopted by several governments and agreed with many parties, such as the civil society development plan or the strategy on lifelong learning principles. Let us hope that the Minister for Finance will respond to our inquiry and the coalition will come to its senses on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-07_U5	Good fellows! There's no more calls. I have adopted one draft and one inquiry on behalf of the Riigikogu Management Board, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, the founding meeting of the Estonian film support group 'Our own Oscar' will take place in this Chamber, convened by Artur Talvik. I understand everyone is welcome to attend. Secondly, good members of the Riigikogu, this Friday, 8 May, the event organised by the Youth Parliament of the League for Child Welfare will take place in the Chamber. So I'm asking you to look at your desk drawers and your desk drawers. Good colleagues, let's do a presence check, please. 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-07_U6	Let's start working on today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-07_U7	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, There was a debate between the first and second readings in the Commission on 5 May, Tuesday, this week. It turned out that no amendments were received from committees or members of the Riigikogu. At the same time, it was proposed, on the spot, to add the words 'and the political groups' to point 6 of paragraph 4 of the draft. It is said that Riigikogu committees have the right to pass on proposals to the National Audit Office to prepare their annual work programme. It usually takes place in September-October. Our practice is that the political groups have also put forward proposals for the last three years. The proposal was supported and was written as an amendment by the Commission. Procedural decisions were adopted on 28 April and today, after examination of the amendment, a final vote will be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-07_U8	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. We will begin the examination of the amendments to draft decision 9. One amendment has been received from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to put the draft to a final vote at the end of the second reading. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I shall put the draft decision to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 85 members of the Riigikogu, there is no one against and 1 is impartial. Draft 9 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on Auditing the National Budget' submitted by the Constitutional Committee has been adopted as a decision. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-07_U9	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda. This is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of a Special Committee against Corruption presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, to the Chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-07_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft on Tuesday, 5 May and, within the deadline for tabling amendments, the Centre Party received an amendment, which reads as follows: to appoint Mr Karilaid as a member of the Special Committee on Corruption instead of Mr Laas. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs took full and consensual account of this proposal. So there is one amendment and we stuck with the earlier decision that today there is a second reading in this Chamber and the draft must be put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-07_U11	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. Let us begin the examination of the amendments. An amendment to draft 10 has been received from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. We have examined the amendments. The position of the lead committee is to put the draft to a final vote at second reading. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 10 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 84 parliamentarians voted in favour, no votes against or abstentions. Draft 10 of the Riigikogu's decision "Construction of a Special Committee against Corruption' submitted by the Constitutional Commission has been adopted as a decision. That concludes the second item.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-07_U12	Let us move on to the third item on the agenda. The second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Institutions' submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs begins. I would like the Chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Kalle Laaneti, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-07_U13	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was also discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Tuesday, 5 May. No amendments were received within the deadline of the amendments, i.e. one hour after the sitting of the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. We stick to earlier procedural decisions and we wish to put the draft to the final vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-07_U14	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? Doesn't look like it. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. No amendments have been received on draft 11 and the position of the commission is to put the draft to a final vote. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 11 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 82 members of the Riigikogu in favour, there is no one against, 1 abstention. Draft 11 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of a Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities' submitted by the Constitutional Commission has been adopted as a decision. The third item is closed. Good fellows! Our trial today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! You are all welcome to participate in a working group called 'Our own Oscar'. Closure of the sitting at 10.13 a.m.
