ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, let's begin Question Time. Please, let's do the presence check! There are currently 41 members of the Riigikogu and no 60 members. We have briefings with Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science, and Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior. Last day he registered his wish to ask for six members of the Riigikogu. I will give you two additional questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U2	The first questioner is Urmas Reinsalu and the question is for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U3	Thank you. Respectable Prime Minister! Yana Toom and other middle party members have been putting pressure on Parliament for years to adopt amendments to the Citizenship Act and have proposed that some of the examination requirements be revoked by applicants over 65 years of age. The current government has started to support this proposal and today, in an hour's time, a few weeks before the elections, this fundamental change in citizenship policy, which has already been welcomed by the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a step towards the Estonian state's understanding. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U4	Thank you. Any talk of the government changing citizenship policy is unfounded. All the criteria concerning both Estonian language teaching and examination conditions, which have so far been respected when granting Estonian citizenship, must be maintained in the future. We have only decided to become more humane on the issue that the very elderly, who still have to meet all the criteria imposed, are not necessarily required to take the examination in writing, but can also be done orally. I believe that you also humanly understand that writing a text, whether in a native language or in another language, may be difficult for a very elderly person for various reasons. So this is the only change you can talk about. As far as Yana Toom and her statements are concerned, there are very few things that could be accepted at all. Yana Toom has taken attitudes that are similar to those produced by the Kremlin and which have very little in common with the views of the Republic of Estonia, both recently and in the past. I think it is good in itself that Yana Toom has spoken out in a loud and clear voice, because it also shows voters before 1 March that not everyone in Estonia thinks things the same way and that the slogan 'Let's do differently' means something quite different.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U5	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U6	Thank you. My question was, why did the government tend to support at least some of these points quickly, so we are going to deal with this bill a few weeks before the elections. At present, looking at political party programmes, the Centre Party sends a clear message that a zero option will be introduced in citizenship policy. In their programme, the Social Democrats have also pointed out, in a round-out way, changes in the principles of citizenship policy through the easing of citizenship for different groups. The Reform Party proposes double citizenship as an amendment to the principles of citizenship policy. Citizenship policy is not only an issue in which to make promises before the elections, but also has very strong national and security aspects. Do you share my view that it is irresponsible to share ill-considered bills in society? The only party that is not in favour of changing the principles of citizenship policy remains the IRL in Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U7	Thank you. It's not the IRL alone. The Reform Party is also not in favour of changing the fundamental principles of citizenship, and it is not true that there is a fast-track change. The same thing that we were talking about just now was already said in spring and has been discussed quite widely in society as well. To say that this is an urgent change is simply not right. As regards the change proposed by the Reform Party, this is not least related to naturalisation. Moreover, this unequivocally excludes double citizenship of Russian nationality. This concerns those who are Estonian children, who have Estonian citizenship at birth and the citizenship of another state, and who must make a choice when they turn 18. For example, those who are descended from Estonian parents and born in the United States of America have, from birth, Estonian citizenship through parentage and through birth in the United States of America citizenship through birth. Unfortunately, at the age of 18, they are now in a position to choose whether they will be Estonians or Americans. And if some of them actually live in America, they are very tempted to renounce Estonian citizenship. They are Estonian children who, according to the law currently in force, are forced to renounce Estonian citizenship. I think it's inhuman. I have met many outside Estonian communities, where this is a very important issue. Small children in our young families, born into the Estonian family and told them that you can no longer be Estonian citizens. This is the only change that needs to be made. All the other stories about us having to ease something very much, or that we should somehow share Estonian citizenship as a gift, I do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U8	Urmas Reinsalu, please have another supplementary question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U9	Thank you. Certainly, Estonian citizens after birth must not be in a situation where they would somehow be under pressure to give up Estonian citizenship. This problem can be solved without calling into question the existing principles of citizenship policy. However, I would point out that, now, a few weeks before the elections, we have a fundamental change in citizenship policy on our table. It has been supported and, in an hour's time, with the votes of the Central Party Group, the Government Coalition will also support it. The IRL does not intend to vote in favour of this amendment. As regards changing the principles of citizenship policy, including general double citizenship, last year the Ministry of the Interior carried out an analysis which also covers security risks. The results of the analysis are visible on the Homepage of the Ministry of the Interior and some of them concerning security aspects are classified. My question is the same as before: should political parties also take into account security issues related to changing the principles of citizenship policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U10	Thank you. I am very pleased that the IRL has finally started to prioritise security issues as well. I have heard so much so far that the issue of security is not the main issue of elections, that there are seven other issues. However, we can see that there is a war in Ukraine, yet we can see that the actions of our eastern neighbour are anything but peaceful. I am pleased that the representative of the IRL already admitted yesterday's security debate that the security issue is indeed one of the main issues of the elections and that this is an important issue. I am only glad that you have embraced this idea. To claim that whether the exam is taken in writing or should be administered, while also knowing that all language proficiency requirements, all other examination requirements, remain the same, is a matter of principle, the basic principle of citizenship, is relatively ridiculous. No, we're not relaxing the conditions for citizenship by a ounce. The fact that people learn the Estonian language and, thanks to it, come to a better deal in Estonian society is and will remain. I believe you will understand that if, for example, an 80-year-old pussy is good at Estonian, but she is unable to pass a written examination because she is no longer able to write so well because of the peculiarities of her age, the presentation of a written text is not the main criterion to be taken as a basis. As regards whether, according to the current rules, young people born in Estonian families who live as an "foreign Estonian" can have both the United States and Estonian citizenship at the same time, unfortunately, this is not possible at the moment. At the moment, they must choose and you cannot imagine how many people will choose to give up Estonian citizenship. In order to put an end to this, the proposed change would be necessary, and I believe that it would certainly be in the interests of the external Estonian community.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U11	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U12	Thank you. Prime Minister! It's hard to take your words as truth, because what you do separates from them. If I follow the government's actions in recent times, then Minister of Education Jevgeni Ossinovski and your own speeches will give the impression that our citizenship policy will be greatly softened. That was an introduction. Here's the question. You said that citizenship policy must be made more humane so that an old man can have citizenship without writing. For the last 23 years, has our citizenship policy been inhumane to make him human? The second question, or rather the question, is to continue here. You say an 80-year-old mama can't write. But tell me, why didn't he get citizenship when he was 57 years old, 23 years ago? Then why didn't you want to give him citizenship, but now you want to? Does it look like we won't have any more new citizens?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U13	No, I do not think that Estonian citizenship policy would have been inhumane, as you said. Anyone who wishes to become an Estonian citizen must acquire basic values and also an elementary level of language skills in order to cope with society. I think that is quite the basic principle. I know that this party you belong to has been in favour of the so-called null variant of citizenship since the 1990s. I also remember these debates at the time, and I am personally quite pleased that at that time the position represented by the leader of your party, Edgar Savisaare, did not prevail. Once again, the current government does not intend to change the basic principles of citizenship policy. Estonian citizenship policy has served us well for 23 years and must continue to do so in the future. As far as the statements made by ministers are concerned, they can all comment on this. There is absolutely no denying that we have a different view of the world with the social democrats on very many issues in tax policy and on many other matters. The fact that a person in office before the elections as a minister is saying something that is not in line with the current government's policy when he asks voters for a mandate as a candidate is, in my view, not necessarily deplorable. All of us are asking voters for a mandate for the next period. Jevgeni Ossinovski can comment on this claim of yours on his own, and I am not sure that you quoted him precisely, but if he has said something that is different from the government's position, he will say it to his constituents in order to obtain a mandate from them. Just like you say a lot of things that are pretty much contrary to government policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U14	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U15	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I certainly do not agree with your claim that the IRL has not stood up for Estonia's security policy. You should remind yourself that with the payroll, you had different plans. This is about citizenship policy. Citizenship policy is, as we know, an instrument of power; it is the basis of national security, a matter of loyalty to citizens. Undoubtedly, allowing double citizenship is a fundamental change in the current citizenship policy. Can you be sure that all those people who have Russian citizenship and Estonian citizenship, i.e. double citizenship, are loyal to the Estonian state? Or are some of them loyal to this other Russian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U16	Thank you. That security is not the main issue has been claimed both by your party's candidate for Prime Minister Juhan Parts and, for example, by the first candidate from Anvar Samo in Ida-Virumaa, and several times. But I am pleased if you do not agree with them, or if you say that the issue of security should be considered as the main topic and debate on this issue. Your question was aimed at what would be if Estonia had double-citizens in Estonia and Russia. I don't see that future coming. The Reform Party has proposed that those who have Estonian citizenship at birth may have double citizenship, with the exception of the citizenship of the Russian Federation. In other words, people with double citizenship in Estonia and Russia, even if they have Estonian citizenship at birth, we do not foresee any future. It may be very directly linked to the current security situation and to the fact that the Russian Federation is a neighbouring country, but it is not necessarily an unambiguously friendly neighbouring country, rather the other way round. So that this particular change could still only concern those who were born into the family of Estonian parents in another country whose citizenship they receive because of the fact that they were born there, for example, in the United States. Among them are very well-known children of Estonian people, among them there are very many students of the New York Estonian School, who are good little Estonian children. To tell them that they must no longer be Estonian citizens in the future is, in my opinion, inhumane. In my opinion, they are just as many Estonian citizens as we are with you, because they are just as children of Estonian citizens and because they are born in the United States does not make them less Estonian citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U17	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U18	The next questioner is Marika Tuus-Laul and the question is Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U19	Thank you. Prime Minister! My question relates to electricity. When electricity sales went to the free market, our prices were sometimes higher than those in Finland. When EstLink 2 was finished, the price of electricity fell slightly, but if, for example, there is some kind of failure on the Finnish side and we cannot get the electricity, then prices will go completely high. According to electrical engineers, about 20% of the time this price is very high. Why do we not want to set a price limit for a monopoly in such emergencies so that Eesti Energia cannot harm people? Besides, oil shale belonging to all of us is cheaply in Estonia's hands. Why are people being roped and allowed to raise electricity prices to heaven in emergency situations?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U20	Thank you. First of all, it is important to know that in open market conditions, where market participants are not only Estonia and Finland, but also the other Baltic countries, the whole of the North, it is not possible to say that one particular producer must produce electricity at this price and the other producer must produce electricity at another price. The price of electricity is shaped by the market. The production of Eesti Energia has also gone to Latvia in the last year. We in Estonia have, to a very large extent, consumed electricity coming from the Nordic countries, whether it is Finnish nuclear power or, for example, Norwegian hydropower during the spring period. Thanks to the market, all this is possible. Thanks to the market and thanks to the fact that we have built proper connections in the Finnish direction, 1000 megawatts of EstLink 1 and EstLink 2, which started to work at full capacity only in September, take into account that they have not yet been able to work very long at full capacity, we have a significantly more favourable electricity price than, for example, Latvia or Lithuania. Secondly, because we have proper connections, I dare to predict that this spring Estonian electricity consumers will have a very positive surprise that there will be hydropower coming from Norway, which is very likely to be significantly cheaper than oil shale electricity or some other form of electricity. Which means, once again, that electricity prices will fall in the whole year and also in specific months. So the fact that we have built specific connections will certainly help us to have a more favourable price for electricity. Our electricity prices can be aligned with Nordic price levels, which is positive news, and this price can be cheaper than in Latvia and Lithuania, which have not yet fully joined the market. Secondly, it is, of course, also a security issue: we know that we are always equipped with electricity.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U21	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U22	Thank you. My question was that, precisely in the conditions of the free market, countries would set these limits, set a limit price, if, for example, we really do not get the electricity from Finland. I do have one more question about the price. After all, our country actually controls the price of electricity, we can regulate network charges, renewable energy charges, excise duties that are 4.5 times higher than the minimum requirement of the European Union. They're gonna put some more VAT on it. I ask you what the consumer will get for paying the renewable energy fee. Although the electric windmills have been built mainly for European aid, this company is once again being gold-plated. What does a person get for paying for this renewable energy, and why does he have to pay for it? Why do all these taxes still have to be subject to VAT?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U23	Thank you. Renewable energy helps us to have cleaner nature so that our children inherit cleaner Estonia. I think it will be a very fundamental debate if you want to question whether the protection of nature, renewable energy and energy savings are objectives in themselves at all. Climate policy is being discussed worldwide. Worldwide, it is said that energy must not only be produced more sustainably, but must also be saved. If you want to challenge this trend in any way, it is certainly something very innovative. But I would argue that this would certainly not be in the interests of the people of Estonia or of Estonia. We will put all the components together: the price of electricity, the network charge, which depends on how many connections Estonia has and how well electricity has been delivered to each of the earth's mains, because the more there is a proper electricity connection, the more we will have to pay the network fee in solidarity, in addition to the electricity excise duty, which represents only a few per cent of the final price. All in all, we will have a price for electricity if we look at the average for 2014, which is cheaper than both Latvia and Lithuania. And that's how we're gonna try to keep it. This is not an end in itself, of course, but I think it is important for you to know. The price of electricity in Estonia is due to the fact that we have good connections, thanks to the foresight of investments in both EstLink 1 and EstLink 2 and from autumn, both of them are fully operational, cheaper than in our neighbouring countries. Once again, I predict that there is also reason to expect favourable hydropower in spring. Now, if we can enjoy this connected market all next year, the price of electricity will fall.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U24	Marika Tuus-Song, second additional question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U25	Thank you. My question still concerned the consumer. After all, he has to pay these extremely high prices in the form of state taxes, renewable energy fees and network charges. The network fees, by the way, I remember being lifted suddenly and secretly. When the market was opened, they were allowed to go down when EstLink 2 was finished. Now it looks like Elering's going to be taken out of dividends too. Secondly, Kalev Kallo estimates that 1.2 billion euros has been withdrawn from Eesti Energia in ten years. That's a lot of money. At the same time, Eesti Energia has taken almost the same amount of loan. On the one hand, he borrows, on the other hand, the money is constantly being taken out. Eesti Energia has become a dairy cow for the country. For the consumer, a tax on electricity has developed, because dividends are withdrawn, the consumer pays for it and so the money is pumped out. Why do people have to pay for it all in this form when dividends are constantly withdrawn and at the same time the price rises?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U26	Thank you. It is important to know that the beneficiary of the dividend is the same Estonian taxpayer whose money comes into the cup. With the same dividend money, we will be able to cover various public expenditures. It is also important to know, however, that much of Eesti Energia's profits come not from the sale of electricity, but from other activities that Eesti Energia carries out. I think it is no surprise to you too that Eesti Energia is dealing with oil production and many more specific matters, many of which are much more profitable than electricity production. Secondly, Eesti Energia cannot ask for more than a penny for electricity than there is a market level. If there is more favourable electricity on the market, Eesti Energia will figuratively stop its blocks and not produce a single gram. So far it has been good that Latvians have also purchased electricity produced in oil shale blocks of Eesti Energia. We have been able to sell it to Latvians and withdraw dividends to make spending for the benefit of Estonian society. If we did not have our own Eesti Energia, we would have to pay exactly the same price or even more, because one producer is less on the market, and we could wipe our mouths clean out of dividends. So any such talk, as if Eesti Energia was in any way unnecessary from the point of view of the Estonian state or a usurper, is simply not true. The price is on the market, and if, at this market price, one market participant can make a profit and share it with the taxpayer, I think it is rather positive than deplorable.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U27	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U28	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! Human primary needs, such as food, electricity, and room temperature, should be guaranteed for all of us. I ask why this is not guaranteed. Why does the government keep high VAT and excise duties on fuel, and this year significantly increased prices, which also raise the price of indoor heating? For example, the loss of specially labelled liquid fuel results in a 38% increase in indoor warm prices and also in an increase in gas excise duties. Why does the government not reduce excise duty and VAT? In Finland, for example, the value added tax (VAT) on food products is significantly lower than ours. Why don't we think about our people? What is the reason why the government's wallet is so empty?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U29	You now had quite a few questions and quite a few inaccurate statements. I'm trying to get them all worked up. First, gas excise. The increase in gas excise duty, which once again goes to the state budget to cover the significant costs incurred by the state, accounts for about 1% of the gas bill. At the same time, we know that last year the price of gas in Estonia... Sorry, as early as this year, the gas price is projected to decrease by an average of 7%, i.e. the gas will be 7% cheaper for the consumer than last year. It's the same with electricity. The price of electricity has fallen mainly because we have made large investments. These investments we have actually, at least partly, paid off this same network fee. It's not like the network fee's a random amount on that account. The network fee is calculated on the basis of a specific methodology, established by the Competition Authority. The network fee shall be charged in such a way as to take the whole network, its depreciation and, accordingly, the network fee shall be charged for each individual consumer. Thirdly, you spoke about the increase in the price of fuel oil. It seems to me that the percentage you've written down has been written down a long time ago. If you look at a little bit at what happens now at the market price of oil when you go to the gas station and look at the trend in fuel prices, you'll still see a strong drop rather than a big increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U30	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U31	Thank you. When the electricity market was opened, there was a pretty panicky fear in this hall that electricity prices would now rise to space, and the IRL was responsible for everything, something must be done. We used to sit here at night sessions and stuff. Now it is very nice to hear that electricity prices are low, to hear the happy news that they are going down in the spring. But what can really be changed is the price of renewable energy. This bill has been on hold here for a long, long time. Now this State Aid permit has come from the European Commission and reached our Riigikogu. There's still a few weeks left to work. As Prime Minister, are you suggesting that we definitely process the bill within this few weeks, or is he still in the drawer, just as he's been waiting for us for a long time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U32	Thank you. Who am I to give you, a wise parliament and your employer, some advice? I'm sure you know that there have been all sorts of drafts that have been asked for my opinion, and it is rather difficult for me to take a position on everything you are discussing here. I'm sure you know what the right choice is. I agree that the previous government, including the IRL, made the right choices on this issue. And I've never been sorry to admit it. Of course, the construction of electricity connections was a very sensible decision. I remember there was a heated argument about EstLink 1 about whether it was needed at all and that maybe the money would go nowhere. At the moment, we see that, firstly, it guarantees security of electricity supply, we can in the future separate from the synchronous area of north-west Russia and bind ourselves to Western Europe. Secondly, it has also ensured that electricity prices have fallen. In any case, a far-sighted and sensible decision. Next thing you know, we should do the same thing with gas. It simply does not make sense that we are now 100% dependent on Russian gas. In order for us not to be dependent, we must build proper connections northwards and strengthen the link that we already have in Latvia, so that gas can be moved either way. The same thing actually applies to Internet access, for example. I had a very pleasant opportunity today to open a new data connection with several times the current capacity or capacity. This, too, is a security issue. I believe that all the decisions taken by the various governments to establish associations have been the right ones, and I congratulate all previous governments for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U34	The next questioner is Siim Kiisler, the question is for the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U35	Thank you. Honourable Minister of the Interior! The government's action programme has made one very important task, namely to develop a municipal reform agenda by 2015, i.e. by that year. However, this plan is still nowhere to be seen. I have examined the government's latest report on the implementation of the action programme and it has been said that this is one of the most important late actions. It has also been said that the concept of self-government reform will be sent to the office in December, but to my knowledge, you have failed to do so. Explain, please, what has gone wrong and why you have failed to accomplish this important task.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U36	Thank you. I'd be happy to discuss it with you, but you know the subject for quite a long time. The analysis of this plan is in itself there; it has come together a very good job. Last summer we also requested significant input from the cooperation body. At the end of the summer, we obtained cooperation from all the large input and from its surface, the good people of the Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with the good assistants, have written a total of about 90 pages of analysis of the various scenarios. In the light of the forthcoming elections, the government could, if possible, take a look at this analysis. I'm ready. I've reached the final stage of reading, but before I send the analysis to the government office, I want to read it all myself. Ninety pages have quite a lot of material, there are lots of tables, lots of comparisons and other information. Once the government has seen it, we'll see what happens next. At the same time, I am also absolutely convinced that in elections, political parties could ask for a mandate to carry out their various visions. It is clear that it does not seem very reasonable to decide now, before the elections, that Estonia is going one way or another with the administrative reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U37	Siim Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U38	Thank you. I understand that this task will not be fulfilled at the moment. You said nicely, you know. Indeed, I do, and I have experienced these difficulties in the same role. However, the reason why it was so difficult and difficult to implement administrative reform was precisely the suppression of the Reform Party's counter-work and process. My question to you is, do you have the same problem that I would like to reform the local government, but the Reform Party is holding back so strongly that it will not succeed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U39	Thank you. The Reform Party will certainly not hold back the reform of the local government. If you look at the latest changes or the latest events, it was under the leadership of the Reform Party that three municipalities joined in Saaremaa, and the leaders of the merger there also succeeded in the elections to the council. So, good luck and good luck to Andres Tinno in the western island parish! This is, in my opinion, a very good example that if locals have interest, desire and initiative, then local governments will also be able to join in 6 to 7 months. The truth is that the Reform Party has always supported voluntary accession. And voluntary mergers are certainly a value that residents on the ground can bear and thus make decisions. In this respect, I do not see any pressure or obstacles from the Reform Party, either way to look at it. I do not think it would make sense to make this decision here before the elections, whether Estonia chooses one way or another. I will continue to support voluntary accession and certainly this point in the government's agenda will not be missed in that sense, that the analysis has been carried out and I hope that it will also arrive at the government's table in the coming weeks. The main idea of this analysis was to propose scenarios. From the point of view of these scenarios, political parties can ask for a mandate, and then after 1 March, we will have to look at what scenario could work.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U40	Siim Kiisler, second additional question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U41	Thank you. Indeed, it can be said that the cooperation body has done a great deal of work and a serious analysis. But in the government's programme of action, the task was to develop a concept. Officials can do their job to some extent, but at some point, political choices still need to be made. After all, the minister responsible for this area must also dare to make decisions and say that we are now going down this road or the other way. The fact that another election will be held immediately has been an excuse for the last 15 years with regard to administrative reform. There will be elections all the time, there will be next elections soon. Let me ask you this: what's your plan? Do you have any plans of your own to move forward with this reform, or is your answer just to see how anyone thinks? Don't you have a position on how to move forward?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U42	Thank you. You've had quite an honor dragging into the regional area. You're saying the Minister must have a clear position. I have a clear position, and you also had a clear position. However, in order for this clear position to be made up for action as well, the position of all members of the government is needed. I don't remember when you were a minister, the decision of the Minister of the Interior that we are now going on with the administrative reform like this. That didn't happen. Therefore, it is my clear view that the best way to reform self-government is to promote voluntary mergers by also giving the merged municipalities additional motivations, such as sharing euro funds or other means. Merger grants could also be increased. This is my very clear vision. But if you look at this plan that people have written, it, as well as cooperation throughout the proposals, has proposed different scenarios and also indicated the pros and cons. If you choose one path, you have one minus and one plus, if you choose another path, you have the other plus and minuses. If you read the same analysis, it also turns out that there is no such uniform, golden centerway. And this proves, indirectly, that the voluntary merger of local governments is the right thing to do, as the inhabitants themselves wish. This is the right way.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U43	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U44	Thank you. Good minister! We all talk a lot about an effective country lately. At the same time, the administrative reform has not been completed for 15 years. At first, people were intimidated by the fact that if we do administrative reform, the villages would die out. Now time has passed, there has been no administrative reform, but many villages are still extinct. At first, there was a very strong opposition from some parties because the local government leaders and other officials who joined these parties feared for their wages, feared that they would lose their jobs. The country has lost over 100 million in that time. The same question: is it now hoped that, in the next four years, the Reform Party will finally understand this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U45	Thank you. Dear Members of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association, you have had the opportunity to shape Estonian regional policy for quite a long time directly from the Ministry of the Interior. Now you're assuming, like, magically something's about to happen. I'm sorry you didn't make it in seven years. We are doing our best to make the municipalities want and want to join. Any forced merger is not a magic wand, so let's say we do county-based municipalities or we do municipalities with 10,000 inhabitants. Estonia is too different for that, friends! Estonia is too different and therefore we need to look at how the community on the ground feels about what is right for them. In Saaremaa, see, the municipalities made sure that maybe one of the island municipalities would be very good. There are differences in there, too. Lääne-Saare rural municipality developed, Lääne-Nigula rural municipality developed, and many municipalities have developed recently. We had 255 municipalities, 254 when we started, now 217. We have moved on quite nicely, i.e. the municipalities and people living in the municipality have felt that it is now a place of accession. Doing something by force is not very sensible, especially when it comes to joint action. In addition, if it is not already here, a draft is coming into Parliament's procedure, one should look at how the situation is, according to which it is possible to make joint institutions and otherwise encourage joint action. Whether the municipality is 500, 5000 or 50000 is not even so important in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U46	Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Just before going to government, the Social Democrats in this Parliament handed over the so-called 'democratic package'. Some things were also taken over from the government's programme of action, which means that you are responsible for doing or not doing them together. For example, the draft publication of the work of the committees has actually become a draft for the destruction of sound recordings. Two things are completely unfinished. I am thinking of reconciling members of the Riigikogu with local government councils, i.e. that a member of the Riigikogu may belong to a local council. It's only in the program, actually it's not done. It has also not been done to make bail-free political parties who are candidates for parliamentary elections for the first time. When several small parties first put in their list, they were quite struggling to make bail. Why did these things fail, either because of the opposition of the Reform Party or because of weak pressure from social democrats?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U48	Thank you. As a member of the government, I do not want to interfere in Parliament's right of self-regulation. If you ask for my personal opinion, I believe that a member of the Riigikogu could belong to a local government council. Other issues are the question of Parliament's right of self-regulation. We do not form an opinion here or in the government on matters relating to Parliament's right to self-regulation. That is why I am not going to tell Parliament here in advance how they should organise their work.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U49	The ministers are here as members of the government. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U50	The next questioner is Kadri Simson and the question is for Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U51	Thank you. Dear Taavi in the garment! Recently, very much has been said about the serious terrorist threat that is threatening Europe, and it has also been realised in Estonia that this issue does not leave us quite untouched. On the contrary, our security organisations have announced that people from Estonia have gone to Syria to fight jihadists, for example. I assume the government's key ministers have been informed of this issue. However, if these people from Estonia go there, we do not have any first information about what they are doing there, whether they are breaking any Estonian law. My question is that if people who have gone to fight in crisis zones return to Estonia, what will be done in Estonia? Under what laws are their security threats assessed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U52	Thank you. This is a very important question, but you are putting me in an exceptionally uncomfortable position. If I were to begin to explain this in very detailed terms, I should open behind the tent of work of Estonian special services, which is not really discussed publicly. But as far as I can tell, the special services of Estonia are familiar with these individual cases when war has taken place outside Estonia. It has been said publicly that it is not approved in Estonia and is not considered possible. It has also been said that this could lead to criminal liability, etc. In any case, my message is that, if it is not an official mission of the Estonian Defence Forces, which is quite different, it is not reasonable for any Estonian person to go to war on his own initiative, whether he or she thinks it is against terrorist organisations or, worse, on their side. In the event of these people's possible return, it is still early to speculate whether they are planning to return to Estonia or not, they will definitely receive the keen interest of the Estonian special services. That's one thing that's clear. In this regard, however, you are right that, internationally, various terrorist incidents have been associated with individuals who have been fighting in such crisis zones and who, according to some data, have also been sent back to their home country with specific tasks. However, in the case of Estonia, there is not such a large number of people or such a high level of danger currently foreseen.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U53	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U54	Thank you. Dear Taavi Rõivas, it is good to know that Estonia's threat assessment is low. At the same time, we know that in our threat assessments we are pretty much dependent on our allies. And not just us brothers who committed a terrorist act in Paris were on the US blacklist, for example. It is therefore appropriate to know the opinions of your allies about the people here. I want to get to the point that Estonia's most important ally has closed the entrance to its country to quite a number of Estonian citizens. About a year ago, your predecessor, Andrus Ansip, gave the answer that if the state that ordered the refusal of entry informs the Prime Minister of the reasons why one or the other Estonian citizen cannot travel to the United States, he or she is not entitled to submit confidential information about this country to the public. Will the Estonian state exchange information about such black lists with its allies?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U55	Thank you. Everything that concerns the visa bans of individual persons is more a matter of relations between these people and the country that issued the visa ban. I would not bring it to such a level that it should be discussed in Estonia either by the members of the government or even less by the House of Parliament, to discuss whose visa ban we are dealing with and whose visa ban we are not. This is a matter between individual persons and the countries that issued the visa ban. As far as the exchange of blacklists is concerned, it will probably be done if it is necessary. In the introduction to your question, there was a statement that Estonia's threat assessment is low. That's not exactly what I said. Certainly, the threat of terrorism is not as topical as it is in many Western countries, but we cannot quite ignore that danger. Of course, we also have reason to observe what is happening in Estonia and around Estonia. It can also be said that it is not realistic for anyone to launch a direct military attack against Estonia, but nevertheless this does not mean that we should not always be alert to such threats. Thirdly, threats such as leverage, the desire to influence policies, the desire to influence energy, these risks are completely realistic. We must deal with them very intensively and certainly cannot be ignorant of them. So much for simply commenting on the wording that the risk assessment is low.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U56	Kadri Simson, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U57	Thank you. Dear Taavi in the garment! Until now, all members of the Riigikogu and members of the government have been able to travel, for example, our strongest ally in the capital of the United States. Now, with your votes, the situation may be that there will soon be a person in the Riigikogu, Eerik-Niles Kross, who has been granted a US visa. For months, you've been trying to claim that you're doing everything else, and you haven't come across why this person is on such a blacklist. In the meantime, ever since Eerik-Niles Kross left the IRL and came to your party, your election list, you've found time to catch up? And can you confirm that this is a person of pure background who can represent the Estonian people in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U58	Thank you. Those who are suitable to represent the Estonian people in the Riigikogu can still only be judged by Estonian voters. In my opinion, it is also inappropriate for the Estonian Parliament to have a number of individuals who have publicly said that the annexation of Crimea is somehow acceptable and have spoken out in defence of it. In my opinion as a citizen, the people who speak unambiguously Kremlin-minded would not be suitable for the Estonian Parliament either. But it is the decision of the Estonian people, we are a democratic state, and every Estonian person is able to shape their own positions. As regards the visa bans on individual persons, I, as Prime Minister, do not deal with this. Even if, in the past, the members of another political party have found it necessary to bring these matters to national level in some way for specific persons, and to do so in any way nationally, I do not think it is right. The visa ban on a particular person is not necessarily a matter for the Estonian state, but it is primarily a matter for that person. If I am not mistaken now, there are many people who may be elected to the next parliament and who, for example, cannot travel to the United States.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U59	Tiit Tammsaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U60	Thank you, Chairman. Prime Minister! However, I, too, have some doubts about the very peaceful security situation you claimed to be. I read in the mass media that our big Eastern neighbour is successfully building submarines, bringing under the side of St. Petersburg 150 tanks this year, re-starting in the Pihkva division, the weaponry had been taken down on a 10 BTR airbag and 500 man-bearing Pomorniks, etc. Are these not signs of our security situation, how to say, tenseness?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U61	Thank you. I would point out that Kadri Samson said that the threat was low, not me. On the contrary, I refuted this argument, describing that there are various dangers around us. And even if a direct military attack on Estonia is not likely in the near future, it does not mean that we should not be preparing very well for such things either. It is not by chance that the current government has dealt very seriously with both the achievement of our allies' presence and the permanentisation of our presence. It is no coincidence that we have made Estonia's greatest defence procurement ever and have acquired the armored infantry battle vehicles for Estonia. It is no coincidence that we have also acquired proper anti-tank weapons, third generation Javelins from the United States. It is no coincidence that we are building two infantry brigades properly and, of course, we are encouraging the Defence League. All these things have been purposeful and designed only to be even more sure that no one will ever make sense of picking a fight with us. Of course, in the case of increasing military capabilities, apart from our own activities, what is in the letter we are in with our allies is whether we are fulfilling the obligations that we have assumed in front of our allies and whether our allies are there for us. I believe that last year we have received the highest level of assurances, both from our discussions with President Obama and the NATO Secretary-General, and from listening to their public speeches on Estonian soil and elsewhere. We can be sure that NATO's contribution to our collective defence is rock-proof, and that gives a great deal of confidence.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U62	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U63	Thank you. Prime Minister and President of the Reform Party! My question is to the President of the Reform Party rather than to the Head of Government. Among the 125 people on the electoral list of the Central Party, there are no candidates of this kind who would be banned from our biggest ally's US visa. You have one of the candidates the questioner referred to. As party chairman, have you discussed with your candidate partymate Eerik-Niles Kross about why he has a ban on entering the United States? Have you been interested in this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U64	Thank you. As President of the Reform Party, I can say that there are no Russian influence agents among the 125 candidates on the reform party list.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U65	There is now so much time that Toomas Tõniste can ask Jevgeni Ossinovski a question and the minister can answer one question. Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U66	Good manager! Good minister! When the current government took office, the coalition agreement made it clear that the transition of upper secondary schools to part-time education in Estonian was continued in accordance with the law in force. Now, as Minister of Education, you have started a media campaign that a partial transition to Estonian-language education at upper secondary school is a mistake and this arrangement must be abolished. The transition to education in Estonian has once again been the subject of political propaganda. The signals from government members to educational people and Estonian society are very quickly destroying all the efforts that have been made over the years. Is the current abolition of the transition to education in Estonian in upper secondary schools primarily a electoral propaganda aimed at the Russian-speaking population of the Socialists and the Minister of Education, or is it a government position?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U67	Mr. Chairman, how long can I take?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U68	Exactly two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U69	Thank you. Honourable questioner! It is a pity that you were not in this very Chamber on Monday when I responded thoroughly to several hours of questioning on this particular issue. At that time all these facts and what has been done in the last year were very thoroughly discussed. Indeed, the programme of action of the Government Union contains the same words that you spoke of. However, if you continue to read the same action programme, there are also a number of analyses to be carried out in relation to the learning outcomes of Russian-speaking schools, including, of course, the proficiency of the Estonian language. And there are serious problems with the knowledge of the Estonian language of students, as we know. These analyses have been carried out in a very thorough and systematic manner over the year, and on Monday I presented their results. All of this is also available on the website of the Ministry of Education, so I really suggest you look at these proposals. It's very simple, isn't it? Of course, it is easy to throw a variety of political slogans without going into the contents. In fact, the proposals I have introduced are directed, on the contrary, to improving the proficiency of the Estonian language. It is aimed at increasing the demand for schools in order to achieve a better level of proficiency in the Estonian language. This is something that needs to be stepped up. This is something that needs to be dealt with in the end! In fact, it is necessary to provide for real measures to increase the level of teaching of Estonian in comprehensive school in a very substantial and substantial way. To this end, a package of measures up to 2020 with a total cost of EUR 11 million has also been proposed so that we can get a proper understanding of Estonian language at the end of comprehensive school. While we increase the demand for schools, we increase the responsibility of school leaders, we also introduce an assessment of school leaders so that school leaders are responsible for achieving these objectives. On the other hand, we must be able to provide better education in these schools, where there are currently really not enough teachers to teach high-quality Estonian, or students do not speak enough Estonian. There's a lot more to say, but unfortunately, the chairman won't allow it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U70	Now time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U71	I suggest you read a verbatim from Monday. It's definitely a very interesting reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U72	Thank you. Question Time is over. Thanks to the ministers!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U73	Dear Riigikogu, we will start the plenary session on Wednesday. Is there any further desire to hand over drafts and enquiries? It is. Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U74	Ladies and gentlemen, According to the current law, it is known that from 1 May it will not be possible to use specially labelled fuel for heating and heat and electricity production. After that time limit, any surplus of special-purpose liquid fuel held by a person should be disposed of within one month to the person who sold the fuel or to the excise warehousekeeper. The difference between excise duty on specially labelled liquid fuel and excise duty on diesel fuel shall be permitted for natural persons who have used specially labelled liquid fuel as heating fuel if they hold less than 100 litres of such fuel in total. Due to the fact that pumping out fuel can be technically difficult and quite costly, as well as the fact that selling back fuel may be problematic, because the owner or consumer of the fuel may not be able to prove the quality of the fuel to the person who sold the fuel, who should buy it back, the whole process may prove difficult. Therefore, the Committee on Monetary Affairs, together with the Municipalities' Associations, the Ministry of Finance and the Tax and Customs Board, has drawn up a draft law aimed at enabling the holder to make use of all the liquid fuel that has been specially labelled to the end of its intended use. This is when the excise duty is paid in addition to the difference between the excise duty on specially labelled liquid fuel and diesel fuel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U75	I have adopted a bill that is treated in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act. Please, let's do the presence check! 76 members of the Riigikogu are present, 25 are missing. Respectable! The Board of the Riigikogu, which has held its meeting yesterday and today, has given me one commitment, and it sounds like the President is taking a break until 2.36 p.m. I ask the committee presidents and the group presidents to come to the Bureau's meeting room. The assembly will continue at 2.36 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U76	Dear Riigikogu, let's continue the trial.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U77	Today's first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Let's make sure the presence check is complete. Yeah, it's fixed. Any requests? Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U78	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Citizenship policy was also put in place when statehood was restored. In fact, it can be said that the restoration of statehood took place through our citizenship. They were the carriers of continuity. From the beginning, we have had a conservative citizenship policy, and consciously conservative, self-sustaining. Self-conscious and conservative because a recent history of recent history, where the citizenry was seriously affected, was fresh in mind. In order to ensure the preservation and further development of the Estonian nation, culture and language, our citizenship policy had to be conservative. That's how he's been for generations. Now the generation has passed, life has moved on, and none of the great dangers we faced in restoring independence have materialised. Life has evolved, changed, circumstances have changed. New things have arisen, new details in life, nuances which, at the time when the main lines of conservative policy were defined, were not foreseen, but which would require regulation and resolution, especially for those people who are caught between these regulations, or when these regulations are no longer justified in the case of individual people. That is why this draft has been prepared to resolve the concerns of individual people or groups of people. On a broad scale, the changes are minor, preserving the conservative line and fundamentals of our citizenship policy, but for individual people they are major changes. Three amendments were tabled by the Centre Party Group during the procedure of the draft, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs added three, but the fierce opponent of this law, the IRL, did not put forward any amendments. I just want to point out what's going on. I will conclude by stressing that the foundations of citizenship policy will not be changed. As they were, they will remain at least in the near future. However, we should be willing to discuss the issues that life that develops around us. The Reform Party supports this draft and calls on others to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U79	Please, Ken-Marti Vaher!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am sorry and it is truly regrettable that we are putting such a bill here today to the final vote and we have to admit that the draft has reached the point of adoption. In my opinion, the attempt to trade Estonian citizenship policy is certainly not a good precedent just before the elections. This should no longer happen in 2015, when we assume that Estonian society and Estonian politics have matured enough. Unfortunately, the bill before us today does not show that. The aim is still to address a subject that has been clearly stated over the years that Estonian citizenship policy is unambiguously understandable. There are clear rules that have been followed and which have also led to a number of positive trends in the fact that the proportion of citizenshiplessness in Estonia has decreased significantly, that more and more Estonian citizenship is being sought, etc. No matter how much my previous speaker claims that the principles of Estonian citizenship policy will not be changed by this draft, this is unfortunately simply not true. The principles of citizenship policy in this draft change, and quite a bit. In particular, in the case of certain persons, this bill loses the possibility of naturalisation on the basis of a clear declaration of intent. In essence, this means that the children born here by stateless parents are automatically pushed into Estonian citizenship from birth. It is based on the principle of ius soli, i.e. for the first time citizenship will be divided on the basis of the right to a place, without a declaration of will. This has not been done in Estonia before. At the same time, it is a target group that has for many years received citizenship in a clearly simplified way, but it has had a very clear and fundamental prerequisite for a clear declaration of will, which is an essential element in the loyalty relationship between the state and the citizen. Our clear assessment of IRL is that citizenship cannot be imposed on people. This cannot be shared automatically, but requires the clear will of individuals or their representatives. According to the Estonian Constitution, we still have a citizenship policy based on the principle of blood law, ius sanguinis, which links citizenship with the parents of the person. The granting of naturalisation has also been clearly volitional. What, though, about the unambiguous dilution of language requirements for individuals who were essentially younger than the average age of this hall when citizenship policy was established? Now we are dealing with people who have reached the age of 60 to 65, and to them we say that there is no longer a language requirement. I'm sorry, this dilution of language requirements is likely to lead to further devaluations, which we have heard in this Chamber for years. There is a demand for, and a need for, the revision and simplification of citizenship rules, and this is certainly not a sensible development. Thirdly, the partial regularisation of double citizenship, which has also been discussed here. A group of certain persons will be given the opportunity to acquire a privileged position and to encourage the taking of the citizenship of several countries in part, so that we will see in the future which is more sensible to maintain. This draft is not supported by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. We regret that this bill has reached this point. We very much hope that those who claim in this Chamber that the principles of citizenship policy should not be changed will not support this bill, because it is clearly about changing the principles of Estonian citizenship to date. I very much hope that this bill will not find the 51 votes required in the hall today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U81	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U82	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased, contrary to Ken-Mart Vaher, that we have reached third reading with this bill today. I think that although these changes do not concern a very large part of the Estonian population, rather a rather small part, they are very important for the part they concern. This law certainly bears the objective, which we have always, or should at least have, in the Riigikogu when adopting the laws, that Estonian society should be as coherent as possible and that Estonian residents should be as loyal as possible to their state. Ken-Marti Vaher spoke nicely about these three important topics, even though there are some technical changes to this bill, but he talked about them from his own angle. In my opinion, the most important point of this draft law is that we will stop re-production of citizenshiplessness. Namely, the citizenship of children who, according to the current rules, are not granted citizenship but who are born in Estonia and whose parents live here permanently will no longer be defined for one reason or another. Ken-Mart Vaher calls it a "citizenship push." If things were to follow such a liberal path that a person had to choose all things and nothing had been agreed in advance, I believe that neither the state nor the state's attempt to ensure equal opportunities and human rights for the people living in the country would be necessary at all. It could be said that Estonian citizens after birth could also take the initiative and apply for Estonian citizenship, because you do not know, perhaps those people who have been born here in the Republic would want some other citizenship, so why do we impose it on them? Not to mention that this amendment has also been recommended to us several times by a number of international human rights organisations, whose members we are voluntarily. Consequently, we have also declared the principles and the values that these organisations bear. Another important part, which Ken-Marti Vaher spoke about, is the possibility of preserving the citizenship of another country for children born in Estonia and whose parents have accidentally taken the citizenship of another country, Estonian citizenship. We know that some countries will not allow them to give up their second nationality. After all, we would not want to deprive children who would like to be Estonian citizens, but who cannot give up the citizenship of another country, of Estonian citizenship if they wanted to tie their future to the Estonian state and live happily here in the long term. The third part, or letter, which became part of the law in 1995, said that people aged 65 and over could then pass the language examination a little less easily, i.e. they were expected to know the Estonian language, but this was not required at the perfect level of writing. Unfortunately, since this limit, which was now linked to the year, has shifted to 84 years of age, it makes sense not to relate it to the year of birth, but to the age of the people, i.e. the age with which it was linked in 1995, i.e. by adopting the Citizenship Act almost 20 years ago. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U83	Finally, I would like to rectify Ken-Mart Vaher's claim that changes in citizenship policy will be made immediately before the elections and in haste. This particular bill has been in Riigikogu proceedings for almost a year. The Commission has been working on this since spring, and the first reading of this bill was in this Chamber, according to my memory, at least two months ago. So to call it something to do in a hurry is, to say the least, exaggeration. I would like to rejoice with all those who are ready to vote in favour of this bill today that one small, but perhaps signically important, bill will be adopted. Thank you to all those who worked constructively on the draft law and have helped to clarify its true nature outside! I hope that this is a small but important contribution to making Estonia more and more patriotic citizens of the Republic of Estonia and to making this society increasingly coherent. Of course, I invite all of you, along with the Group of the Social Democratic Party, to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U84	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U85	Thank you. Please, Ken-Mart Vaher rejoinder on the spot!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U86	Thank you. I didn't notice if Indrek Saare was named. One rejoinder.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U87	Thank you very much. The rapporteur has just mentioned the reproduction of citizenshiplessness as an important point, which I mentioned in my speech. It must be stressed once again that the Estonian state has not re-produced citizenshiplessness for years. Facts speak a different language, the number of stateless persons in Estonia has been steadily decreasing for years, it has now reached about 90000 to 95000 people, while the last two decades have decreased. That is why I am sorry, but this is not a draft that could speed up this process further, but a fundamental change in citizenship policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U88	Thank you for the floor. I simply draw the attention of Ken-Mart Vaher and the whole hall to the fact that Estonia's population has also decreased quite quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U89	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We're preparing for the vote. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 737. Since this bill requires a majority of the Riigikogu membership to be adopted, we will first do a verification of the presence. 77 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 24. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Citizenship Act and the State Fees Act 737 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 61 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 12 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U90	Today's second item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Law on Explosives initiated by the Government of the Republic. Any requests? No calls, no negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 805. Let's get to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft Act amending the Law on Explosives, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 805. Please take a stand and vote. 69 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U91	Today's third item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure, the Law of Obligations Act, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Enforcement Procedure and the General Part of the Civil Code Act. Mr Kalle Jents, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was in this large Chamber at first reading on 23 October and the first reading was closed. The deadline for the submission of amendments was set at 6 November. No amendments were submitted at that time, but the Commission discussed the problems of the draft on a total of five occasions: 18 November, 8 December, 15 December, 13 January and 19 January. A whole bunch of people were heard. First of all, representatives of companies that provide such fast-track loans, as well as representatives of banking associations and leasing companies. As a result of these discussions, the Commission decided to make two substantive changes to this draft. First of all, the problem for leasing companies was that, according to the current rules, the cost of the insurance contract, i.e. the cash insurance, should have been taken into account when calculating the percentage rate of charge, which would have created an unduly high rate of charge and put at risk the conclusion of a whole range of short-term leasing contracts. It was also problematic whether consumer loans secured by mortgages should be included. In the new version, who has come to know this draft, it knows that these changes have been made, i.e. the cost of insurance is not taken into account and consumer loans secured by mortgages are not taken into account when calculating the average. The Commission took the following decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 21 January, today, to propose that the second reading be stopped, and when the second reading is completed, we propose that the draft be sent to the third reading on 28 January. These decisions were taken at the meeting on 13 January. It is true that on 19 January it was proposed to change the title of the draft. The new title is, as the President of the sitting just read out, a law amending the Code of Civil Procedure, the Law of Obligations Act, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Enforcement Procedure Act and the General Part of the Civil Code Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U93	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No, I don't. Two amendments to the draft have been received from the commission, and we will review them. The first amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. The second amendment is also from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 713. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U94	We move to the second reading of the draft Act amending the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the chair of the Chair of the Economic Commission, Arto Asa.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U95	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 6 October last year. The aim of the draft is to bring national law into line with European Union law and to eliminate the shortcomings that have emerged in practice. The draft takes over the standards set out in the Annex to the Convention on International Civil Aviation, which aim at organising at national level areas relating to aviation safety in order to improve civil aviation safety. The first reading of the bill in Riigikogu's plenary session took place on 12 November 2014 and the first reading was closed. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees by the deadline for submitting amendments, 26 November at 5 p.m. However, ten amendments were tabled to the Commission for consideration and decision by the initiator and the working group of the Committee on Economic Affairs. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the amendments tabled at its meeting on 13 January 2015. The draft has been technically organised at the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and improvements have been made there on the proposal of the language editor. There were 10 amendments in total, most of them of a technical and linguistic nature. Perhaps I will look at a few more substantive proposals. Firstly, in this airspace, where Estonian aviation companies also operate, English is established as a common working language. This is due to Estonia's accession to the Treaty establishing the functional airspace in Northern Europe, which covers our immediate neighbours. In order to be able to provide cross-border services, it has been agreed that the language of radio communication is English. One substantive amendment is under point 5. In the original text of the draft, the Prime Minister is entitled to exempt certain foreign visitors from security checks at airports. Between two readings, it was proposed that such a right be extended to the President of the Riigikogu, i.e. the President of the Riigikogu is granted the right to exempt visitors of the Riigikogu from the security control of the airport during an official visit to the Republic of Estonia. According to the Foreign Relations Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, there are fewer than ten such visits a year. The part of the state fees is specified. It is known that the Authority will continue to verify how the parachuting activities have been organised and whether there is a proper manual. The revision of this handbook will now be subject to a state fee. The dates of entry into force of the Act were specified. Different paragraphs enter into force at different times. Specific dates have been set to ensure a sufficiently long transition period, even in the same radio communications, for the switch to English. Some amendments relate to the fact that, in the meantime, as of 1 January 2015, a new state tax law came into force which required the rewrite of some paragraphs. In summary, all procedural decisions were taken in a consensual manner. The first decision was to send the draft to second reading today, with a proposal to conclude the second reading, and when the second reading is completed, we have a proposal to send the draft to third reading by 28 January and to put it to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U96	Thank you, Arto Aas! Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The commission has tabled ten amendments to the draft, and we will review them. It's all from the Committee on Economic Affairs. The first amendment is fully taken into account, the second amendment is fully taken into account, the third amendment is fully taken into account, the fourth amendment is fully incorporated, the fifth amendment is fully incorporated, the sixth amendment is fully incorporated, the seventh amendment is fully accounted for, the eighth amendment is fully incorporated, the ninth amendment is fully incorporated, the tenth amendment is fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 740. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U97	Agenda item No 5 is the second reading of draft law amending the Law on Liquid Fuels and the Law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, please address Jaan Õunapuu, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U98	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, To refresh memory, I recall that this draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 2 June 2014, the first reading took place on 5 November and the deadline for submitting amendments was 19 November. The originator's representative submitted 11 proposals. In the form of a working group of the Economic Commission, the draft amendments were prepared by meeting with representatives of the initiators from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and experts from the Tax and Customs Board were also present. The text of the draft text was edited between two readings. I am talking about what happened at the committee meeting. a January 12th. Peeter-Tanel Orro, Head of the Department of Energy of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Head of the Department of Strategic Planning of the Department of Energy, Madis Laaniste, Chief Specialist of the Department of Excise Duties of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, Riina Šamatauskas, Head of the Audit Department, and Kersti Paavel and Kaspar Ojasalu, lawyers of the legal department, who presented the content of the amendments and answered the questions of the delegates. I will now go to the questions and amendments. It asked why the initiator of the draft had proposed to delete the entire biofuel regulation from the draft. The answer was the same as we heard here at first reading. On 24 October last year, the European Council decided on the European climate and energy policy targets for 2030. Compared to earlier, climate and energy policy until 2030 will focus on one central objective: by 2030 greenhouse gas emissions will have to be reduced by 40% compared to 1990. If a separate renewable energy target for transport was set for 2020, it will not be set for 2030. The priority of the European Union is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions as cost-effectively as possible. It can also be said that renewable energy and energy saving targets set for the European Union as a whole will not be made binding on Member States. It was asked to clarify a point which states that public authorities have the right to sell liquid fuel without authorisation and without the necessary technical means to perform their public tasks. This is covered by Amendment No 2. Examples were asked of this: Kristen Michal, Member of the Commission, asked when the state agency could sell liquid fuel. In particular, an explanation of what could be included in the amendment as a 'other public task' was requested. The representative of the initiator of the draft act explained that the wording of point 10 of the original § 1 seemed too broad. It would be necessary to clarify which public authority and in which case and in which way liquid fuel may be sold. There is no such general regime at the moment, and each public authority has organised it in a different way, according to its own internal procedures. That is why Amendment 2 added the regulation that the Government of the Republic or, under its authority, the Minister responsible for the sector should determine the procedure for selling liquid fuel in public authorities. This means that it can identify the public authorities that have the right to sell liquid fuel, and it must also establish more precise guidance on how it is to be done. It is assumed that technical issues will, where possible, be governed by the Liquid Fuel Act. The representatives of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board explained that during the surveillance process the Estonian Tax and Customs Board receives proper fuel on the border, which has arrived in Estonia as contraband from either Russia or Latvia. Sometimes it is discovered elsewhere in Estonia. According to the current law, the sale of fuel is a licensed activity, but it is not possible for public authorities to obtain a licence because they do not comply with the legal requirements. Confiscation shall take place during the monitoring procedure when the fuel is found, and shall also be provided for disposal on the basis of a judgment. Not all possible cases can be foreseen, so a more universal provision is needed to enable a public authority to sell seized fuel in justified cases related to the fulfilment of a public task. According to current practice, it has been necessary to sell liquid fuel seized during the monitoring procedure in individual cases to the Police and Border Guard Board as well as to rural governments. At the initiative of the representatives of the tax administration, the possibility of using the word 'tax authority' instead of 'public authority' was discussed in the amendment. According to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, the concept of state institution may be too broad. If the right to sell fuel is given to such a wide range, abuse may occur. The representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs confirmed that since the regime is established by the government, this concern should not arise. It is possible to define in a very specific way the body authorised to sell fuel. There was also a request for fines for the misdemeanours contained in the draft if the stock accounting procedures have been breached. The representatives of the Tax and Customs Board replied that the inspection has repeatedly established that stock records are not kept or are incomplete. According to the draft, for the first time the liquid fuel storage service provider will be subject to stock accounting requirements, which should ensure greater transparency and reduce tax fraud opportunities. As regards the adequacy of the fines contained in the draft proposal for legal entities, the fines are marginal in relation to the amounts that are being used in the fuel business. According to the tax authorities, the level of fines in an area where tax losses are very high could be higher. However, penalties cannot be increased solely for breaching the requirements of the bill for the storage service; penalties should also be amended in other cases where the liquid fuel management requirements contained in the law have been infringed. At present, an increase in the fines for savings service providers would not be proportionate to the remaining rates of fines in force in the law. A general change in the level of fines requires more careful consideration. It was proposed to the tax administration to carry out an analysis of whether the existing levels of fines were sufficient or whether it would be reasonable to increase them. The committee stated that the next Riigikogu would be able to make decisions and, if necessary, amend the law on the basis of the analysis. All nine amendments submitted for the second reading of the draft have been drawn up on the basis of the wording received from the representative of the initiator of the draft, which received consensus in the Commission on the basis of the reasons set out in the explanations of the amendments. Finally, I will talk about procedural decisions and proposals. The Commission decided to send a draft of 675 to the plenary session for second reading by 21 January 2015, today, to propose the termination of the second reading and, when it is closed, to propose that the draft be sent to the third reading by 28 January 2015 with a proposal to put the draft to the final vote. As I said before, all the decisions were consensual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U99	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Jaan Apple Tree! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. Nine amendments have been tabled by the commission on the draft, and we will examine them. So, all are the proposals of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Number 1 is fully accounted for, No 2 is fully accounted for, No 3 is fully accounted for, No 4 is fully accounted for, No 5 is fully accounted for, No 6 is fully accounted for, No 7 is fully accounted for, No 8 is fully accounted for, No 9 is fully accounted for. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 675. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U100	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present a chair of the Vice-Chairman of the Environment Committee, Erki Noole.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U101	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Waste Act 789 was discussed for the first time in the Committee on the Environment on 8 December. The first reading was on the agenda for the plenary session on 17 December 2014. The deadline for tabling amendments was 6 January. a. No amendments to the draft were received. At its meeting on 12 January, the Committee on the Environment discussed this draft law again. As has been said, no amendments were received. In short, however, I shall re-examine the draft. The draft clarifies the provisions of the Waste Act on the removal of waste batteries and accumulators from electrical and electronic equipment. According to the current Waste Act, electrical and electronic equipment manufacturers are obliged to design their equipment in such a way that waste batteries and accumulators can be removed easily from the equipment. The draft clarifies this requirement. Where the end-user cannot remove the waste batteries and accumulators from the appliance, it shall be possible for a qualified staff member to do so. The amendments specify the manufacturer's obligations for the design of electrical and electronic equipment containing batteries and accumulators. Manufacturers shall provide for the possibility for end-users to switch batteries or accumulators on their own devices or at least with a qualified staff member. It was a general overview of the bill. It should be said that the draft is based on a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council and that such a law will be in force at the same time in all the Member States of the European Union. There are no very high obligations on end-users or electronic equipment vendors, and there are no economic problems that are aggravating in our situation compared to neighbouring countries. I will also pass on the procedural decisions taken by the Committee on the Environment on 12 January. It was proposed to send draft 789 for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 21 January, i.e. today (this was a consensual proposal). It was decided to make a proposal to stop the second reading of draft 789 (also a consensual decision) and when the second reading of draft 789 is closed, we are proposing to take the third reading of draft 789 on the agenda of the Riigikogu plenary on 28 January 2015 (also a consensual decision). The fourth proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 789 (which was also a consensual decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U102	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U103	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Committee on the Environment. Tablet computers and the latest models of mobile phones are made in such a way that the battery is in no way separable from it. What does the law provide for such devices to be done with them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U104	The law provides for a very simple solution for the consumer. If you buy such a device, the seller must inform you how and where this electronic device can be repaired and removed from the battery. It is the seller's duty to inform you how you must behave when problems arise. We were also discussing similar issues in the Commission. It's very easy to give away batteries these days, we have sites to collect batteries. But that is the point of the directive, so that new smart devices, from which the consumer cannot take out the batteries himself, can be supplied by the seller. The seller must be responsible for ensuring that these places are available and that the buyer is informed of where such equipment is being repaired.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U105	No further questions. Thank you very much. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. No amendments have been received. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 789. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U106	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask again for a presentation of the vice-chair of the Environment Committee, Erki Noole.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U107	Like Bill 789 the draft law amending the Waste Act was under discussion on 8 December. The meeting of the Environment Committee was attended by Kaili Kuusk, adviser to the Waste Department of the Ministry of the Environment, and Tarmo Tehva, Deputy Head of the Harjumaa office of the Environmental Inspectorate. Similarly, procedural decisions were taken and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 6 January. No amendments to the draft were received. The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed the draft again at its meeting on 12 January. While things were perhaps a little simpler with the previous draft, because this draft was due to the transposition of the directive, the draft we are currently debating is due to a very specific and major problem that has been going on for at least 10 years. This is the stealing of so-called wellholes and the illegal sale of metal at buying-in points. The Ministry of the Environment and the Environmental Inspectorate have dealt with these issues for a very long time and have discussed very seriously with the Police and Border Guard Board how to solve this problem. It should also be said that only because of the problem of well hatches, dozens of people have died over the years, not to mention the problems caused by the stealing of electric transformers and railway tracks and the destruction of vital infrastructure, which disturb the lives of the people of Estonia as a whole. Kaili Kuusk presented this bill. The Ministry of the Environment has made amendments to the Waste Act. One amendment provides for control transactions as special measures for the national supervision of the Waste Act. A control transaction means that metal collectors are offered to purchase prohibited scrap and, if they agree, a disposal transaction is made with a view to apprehending the infringer. The control transaction is an effective control measure for the activities of the collector of metal waste, at least in the opinion of representatives of the Committee on the Environment, the Ministry of the Environment and the Environmental Inspectorate. Of course, this is a painful issue and the question arises as to why the Environmental Inspectorate should be involved in surveillance activities. Let it be said that the Environmental Inspectorate still has the right to initiate criminal proceedings, although, yes, they do not have the right to pursue surveillance. But why can't the Police and Border Guard Department deal with this criminal problem? The Ministry of the Environment has worked very constructively with the Police and Border Guard Board, but their right to act in this area was the Ministry of the Interior. The reason was that the police dealt with general law enforcement; they do not want special rights under special laws. Once again, this is a very serious problem. Perhaps this is not the most correct solution, but it is now seen as the best solution to a problem that has developed over the years. The members of the Environment Committee asked the representative of the Environmental Inspectorate about the granting of waste permits, the issuing of fines and their size. The Environmental Inspectorate also asked how many permits have been revoked by those who have broken the law by purchasing illegal metal together. Interest was expressed as to why it is important for the employees of the Environmental Inspectorate to carry out control transactions. Because the Waste Act currently prohibits cash payments for the purchase of these waste, and the only way to control this activity is to carry out such control operations. Maybe more about the nature of the problem. We've issued about 550 licenses now. The Environmental Inspectorate acknowledges that this is a large number. However, if companies active in this field have done nothing criminally, there is no reason to withdraw their licence. As I said, the subject is complex and problematic. I hope that, by adopting this law, we will come much closer to solving the problem. Finally, I will also say the procedural decisions of the Committee on the Environment. The Committee on the Environment proposed that the draft 790 be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the second reading by 21 January. a (this was a consensual decision). It was decided to propose the completion of the second reading of draft 790 (this was a consensual decision). When the second reading is completed, we have a proposal to send a draft of 790 to the plenary of the Riigikogu for the third reading by 28 January. a (this was a consensual decision). The final proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 790 (also a unanimous decision by the Commission). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U108	Questions for the waitress. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U109	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Vice-Chairman of the Committee on the Environment! This is a very good bill. It's only a pity that this law was not passed ten years ago when it was badly needed. But here's my question. Control purchases are also made in other activities, such as control purchases of alcohol. Are there any such provisions in other laws? Do you think there could be provisions in the electoral laws that would allow for the control of votes?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U110	Thank you, my good colleague. I think we should not confuse two things: electoral laws and waste law. Let's still hope these two things are different. Maybe another difference in my personal judgment. If we make this amendment to the Waste Act and solve this problem, then we will certainly be able to prevent many injuries, save the cost of treatment for many people and, in a more tragic way, talk about saving lives. Speaking of election laws, if someone buys votes for Viktor Vassilyev or Erki Arrow, it is not harmful to anyone's health and certainly not life-threatening. So these two things, I hope, we can only compare in the key to humor if we have a sense of humor.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U111	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, First of all, thank you very much for your thorough presentation! But there is one question. In essence, with this bill, we are creating the possibility for the Environmental Inspectorate to make control purchases, which are inherently imitation of an offence, which is actually regulated by the Code of Criminal Procedure. Did we have the opportunity at all in committee to ask the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee for an opinion on this, so that we could also find out from our good colleagues what they think about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U113	As I recall, we didn't have that discussion. We had, yes, a discussion on whether this should not be dealt with by the Police and Border Guard Board. As I said, the justification for the Ministry of the Interior was that the police are involved in general law enforcement and that they do not want special rights in a special law. If we look back in history, the time when the Minister of the Environment was Jaanus Tamkivi, then in his time the Environmental Inspectorate was granted the right to criminal proceedings. There was a very specific reason for this. While the Environmental Inspectorate issued precepts, over the years, no action was brought before the courts because the police did not want to deal with this area or had no resources to deal with it. This was the reason why the Environmental Inspectorate was granted the right to criminal proceedings. Even now, you can draw parallels here. Yes, I admit that maybe this is not the right thing to do, but it is certainly the fastest and most effective way to solve this very serious problem in Estonia right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U114	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is good to start with such a classic sentence that it is an unspoken good bill. The problem of metal theft is, of course, quite real in society, not only causing material damage to many businesses, but also endangering human lives. This problem needs to be addressed, it needs to be addressed. Restricting or even ending the activities of illegal purchasers will certainly contribute to this solution. Electrical wiring and cables, road signs and signposts, metal shutters for underground communication wells, rail tracks, motor vehicles or their essential parts may only be purchased by persons provided for by law. The purchase may not be paid in cash and a document must be drawn up about the purchase, i.e. the identity of the seller. In the event of illegal buying-in, all these requirements will be violated, the person will not be identified, paid in cash, and it will be very difficult to prove after this transaction. The absence of a well hatch is a threat to a person's life. Hitting a company providing vital services can also become dangerous to human life, not to mention material damage. The proposal to grant the Environmental Inspectorate the right to use control sales to prevent metal thefts has resulted, among other things, from the joint work of Elektrilevi, Elion, Estonian Railways, Environmental Inspectorate and Police and Border Guard Board. Control sales mean that if the Environmental Inspectorate supervises compliance with the requirements of specific sections of the Waste Act, it may carry out a control transaction without prior notice and presentation to the collector of the metal. A special measure to be taken under the draft measure may only be taken if the other specific measures provided for in the Waste Act are either significantly difficult or impossible to monitor and are necessary to prevent, identify, deter or eliminate an increased or significant threat. The Director-General of the Environmental Inspectorate shall decide on the conduct of control operations. The conduct of a control transaction shall not lead to surveillance activities, incite a person to commit an offence or commit any signs of an offence. Nor may a person involved in secret cooperation, pretend to be a legal person, use a shadow person or conspiracy within the meaning of the Police and Border Guard Act be used to ensure that a control transaction is carried out. A transaction in the course of a control transaction shall be void. Although the effective cooperation between the Police and Border Guard Board and the Environmental Inspectorate has reduced the number of metal thefts registered by the police by almost 50%, metal thefts from substations and railways and the thefts of manholes nevertheless pose a serious threat to human life, also disrupting the functioning of important infrastructures. After all, these thefts are carried out primarily for the purpose of obtaining money for the sale of an electric cable or a metal hatch. Enhancing control of collectors of metal waste significantly reduces the activity intensity of metal thieves and makes life in Estonia safer and a better living environment. The goal is that businesses knowingly abandon the acquisition of stolen metal. Summary of the long story: the aim is right and it is generally the right thing to do, but it is the right thing to do. The controller is inherently imitation of the offence, which is, in turn, regulated by the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is the property of the Legal Committee of the Riigikogu. Since the Committee on Legal Affairs has not been able to discuss this draft law, I am now proposing, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, to interrupt the second reading so that the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee can also discuss the draft and express its opinion. I do not see any obstacle to the close cooperation between the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs, which will allow us to go back to the second reading of the draft and also to the third reading in order to adopt the draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U116	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U117	Thank you. I may say to Mr Tõnis as a counterweight that I think this is a serious law, and if this composition fails to process it, we must take into account that about ten people fall into a well within a year and lose their lives. If you look at the statistics, you will see that since Estonia regained independence, fewer soldiers have been killed in the missions than have been killed one year by people knocking down the wellholes. This thing is a little too serious to play with. As Tõnis said, the issue is serious. If the lawyers want to fight, they could fight here and we could ask them after listening to questions and arguments as to why we don't give the Environmental Inspectorate this right of control. But if we are unable to adopt this law during this period, it is real that we will not be able to process it again before October, we will then postpone the amendment for almost one year again and help the criminals to make Estonian society worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U118	There's no more calls. No amendments to the draft have been received. The Reform Party Group has proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft. That is what we need to vote for, because the Commission's decision was again, look, to finish second reading. Dear Riigikogu, the Reform Party Group has proposed to interrupt the second reading of draft 790. Please take a stand and vote. There are 36 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, with 7 abstentions. Second reading aborted. I will set the deadline for the submission of draft 790 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 4 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U119	Our next item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic on "The Fundamentals of Estonian Sport Policy until 2030." The rapporteur shall be the Minister of Culture, Urve Tiidus, on behalf of the initiators of the draft. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U120	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to introduce you to the development document of Estonian sports policy until 2030. Let me briefly mention the birth story of this document. In December 2012, the Ministry of Culture and the Estonian Olympic Committee signed a protocol of joint intentions with the aim of starting the development strategy for Estonian sports policy priorities. The development document for sport policy also provides for a government action programme. The document of the fundamentals of sports policy was approved at the VIII Estonian Sports Congress in Paide last November, after which it was submitted to the Government of the Republic for discussion and from there on to the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu for the consent of you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, to pursue sports policy. The fundamentals of sport policy until 2030 define the objectives and trends of Estonian sport policy. This document is also the basis for the Government of the Republic to prepare a development plan and programmes in the field of sport. The fundamentals of sport policy are reviewed every five years. Why do you need this vision document? Sport is known to be an area of great social and economic value, the basis of which in Estonia has so far been lacking in comprehensive politics. True, Estonian sports congresses have validated documents, such as the concept of sport (1989) and the Estonian Charter for Sport (1994) and the laws on sports (1998 and 2005) provide for the legal organisation of sport, but, for example, the policy documents on sport have not yet been formulated as an important topic, for example, movement and sport as an opportunity or instrument. Let it be added that the fundamentals of sport policy must act as cross-cutting agreements. This document has therefore gathered strategic objectives and orientations to be achieved both for the development of sport and for the improvement of quality of life and the living environment through sport. In short, it's a vision document. What does this vision say? That activities and activities in the field of sport and related areas must ensure that in 2030 the mental and physical balance and well-being of Estonian people correspond to the level of Nordic countries, that there is an environment conducive to physical activity everywhere, along with accompanying services that support the increase in healthy life expectancy and self-realization, as well as economic growth. I would like to specifically mention here the principles and values of the development of sport highlighted in the document. There are several: fair play, cohesion, involvement and openness, healthy and active life, lifelong self-development and responsibility. I'm just going to open up one single cohesion here. Sport, as we know, brings together people and organisations and participate in the Olympic and sporting movement requires and strengthens people's communication, solidarity and solidarity at all levels. There are four priority trends in this vision document. The first of these is the goal that the majority of Estonian residents should engage in recreational activities and sports. As we know, one in three people is currently engaged in exercise, but the aim is to reach the so-called qualitative level in the Nordic countries, i.e. to be dealt with by every other person at one point. Although we are all moving anyway, we should also engage in sports and knowingly engage in sports. The second objective is that mobility and sport are an important industry and employer with a strong organisation. This is the case throughout the world, including us, and this role must grow. The third priority is that movement and sport are the bearer of spirituality, coherence and positive values. To give just one example, sport is known to require compliance with agreed rules and respect for peers, the ability to win honestly and to lose with dignity. Sport is an effective education and inclusion tool from ancient times onwards, with the effect that it is possible to shape the values of society, expand joint activities, integrate society, etc. I'm not going to go over everything here, it's very well highlighted in the explanatory memorandum. The fourth priority direction is for Estonia to be represented at international level in an effective and dignified manner. The aim is for Estonia to be known for its achievements in sport. We are already known, but let us be honest that our ambitions are greater and we have more opportunities and potential. I was not at the beginning of this vision document nor did I participate in this steering committee because I was a member of the Riigikogu at the time. I think it is important to stress that, in my view, it is very valuable in the vision that the next 15 years, and probably from there on, will be a very clear focus for the promotion of sport, a person who enjoys sports and sports, a person who wants better health and well-being, a sports person who has two words. The logical question following the approval of this vision document is how it will be practically implemented. Vision is an important thing, but how does it work? The fundamentals of sport policy are the principles that the state should take into account when shaping sport policy in the future. These principles, as formulated in this document, will serve as a basis for the preparation of the development plan of the Ministry of Culture for the years 2016 to 2019, but also, of course, for the preparation of future development plans and other strategic documents and programmes, and will also be taken into account in the development plans of other ministries. They provide specific activities and resources for the implementation of the axes and the achievement of the objectives set out in the basic principles. A large number of people and sports organisations and associations have participated in this comprehensive vision document. It would take a very long time to read them all up. Why don't we start with the board of directors and end up with everyone who was involved in the brainstorming? I would like to express my thanks very much to everyone who has contributed to the creation of an Estonian sports vision document. This is a serious basis for moving forward and asking for stronger funding for sport. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U121	Questions for the waitress. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U122	Thank you. Madam Minister! It is a good thing that coaches in categories V, VI and VII are already starting to get paid in 2015, but life shows that the resources planned for this year in the state budget are not enough. My question, in fact, is the question of those coaches who know that we are discussing this issue today. What's the Minister's message to the coaches who were already getting that money?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U123	Thank you very much for your question. Trainers' wage subsidy training lasted about a year. By providing wage support, coaches were given social guarantees, which not all coaches had. Since the preparation process took time and it was foreseen that highly qualified coaches would receive wage support, of course the intensity of applying for higher qualifications increased during this year. Indeed, the number of coaches with a higher category has increased and, in fact, a little short of EUR 3,51 million. This year, this part will be a little smaller, but we will apply for more money from the budget next year, looking at the real situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U124	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U125	Good manager! Good waitress! It is nice that the messages of the Estonian Sports Congress have been tried to put together in one of the papers that we have in front of us, but unfortunately this paper is very superficial. That's why I'm asking you more specifically. For years now, the expectations of the sports community have been that employers should finally be exempted from the special preferential tax to cover the costs of dealing with sport. So far, the Reform Party has mainly opposed this, so this change has not been implemented. What message do you give as Minister of Sport, is it going to stay that way, or do you understand that this is a preventive action and will bring back many times more money than the costs involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U126	Thank you very much for this question. As regards the special preferential tax in companies and organisations, when people engage in sport, this issue has indeed been on the table on several occasions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I have even attended a meeting of this kind. This is the issue of whether we want tax exemptions and we can manage them or whether we find support for sport in clearer and more uniform ways. There are a great many sources of funding in sport. I am absolutely certain that this vision document will encourage more money.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U127	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U128	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! In order to address my question with the previous question, I say that there was something going on here for the Reform Party. But, as I recall, it was either IRL or the Minister of Finance of Res Publica, Tõnis Palts, who completely turned his head apart from sponsoring sports, sports federations and also the Olympic Committee by state companies. It was basically forbidden. Instead, an alternative fund was allowed to be set up, which has not been done so far. Unfortunately, there is no trace of this particular scheme in this document either. Is it even planned to be developed? But I actually want to encourage you and perhaps the Commission to come up with a two-reading break with a specific scheme that could not be turned on again by a minister because of his anti-sportism and leave all sport, especially youth sport, without any money, without state support.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U129	Thank you very much, Mr. Randpere. I didn't quite understand the end of the question. But your proposal is fixed in my memory, as well as in the verbatim. There is also the Deputy Secretary-General for Sport of the Ministry, who will organise the activities of the four working groups that will form the vision into operational programmes. From now on, we can talk about this more specifically.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U130	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U131	Thank you. Personally, I believe that this document does not help sports organisations or sports clubs in the slightest. But my question is about reporting. It is written here that discussions and reporting on the fundamentals of sport policy will be held at the Estonian Sports Congress on a regular basis. So does the congress get a legal basis for this? I've been to the last three sports congresses, and I know there's never any discussion. This document was also received by people one or two days before, and they could not ask questions. Will the sports congress be legal in the future or not? It doesn't come out of this document.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U132	Mr Erki Arrow, thank you for this question. You were critical of certain procedures and processes. I would point out, however, that even if this vision document sets objectives that have not been broken down step by step, I stressed that this is being dealt with in the operational programme, I do not consider it to be general or not to be such, let us say, without involving it. How the congress on sports is reported is actually a tradition in Estonia. The Sports Congress represents the Estonian sports community in a very broad way through organisations, associations and organisations organising sport. Once again, honourable members of the Riigikogu, you have the key to how to do things differently.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U133	George Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U134	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, In the light of this document, I would like to ask a question that may be too detailed. If that's the case, tell me. The fundamentals of sport policy certainly include scholarships. The subject was very sharp up a while ago. In the light of this document, and also in the light of your ministry's work in the field of sport, how do you see the remuneration of judges in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U135	Thank you very much, Mr. George Ratas. As was discussed in the preparation of the draft wage subsidy for coaches, there is a desire to move forward with the issue of the remuneration of judges. There is no solution available at the moment, the most important was the coach wage subsidy. After all, judges generally work in another position where they have social guarantees. However, I can assure you that this issue is not off the agenda. The topic of judges is progressing, but in the meantime a new Riigikogu is likely to take office. The last time in the Committee on Culture, the Chairman of the Committee on Culture confirmed that the issue of judges is being moved forward. That is it, it has not been forgotten or left out.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U136	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U137	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I also read this document, and I do not understand what will be better after its adoption in Estonian sports. Does Estonian sport also have a vision? And does the absence of this document, for example, forbid you to pay your coaches a full salary instead of half your salary?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U138	Thank you for that question. Short-term visions are described in the development plans of the Ministry of Culture curating the field of sport and, of course, in the development plans of related ministries. As I mentioned at the beginning, there is no such comprehensive vision document, which clearly states that sport and movement are a topic that concerns all people living in Estonia in terms of well-being, health and, how to say, more years of life in quality. The vision documents have previously been the organisational regulations adopted by the Sport Act. But it is clear that this document, in its depth and thoughtfulness and because of the participation and reflection of all people involved in sport, is still historic in this sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U139	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U140	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! It is indeed very important and responsible that the topics facing sport policy are concentrated in visions and brought to national level and also here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. But then who will take responsibility for these visions? Which institution is going to implement these visions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U141	Thank you very much for your question. Indeed, any vision becomes meaningful when it is implemented in specific activities and funding projects. Of course, the Ministry of Culture, the Estonian Olympic Committee, the Foundation for Sport Training and Information, but also all major sports umbrella organisations, sports associations and professional associations, such as the School Sports Association, the Sports Association Force, Estonian Antidoping, Sports Medicine Foundation, etc. As I mentioned briefly before, four separate working groups are currently being set up to rewrite the strategic objectives and sub-objectives of these vision papers, which involve specific activities and to which resource needs are formulated. This activity is coordinated by the Ministry of Culture together with the Estonian Olympic Committee and the Sport Training and Information Foundation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U142	Kalmer Lain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It is a pleasure to note that those taking the lead in sport and exercise have set themselves the goal of getting more people on the move. More trails and health trails are all very positive. At the same time, Estonia is a Nordic country. In Finland, Sweden, Latvia, Russia and Norway, one of the priority areas is ice hockey. My constituents want to know if there has been a discussion in the working groups that there could be more ice greys in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U144	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U145	Thank you for that question. Estonia is indeed a Nordic country, but climate warming has had an impact and natural ice is becoming increasingly rare in winter. I don't know, maybe this will change. But there are ice halls in Estonia, true, not in all county centres. The need for ice greys has not been formulated separately in this vision document.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U146	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I still have a question about the special preferential tax. Why, as your minister and also the Reform Party, does not support the production of more money for sport? People would be better, health costs would be significantly reduced in the long term. There is now talk of the expected bureaucratic cost and perhaps two million euros, which would be lost in tax revenue, but there is no real money anyway, because companies cannot support sport because they have to pay a special bonus tax. Why are you opposed to a lot more money for sport than if someone was forced to pay an order somewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U147	Thank you once again for the same question. I have never opposed it, nor will I continue to object to more money coming to sport. With two hands, I'm for it. National budgets are known to be made in the Riigikogu. I would like to emphasise once again that the vision paper gives a very strong argument and motivation to increase the funding for sport. On the subject of the special preferential tax, I recall a discussion in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which showed why this proposal did not immediately pass. One argument was that entrepreneurs who want their people to benefit from this kind of advantage still support their sporting opportunities very strongly today. While I am a minister, I have not been approached with the concern that an entrepreneur cannot support his employees because there is no possibility of an advantage. But the task force's going to work. The idea isn't off the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U148	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U149	Thank you, Minister. It certainly was, and will remain, the dispute as to whether the country should, with its eyes closed, support, with some EUR 50, that people take pills that may have a zero effect or a little more, or that the country could simply give the person or the company another opportunity as a preventive action. There's a philosophical difference between world views. It was, it is, and it probably will. You have read the Sport Development Plan until 2030. In your opinion, should it not have been a little more ambitious, i.e. more focused on setting goals? Right now, I'm reading out that we can use more euro money for training.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U150	Mr Arrow, thank you very much for your comment. Do I consider this document ambitious enough? As a person who has never won an Olympic medal, I have not been so talented, I have not had such an opportunity, however, I am glad that the vision document creates a very clear commitment, need and desire to create a situation in Estonian society that creates more sports opportunities and sports services. Families get, I don't know, more motivation to lead children on track and track, young people get up from the computer and go to sports. At some point, people realise that there is a need to move and exercise for their health and well-being, and in society, there is also an attitude not only in infrastructure but also in order to exercise, move, be healthier, be it the Nordic countries or what someone thinks better. But what's important is that from this base, new talents get into the wings of the wind, and no very talented person who wants to be the best in the world will ever be left out of sight.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U151	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U152	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I would also like to believe that if we accept this document today, everyone will be happy to have a sport, every third one will be on the run, etc. But I'm not that blue-eyed. Does this document, for example, open state funding screens? I have no comparative data, but in my opinion the Estonian state supports sport significantly less than Latvia and Lithuania. Does this document also open state funding screens? If it does, I'll take it with two hands.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U153	Thank you very much. For once, I will read the list of how Estonian sport is financed. Who's funding it? The Ministry of Culture finances aliments, youth sport, major competitions, exercise activities, scholarships, bonuses, umbrella organisations, foundations. The Estonian Olympic Committee finances the preparation of the Olympic Games, participation in the Olympic Games, students from the Audentes school. The Gambling Tax Board finances sports projects. The Cultural Endowment of Estonia finances sports projects. It also finances the Enterprise Estonia. A lot of money comes from local governments. Although this amount decreased during the financial crisis, it gradually climbs back to the level before the financial crisis. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has financed the construction of light traffic routes. The new plan envisages the construction of a very large number of popular pedestrian traffic routes suitable for use by the public. The Ministry of Education and Research finances educational scholarships for athletes. And so on and so forth. This list is very long. If I add any more investments from the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of the Interior, and the funds provided by the sponsors, it turns out there's quite a lot of money. Yeah, this vision creates an opportunity to ask for more money. This is the subject of the priorities of the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U154	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U155	I'm coming back to those visionaries and those responsible. You have appointed three institutions to share responsibility, but, as you know, shared responsibility is not the best responsibility. However, I would have hoped to get an answer to the question of whether the fact that we are bringing a sports policy document into this Chamber means, in conclusion, that the state will assume more responsibility for sport policy, whether it will assume a greater share of this responsibility. Perhaps I ask this question: what kind of institution could it be that bears the primary responsibility for the implementation of the vision of sport policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U156	Thank you very much. The Ministry of Culture bears primary responsibility. Perhaps the fact that the Minister of Culture will report once a year on the implementation of the fundamentals, what has been done in the meantime and where progress has been made will also help you to put more faith in it. But it's perfectly understandable that the department that's curating the field cannot do it on its own. As we know, a very large part of the tasks has been delegated to the EOK and the Sport Training and Information Foundation. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U157	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for bringing this document to the Riigikogu for discussion. You also stressed cross-cutting cooperation in your presentation. I've been worried about a number for years. For certain reasons, when conscripts are recruited in the Defence Forces, only 50% or less of the young men of the vintage go there. These are the reasons we all know. Can this document, the foundations of sport policy, change it a little so that our young people are very strong and can do very well in the attempts of the Defence Forces? Or is this document not the basis for this, or is there no cross-cutting cooperation here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U159	Thank you. That's an interesting question. First of all, I can say that, yes, it contributes to this because one understanding of this vision document is that there is a need to review the school's physical education programmes, to make them, how to say, more intensive, more focused on movement, as has already been done in many European countries. It seems that there may be room for improvement if you remind yourself of your schooling and listen to what is currently being done in Finland, for example. This option is written in this document. Why do only half the young men go to military service? One reason is that they wouldn't all be taken there anyway. Surely it is our desire that our young people, ladies and young men, be strong, healthy and enjoyable people who enjoy sports and do not just sit on a computer. I still don't think it's that bad. Sport is popular among many young people. Although there are some who may not have understood the importance of it yet. The vision document and subsequent activities must still guarantee that more young people will rise from behind the table or from the chair and go to sports. I believe in Estonian children and young people, as well as in families that attract young people to sports, of course I also believe in coaches and teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U160	Kalmer Lain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U161	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This is where it's good to go now. The sports congress had a discussion session that needed emotional sports and activities in order to get more young people off the computer. Does this document include those directions on how to get there? What areas could make young people move more? Everyone doesn't want to walk the health trail, some want to engage in emotional sports, is it hockey, BMX-cross, or is there some other area that offers a little emotion.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U162	Thanks again for the question. The range of sports and recreational opportunities is quite large in Estonia. If team games and athletics are more visible from the competition areas, then in fact, the influence of the rest of the world and our desire to be modern and to accompany life have come to Estonia with a large number of new modern sports, whose enthusiasts may be few at first, but their number is increasing. I am quite convinced that everyone in Estonia actually finds a sport that they like. As for BMX squares or extreme sports, I know very good examples where young people have taken the initiative themselves. I know the excellent local authorities that invest in these special sports infrastructures. The State also takes into account that the choice of sport must be extended at all times.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U163	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U164	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I will examine whether the adoption of the fundamentals of sport policy will facilitate dialogue with the Ministry of Education in order to increase the number of hours of physical education in school in the future. There are too few, many parents say.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U165	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U166	Thank you for that question. Certainly, school sports and physical education classes are an important area that needs to be addressed in the implementation of this vision paper. There are countries in Europe where there are five physical education hours a week, so every day there is a sports class, so it is pure physical education with a specific curriculum or some form of exercise, such as the Finns have started practicing. This issue is inevitably on the agenda until 2030. On the one hand, parents want more physical education, and the school is responsible for the child's mobility, and on the other hand, children and parents say that the curriculum is too tense anyway. One very simple thing I have personally observed is that in the Nordic countries, children are outside during recess. This is possible in rural schools, maybe not so much in the city, but it would also be a very easy way to get out of the room and maybe have more exercise.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Your presentation revealed that one in three people is currently actively engaged in exercise, but we want to reach Nordic level, so that every other person, or anyone, can handle it. I'm looking at this draft decision. You are talking about priority axes in III, one of them is performance sport. Does Estonia also have priority orientations in performance sport, or do we rely on people doing sport strongly and thus turning one or the other area into excellence or achievement sport? Are there priority axes for performance sport in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U168	Thank you very much for this question. As I understand it, its content was whether we were prioritising a sport. I can say that the best respondent would be the Estonian Olympic Committee here, but as a minister and as a person, I say that the development of the priorities must go hand in hand with the timely discovery of the talents, the people who have the will capital to move forward in sport, and we would be flexible in financing sports or their sub-unions, given the potential we see there, and perhaps also interest. At present, we finance them in some ways according to sporting results, but this is not the only and ideal solution. The key question is that if we see the ability, will and talent on the basis of the pyramid we are building to promote sport, so that these people can reach the top in the best way possible. To this end, it is necessary to change the funding of the sites, add some scholarships, select priority areas to be developed. This, however, is the property of sports organisations and the Estonian Olympic Committee. But flexibility, readiness must definitely exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U169	Thank you. And there are no more questions. The Commission's waitress is Lauri Luik. Please, Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U170	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is a good feeling that 'The fundamentals of Estonian sports policy until 2030' has finally reached the grand hall of the Riigikogu and the general assembly of the Riigikogu discusses sports issues on this scale. This is, as I recall, a very rare event in the last 15 years. This document has been drawn up as a result of close cooperation between several parties. Members of various sports organisations, members of the government, members of the Riigikogu, officials, etc. have been involved from the outset. There has been even a separate online environment where you have been able to express your thoughts and make suggestions. So the rumors that this document was born somewhere in the office are certainly not true. In my opinion, this is one of the more widely discussed drafts at all. So 'cooperation' and 'inclusion' are two keywords which are very well linked to the preparation of this draft. The draft decision is based on a 40-page circa document, which was also discussed at the Estonian Sports Congress, which took place last November in Paide. The draft decision is a summary of this major framework document, which sets out all the key orientations. Very many research and development plans of several countries have been used in preparing the fundamentals of Estonian sports policy. We have based ourselves on Finland, Singapore, as well as Slovenia's development plan, for example, trying to learn from the most exemplary in our field. It is a relatively high degree of generalisation, and it is consciously so. Many have asked why here are so general, sometimes slogand thoughts or visions, goals, and trends. Predictably, I will say right away that operational programmes and action plans setting out the sub-objectives and the more concrete actions are under way. It is consciously a document of a slightly higher degree of generalisation. The development of the fundamentals of sport policy stems from the need to determine the longer-term vision of Estonian sport policy, the national objective that we want to achieve, which we want to strive for, and the priority trends to which we are moving. Movement and a healthy lifestyle are one of the most important pillars of survival, also having an important educational, entertaining and social dimension. The development of sport and exercise significantly diversifys the field of cultural and youth work in Estonia, contributes to the economic environment and employment, and contributes to better integration of the various parties involved. What, then, is the vision and purpose of Estonian sports policy? Urve Tiidus already touched on this subject, but I don't think it would hurt to repeat it here. In 2030, the mental and physical balance and well-being of Estonians will correspond to the level of Nordic countries, precisely the level that we have set a great example in other areas. At the time, we have a living environment conducive to physical activity, along with the corresponding services that support the increase in healthy life expectancy, self-realization and economic growth. The draft defines sport as a promoter of vitality, the creator of wealth and the designer of the good reputation of the state. That's what sport is all about, isn't it? Moving and sport are based on the following important values, which are also highlighted and described in the draft decision: fair play, cohesion, inclusion and openness, including volunteering activities, which are becoming increasingly important, a healthy and active way of life, lifelong self-development similar to lifelong learning, and, of course, responsibility. The draft describes four priority developments. First, the majority of Estonian residents move and sportb; second, movement and sport as an industry and employer; thirdly, movement and sport as a carrier of spirituality, coherence and positive values; fourthly, Estonia is represented effectively and with dignity at international level. Under all these developments, action-by-action steps are described and should be taken, as well as some objectives. I come back to the first development that the majority of the Estonian population is moving and sports. As mentioned, today, one in three people in Estonia is somehow involved in sport and exercise. Our vision is that by 2030 two thirds of the Estonian population will be engaged in recreational activities or sports. To this end, it is very important to create the conditions and ensure that they are developed consistently so that the sports infrastructure is accessible to people living in Tallinn as well as in smaller places. I place a very important place in school: on the one hand, the activities of the School Sports and School Sports Association, on the other hand, on the academic side, i.e. the development of curricula. I am very pleased that the idea of integrating new mobility education into curricula, which should cover a number of subjects and increase the mobility of our young people, has been written in the electoral programme of many parties. We know that it is very difficult to add physical education lessons to the week's study program. Therefore, in addition to school sports activities, one alternative is to review curricula and integrate mobility education into different subjects. Of course, further emphasis is needed on people's greater awareness that sport and movement are one of the pillars of a healthy lifestyle, enabling them to live a long, healthy and happy life. This requires close cooperation within the field, cooperation between county sports associations and cooperation between sports clubs and sports schools in the county. I consider it important to develop a higher education of interest so that it is also available in smaller places and young people can engage in sports that they are interested in without having to travel a very long distance from their home to, for example, a remote county centre. So it is very important to support the education of interest. Another development is mobility and sport as an industry and an employer. Sport is largely service-based and also helps to develop the Estonian economic environment, ensuring jobs and income for many people. Cooperation between the state, local authorities, the private sector and sports organisations is an important element. While the state and local authorities must create an environment and conditions for sport, the role of sport organisations and the private sector is to organise all sport activities. One of the prerequisites for development is undoubtedly to increase the competence of sports professionals, so that we have competent physical education teachers who know how to pass on the principles of modern mobility education to young people, wise trainers who know how to direct good athletes properly, smart sports officers who would keep the development of sport in the country in the right way in the future, etc. The third development is movement and sport as a carrier of spirituality, coherence and positive values. The ability to win honestly and to lose with dignity is, in my opinion, one of the fundamental principles of sport. Sport is also a very important educational tool; a sports person develops respect for other people, against fellow contestants, against competitors. Sporting develops self-discipline in man and is undoubtedly an ethical guide. I consider it important that the training of volunteers, the system of motivating them and their recognition develop further than is the case today. The draft decision also refers to this. We know that volunteers are playing an increasingly important role in organising major international sports competitions and sports competitions at all. There is therefore a clear need for greater attention to be paid to the voluntary sector. The fight against doping and the fight against the manipulation of results must continue to be the key to making our young people aware that sport can also be done purely. In my opinion, the perception that doping users and manipulators are thieves should become more common. They're not honest people, there's no point in working with them. They don't play that game played by honest athletes. For young people, the fight against doping is, in my opinion, a very important example. The topic of integration, or integration, cannot be underestimated either. Our former colleague from the Riigikogu, the legendary sportsman Jaak Salumets, has said very well in my opinion that sport is the best integration policy. Put on the same shirts for people of different nationalities, send them to the ballpark, and the best integration will take place. The fourth trend is that Estonia should be represented at international level in an effective and dignified manner. Down here, it has been stressed to maintain and develop Estonia's reputation as a sports nation so that we will have our own Erki Nools, Jüri Jaansons and Toomas Tõnisted in the future. We must continue to contribute to the promotion of performance sport through systematic and regular activities in both sports clubs and sports schools, so that we have a follow-up and future top athletes. These include the development of regional and national sports centres, the creation and gradual improvement of training centres and competition conditions for top athletes. I am pleased that several parties' programmes have been written that these competition centres should be developed in different areas of Estonia. Opportunities need to be developed to deal with top sports in higher education institutions and power structures. I see we also have a lot of room for improvement here. We can take a snitt from either the United States of America, where student sport is very well organized. Of course, there is no over- or re-financing. Financing measures must be kept up to date. They must be flexible and adaptable so that sport can be well done, the same legal space must be around it. These areas, too, must gradually keep up to date and develop. The emphasis must, of course, be placed on activities in the field of research and development in sport, on contributing to the modernisation of sports medicine, rehabilitation services and, of course, on the involvement of international specialists in Estonian sports activities, if we wish to continue to compete internationally. Bringing international sporting events to Estonia and, therefore, developing sports tourism, which is very important for us, also goes under here. In conclusion, it can be said that the big work has been done and it is extremely positive that 'The fundamentals of Estonian sports policy until 2030' has reached the plenary of the Riigikogu. According to the draft, the minister responsible for the field will give an overview of developments in the field of sport in front of the Riigikogu plenary every year. In my opinion, and as has been revealed in their relations with people in the field of sport, they also believe that it is a very big job win, that sport, as such, finds more importance at the level of the Riigikogu. I sincerely thank all the helpers, sports organisations, officials, specialists who have contributed to the development of this vision document, thanks to whom we have given a very strong boost to the development of Estonian sport through this document. Special thanks to Tõnu Seil, Deputy Chancellor of Sport of the Ministry of Culture, and Toomas Tõnis, Vice-President of the Estonian Olympic Committee, as well as Kristjan Pordi, Director of the Institute of Health Sciences and Sports of Tallinn University, who has been co-ordinators of the whole process. The Committee on Culture decided s. a On 13 January, the draft will be put on the plenary agenda for today, 21 January, and the rapporteur will be appointed. The Committee on Culture proposes that the first reading of the draft be completed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 4 February. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U171	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the chairman of the committee? No, it's not. Thank you very much for your presentation, Mr Luik. I'm opening negotiations. As always, representatives of the political groups will be heard at first reading. First of all, I would like to ask Tatjana Jaanson, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U172	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Estonian sports people and social democrats are pleased that the long-awaited document 'The Fundamentals of Estonian Sport Policy until 2030' has reached the Riigikogu process. So far, we did not have a comprehensive approach to the foundations of sport policy. The fundamentals of sport policy at issue until 2030 determine the goals and trends of Estonian sport policy. The national objective is to ensure the well-being of people, to improve the mental and physical balance of people through sport and to contribute to the creation of an environment that supports physical activity and the associated services. Sport ensures a high-quality life for people, and healthy years contribute to Estonia's economic and social development. Sport is a very dynamic and evolving economic sector that employs many people. The higher values of sport are fair play, solidarity, tolerance and team spirit. Through team games, sport promotes both active citizenship and volunteering and activates people to participate in society. Sport also unites people regardless of age, gender, nationality or social origin. Sport also combines different areas of life, such as health, culture, education, science, tourism. It helps to strengthen people's families and family life through common hobbies, providing meaningful challenges and positive emotions for both young and older people. In November last year, amendments to the Sport Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act were approved in the Riigikogu, which created a legal basis for paying salaries to coaches. This was a major step towards the organisation of our sports system, so fair social guarantees were created for coaches. However, the fundamentals of sport policy are only the principles on which the state will shape sport policy in the future. It is therefore extremely important that people's sport activities be allocated the necessary financial resources from the state budget. It is unacceptable that, during the economic downturn in 2009, the income base of local governments was reduced precisely at the expense of youth work and sport, and this has not yet been restored. The Social Democrats have strongly advocated the development of human resources. We will continue to work towards monitoring the financing of sport. We provide every child with an interest rate of EUR 20 per month, which is also part of sport policy. After all, a child can choose a sports circle as a hobby. It is a good thing that with this document we can set longer-term goals. The next Riigikogu must make these goals a reality. I am sure that the Social Democrats, while in the next government, will be able to play a part in this once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U173	Thank you very much. I would like to ask for a chair as a representative of the Jüri Ratas Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U174	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! I would like to begin by thanking the Estonian sports organisations, who have done a very great job in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture. On behalf of our group, I would also like to thank the Committee on Culture and its Chairman. A long-term and profound vision of development is essential in all areas, as well as in sport. I find it sympathetic that the document has taken as a benchmark the level of the Nordic countries. I have also always set an example for Estonia in the Nordic welfare societies. I hope that we will soon be able to value sport and movement in Estonia in the same variety, starting with the movement of young children and ending with the exercise of the elderly. The focus must be on shaping healthy behaviours at home and at school, but also on young people and adults who have already completed upper secondary school education. For example, most young people in special education and higher education, as well as a large part of such educational institutions, do not, in my opinion, pay enough attention to physical education. This should be corrected. A healthy and mobile way of life is important to all of us, not just to top athletes. By developing sport and reasonably entertaining young people's leisure time, we help adults stay healthy and active longer. This also means making a direct contribution to prolonging people's working lives and lives, which is crucial for bringing Estonia's population back up and for relaunching our economy. The document 'Basic principles of Estonian sport policy for 2030', which we are discussing today, is a comprehensive framework that provides a clear basis for further concrete developments and action plans. I very much hope that good thoughts and objectives will not be left on paper alone, but will be realised in the action programmes of future government coalitions. As we know, there are still a number of omissions and bottlenecks in Estonian sport. For example, the reduction of the municipal income base when adopting the negative additional budget for 2009 is inevitably remembered. At that time, the reduction in the share of income tax received by local authorities was, among other things, justified by changes in the Sport Act and the Youth Work Act. More specifically, municipalities were obliged to support sport organisations and youth programmes and youth projects in youth associations. The 2009 negative additional budget explanatory memorandum concluded that the amendment to the Sport Act provides a prerequisite for reducing the costs of local authorities by Circa 171 million kroons. This means that the state considered it appropriate at the time to severely reduce the opportunities for local sports clubs to receive support from the municipality. While most municipalities have tried to continue to support sport organisations according to their financial means, the state has not, as we know, restored the revenue base cuts at the time, even though the economic crisis has been over five years. However, this shows that sport has not been a very serious issue for the last government coalitions. The topic of scholarships, a problem that is directly caused by underfunding sport, is not over or around. On 5 November last year, the Riigikogu took the first step in the right direction, starting to support the remuneration of coaches of category V and higher categories. Certainly the next step is also to review the remuneration of trainers with lower professional qualifications. There's plenty of room for improvement here. I would like to thank both Minister of Culture Urve Tiidus and his team, as well as Lauri Luike and the Committee on Culture, who were largely the initiator of this very necessary decision and principle. Can I have a minute?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U175	Extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U176	The State will continue to tax employers' investments in the health of their employees. As we know, in January, the Centre Party Group once again proposed to exempt from the special advantage the employer's expenses directly related to the costs of the employee's or servant's activities in sport, up to EUR 500 per person per year. I hope that this worthy initiative, supported by the Estonian Employers' Confederation, will sooner or later reach the law. Quite a lot, and unfortunately often negative, has been said about the financing of sport by public enterprises. I have also stressed earlier in this chair that I think it is not a question of whether to support sport, but of what amount to support it. If even public enterprises cannot support people's healthy lifestyles, whose contribution should sports organisations rely on? When I conclude, I once again congratulate the authors of the fundamentals of Estonian sports policy. The future Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic must properly implement this document and implement it in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U177	Thank you very much. I would like to ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Group of the Erki Arrow Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U178	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Just a little bit of history. I, too, must thank the Minister in this area. When Jüri Tamm sat in the Riigikogu after returning from Spain to Estonia, one of his missions from year to year was to develop the fundamentals and developments of sport policy, so that the Estonian state would adopt the Estonian sports development plan. At the time, a few years ago, both the Estonian Olympic Committee and the Ministry of Culture considered that such a document was not needed. I am pleased that we have reached the point where we have reached the Riigikogu with this document. Speaking in a more critical way, this document is very general. Yeah, there's a lot of counter-arguments here, and some of them are right. But our biggest critics could be sports organizations and clubs. Unfortunately, they have not understood what is changing in their lives or what direction this development plan will give them as leaders of sport. Obviously, it will be our sacred task or duty to introduce it to sports organisations and clubs. My greatest criticism of this development plan is that there is a lack of ambition here. I'll explain. If we look at the movement activity and body mass index of Estonian children, we will inevitably see that greater emphasis must be placed on the exercise habits of children. Why am I talking about ambition? I might be lying if I said it would be perfect, but I still think there could have been an ambition, for example, that by 2018, there would have been a daily PE class in primary schools, for example by 2022, and by 2025 until the end of upper secondary school every day, at least a exercise lesson. This would be a very ambitious and forward-looking change from my point of view. Here is one good point 8.4: 'In order to encourage the movement and sport of the population, different areas work together in substance. ... health surveillance is available to everyone. ' Of course we should be very active here. Many very large sub-wives have set their own rules on the principle that those who have not had a health check can not participate in the Estonian Championship. However, when we look at the reality, we see that there is no ability to send and control these young people's medical examinations. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U179	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U180	Point 9.3: 'The organisation of sport is based on cooperation between the public sector and sports organisations... ' If you read this point, many sports organisations will have a question about who is still in charge of Estonian sport. Point 11.4 relates to the modern need for a wide range of sports circles: 'Tops-oriented athletes are created with conditions for competing at international level in higher education institutions and power structures... ' That's the right point. The only question arises from the institutions of higher education and power structures that who is responsible for this is whether the higher education institutions and the power structures, or that the Riigikogu should amend the law so that there is one mandatory area for public universities. The next point, 11.5, says this: 'The aim of the state and sports organisations is to represent Estonia effectively and with dignity in international competitions. To this end, models for financing sport need to be developed... ' There could certainly be a special discount tax versus sport, versus top sport, which has been a very painful subject for years. Yeah, there may be a mess of world-view, maybe financial perceptions, but I think that if a special discount even in the case of sports for people at work were to be abolished, it would be a very specific gesture of good will in the country, or a guide that it values healthy lifestyles more than the expenses of the Health Insurance Fund, that it values sports people more than people who do not want or do not want to take care of their health. As I said at the beginning, we welcome this debate. The IRL supports the adoption of the fundamentals of sport policy. Surely, in some ways, it is good that we review this document every five years. The fact that very many points are general gives us perhaps more and more room for manoeuvre in the near future in order to improve and make the whole social sport movement more joyful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U181	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading must be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 828 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 4 February. The first reading is closed and the eighth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U182	Let's move on to item nine. The first reading of the draft Act on Denunization of the Baltic Navy Division of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Defence Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U183	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to be before you with this bill, the long name of which was quickly and elegantly read to you by the President of the sitting. The Baltic Navy Division, or BALTRON, is a joint mine defence unit of the Baltic States, consisting of the bases of the Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian navy. The contract for the creation of this unit was signed in Riga in 1998. The main objective of the creation of BALTRON was to increase the cooperation capacity of the Baltic navy and demonstrate this and our political unity before our countries join NATO. BALTRON has been a successful project and it can now be said that it has achieved all its objectives. At the same time, the change in the international security environment in Europe has forced the Estonian Defence Forces, including the Estonian Navy, to re-evaluate and change their priorities and to devote more resources to NATO's collective defence and to shaping NATO's new deterrence stance. In order for Estonia to be able and able to contribute to one of these NATO's new pillars of deterrence, or NATO's first naval squadron, we have taken the decision to withdraw from the BALTRON project. As has been said, this project has met its objectives. In fact, the contribution to BALTRON has now become a duplicate of NATO's contribution to precisely the same capacity. I propose that the Riigikogu support this bill, while stressing that, of course, it will not cancel or terminate the cooperation of the Baltic states in the field of defence and our defence forces, and certainly not the cooperation of our naval forces, which, despite Estonia's departure from BALTRON, will certainly continue in the future, will be of all benefit and will be carried out to a large extent within the framework of cooperation between NATO allies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U184	Minister, thank you. There is one question. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U185	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! We dealt broadly with the issue in the Commission, but I am asking for the public. After all, the verbatim report of the Riigikogu is a widely used document. I assume the government has informed the partner countries of our decision to leave this project. What was the reaction of Latvia and Lithuania? Something beautiful loses its meaning when a country leaves. How did they take our decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U186	Thank you. The meetings of the Baltic defence ministers will be held regularly and the discussions will be open. I can tell you that our decision was made without any greater emotion. There were no negative emotions. In fact, they understand our decision and we understand Latvia and Lithuania's desire to move forward. We have decided to contribute significantly more to this SNMCMG1, or NATO naval squadron. Latvia and Lithuania have also contributed to it, but in much smaller volumes and shorter periods than Estonia, let us say less frequent rotations than Estonia. These are sovereign decisions of each country, but certainly cooperation between the Baltic States will continue to be close and effective and will continue to work in areas where it creates real visible added value.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U187	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Kalmer Laini, member of the National Defence Committee, please speak to the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U188	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to the first reading in its s. a meeting on 15 January. This session was attended by the Defence Minister Sven Mikser, officials of the Ministry of Defence and the Commander-in-Chief of the Estonian Navy, Jüri Saska, as the initiator of the draft. The purpose of the draft is to denounce the Treaty establishing the Baltic Navy Division ratified by the Riigikogu on 11 November 1998. At the same time, Estonia is also contributing to NATO's first permanent mine control unit, so it is not possible to contribute to the Baltic Navy Division in terms of resource scarcity and priorities. At the same time, cooperation between the Baltic navy forces continues. At its meeting on 15 January, the National Defence Committee decided to consensually propose to the Board of the Riigikogu to send the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the sitting of the Riigikogu on 21 January and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. The rapporteur was appointed here. The deadline for submitting amendments is 10 working days, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 4 February, according to Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U189	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 834 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 4 February. The first reading is closed and the ninth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U190	Let's move on to the tenth item on the agenda. The first reading of the draft law amending the Land Improvement Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padari, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U191	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Sir...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U192	We certainly welcome the President of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U193	I'm sorry, Honourable Vice President of the Riigikogu. Respectable members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Land Improvement Act at first reading concerns urgent amendments whose entry into the law does not entail any significant legal change or other significant impact. The draft law amending the law mainly concerns the preparation of land improvement plans and is due to the need to ensure that land improvement plans drawn up in accordance with the requirements of the Land Improvement Act comply with the principles of the Water Management Plan established under the Water Act. According to the Water Act, a water management plan is drawn up for each part of the river basin or cross-border river basin located in Estonia. In order to ensure that land improvement plans comply with the principles of water management plans, it is also appropriate to draw up land improvement plans for river basins. It is no longer appropriate to update sub-basin land improvement plans in order to avoid duplication of data on land improvement plans at different levels. The amendment of the Land Improvement Act is urgent, as the approval of the Land Improvement Plans is proposed at the same time as the update of the Water Management Plans by 22 December 2015. Water management plans and land improvement plans are independent documents, but they have a strong link with the issue of water conservation. Both plans also cover other overlapping issues, including flood risks, planning work on water bodies and ensuring good status of water bodies. The public must also be involved in drawing up or updating both plans, including a public display in the county centres. These activities should be carried out together in the case of land improvement plans and the water management plan and approved at the same time. Land improvement plans are intended to be approved by a decree of the Minister for Agriculture, as they are documents of a sectoral nature and the land improvement measures covered by the Land improvement plan remain the responsibility of the Minister for Agriculture. In the light of the changes proposed in this draft, it is planned to amend the regulation of the Minister for Agriculture, which is the basis for drawing up the land improvement plans, concerning the content and format of the land improvement plan and the arrangements for drawing up the plan. The draft law amending the law also lays down the basis for administrative supervision of the implementation of the Land Improvement Act. Surveillance by the Office has the characteristics of both national and administrative supervision. Administrative supervision is carried out by the Agricultural Authority over the public authorities, whose land is managed by a land improvement system. As a body responsible for administrative supervision, the Agricultural Office has the right to give instructions to the supervisory authority to remedy the deficiencies. When choosing administrative supervision measures, the administrative supervisory authority must take into account the need to choose a measure that imposes a less onerous burden on the supervising authority. Thank you and I wish you the strength to discuss the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U194	Minister, the gratitude is mutual. There are no questions. I ask Tatjana Jaanson, member of the Rural Commission, to speak at the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U195	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Rural Commission discussed the draft law amending the Land Improvement Act 830 twice on 13 and 20 January. At the meeting of the Commission on 13 January, the first procedural decisions on the draft were taken: to send draft 830 to first reading today and to appoint me rapporteur for the Commission. The substantive debate on the draft was held on 20 January. This session was attended by Marko Gorban, Head of the Rural Development Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, and Helju Hubel, Head of the same department, who presented the draft and answered the questions asked by the members of the Commission. As the Minister gave a thorough overview of the draft, I will not dwell on it. The following consensual decisions were taken by the Commission: to propose ending the first reading of the draft and to propose setting the deadline of 26 January at 14 p.m. for the submission of amendments: Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U196	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 830 amendments. a 26 January at 14 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 10th item on the agenda is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U197	Let's move on. The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Rescue Services Act and related amendments to other laws. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U198	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! One of the most important objectives of the bill before you is to reduce the administrative burden on the Police and Border Guard Board and the Rescue Board and to make their work more effective. To this end, the PPA extends the competence to resolve service issues and extends the circle of sworn receivers in the PBA and the Rescue Board and further empowers the granting and promotion of service levels. The aim of the draft is also to enable the agencies to better plan their work and to allow for more flexibility in the organisation of work. Some of the amendments aim at regularising legislation and aligning it with the principle of equal treatment. It also aims at modernising legislation and ensuring legal clarity. The provision of information obtained in the performance of the tasks of the security authorities is also more clearly regulated and, in order to ensure legal clarity, the Law of the Financial Supervision Authority and the Law of the Notariat will be supplemented by laying down the basis for the provision of information held by the Financial Supervision Authority and notaries to the security authorities when necessary for the performance of their duties. The laws of the special service shall be brought into line with the wording of the Civil Service Act which entered into force on 1 April of the previous year. I'll tell you a little bit more. Firstly, the organisation of the service and the extension of competence. According to the current law, only the Director-General has the competence to settle matters of service in the PBGB, in particular appointment, salary, etc. The Director General is currently signing 2300 staff-related documents per year. The delegation of these powers would reduce the burden on the Director-General by 900 circa decrees per year. The second amendment, the introduction of a uniform allowance for police officers, means that the law is supplemented by a provision whereby uniform compensation is paid to police officers whose duties include the protection of the President of the Republic and his family, as well as of the President, Prime Minister, foreign Heads of State, Heads of State or Foreign Ministers who have resigned as provided for in the law, and of the person appointed by the Minister of Internal Affairs or his authorised person. The requirements for police officers' clothing are set by labelling, national protocol and the specific features of the work, which is why this amendment is necessary. Extending the circle of recipients of the oath would allow for greater flexibility in taking the oath and would allow for a reduction in the resources needed to take the oath, such as time, driving costs, etc. With regard to the change in the competence to give and change the ranks of police officers, it is proposed that, until the Minister gives the rank of senior commissar, police lieutenant, police captain, police major, police colonel, police colonel, police general inspector and police general, some changes could be made. The Minister of the Interior could give the rank of police colonel, police colonel, police general inspector and police general. In this way, giving grades of service can be made a little more flexible. The payment of compensation to a police officer for the use of a private motor vehicle is also amended. This procedure is currently established by a regulation, therefore it was not in line with the legislative mandate. Under current law, both the official and the staff member must have at least 11 hours of consecutive rest during a 24-hour period. The amendment introduces a derogation for rescue workers, police officers and security authorities, provided that the work does not adversely affect the health and safety of the rescue officer and the rescue worker. This will also allow special servants to work in a 24-hour shift where necessary, which will in turn provide a more flexible and efficient organisation of work. A specific issue is the dactyloscopying of persons involved in demining activities, the taking of DNA samples from them and the creation of a legal basis for this. It is precisely in order to protect these persons themselves that all this is happening. At present, it is not possible to regulate legally situations where fingerprints or DNA are found at the crime scene and then it becomes apparent that they belong to persons involved in dactyloscopying and DNA sampling. The aim is to clarify this process, in particular in the case of offences involving explosives. If the law currently provides for the obligation of secrecy of information held by the Financial Supervision Authority and notaries, and neither the Notary nor the Financial Supervision Authority can disclose confidential information to the Security Authority solely on the basis of the Security Authorities Act, then the Financial Supervision Authority Act and the Notarial Law now lay down clear grounds for granting information held by the Financial Supervision Authority and notaries to the Security Authorities. As regards the amendment of the salary regime of the officials of the security authorities, the current law imposes an obligation on the Government of the Republic to lay down salary regulations for both the Information Office and the Defence Police Department officials. At the same time, the Minister of the Interior sets the salary rates for both the PB and the EP police officers. The amendment provides for the introduction of wage regulations for both the kapo officials and police officers into the competence of the Minister of the Interior. The updating of the provisions on discreet entry used in the exercise of the tasks of security authorities means that the procedures carried out by security authorities and the surveillance activities provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure are aligned. If there is a disguised entry in any way, the same provisions as those already contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure shall apply. The purpose of establishing a clearer regulation for the transmission of information held by a security authority to public authorities and other persons is to lay down the grounds on which the security authority may communicate and when the information is to be communicated to another public authority or other party. The security authority shall forward the information to another national authority where this is necessary for the performance of the tasks entrusted to it. The security authority must also transmit information to the national authority as well as to natural or legal persons, where there is a risk of terrorist offences or there is a need to prevent them from committing such offences. The security authority may transfer information to a public undertaking where this is necessary for the performance of its tasks. The aim of the harmonisation of the reimbursement of study costs of the graduates of the National Defence Academy is that regardless of which specialty the National Defence Academy ends, the reimbursement of study costs should be the same within the same school. The proposal contains a number of terminology clarifications, in particular from the Public Service Act, which entered into force on 1 April. I believe most of the changes have now been made. If you have any questions, I'll answer. I support the Committee on Legal Affairs' proposal to conclude the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U199	Thank you. You have a question. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U200	Thank you. There is now a great deal of noise in society about the wages and night wages of rescue workers. Trade union leaders and the union at all are afraid that night work will go away. Basically, there hasn't been a raise. It has been argued here that if a couple of years ago it was promised that wages would rise by 7%, it would actually increase by much less. The main wage rose in the Rescue Board and the offices, but did not rise to those who were directly involved in the rescue work. What do you say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U201	Thank you. I'll read the papers, but I have to say that fear is definitely in vain. We have foreseen an increase of 4.2% for the Rescue Board this year. The Rescue Board has also introduced to me their plans to raise the wages of the rescuers. The greatest rise comes from the saviors of the lowest group, the first group, whose wages should increase by 15% this year. Different groups have different wage changes. Speaking of night work, I certainly have no concern at all because of the fact that separate night work records remain. The reason why this legislative amendment was made in cooperation with the Rescue Board and the Ministry of the Interior was, above all, to organise the state's salary records and salary reviews. For example, the prison service has been talking for a long time about a basic salary, even though there is a 24 - hour ministry there too, with shifts. If the rescuers have a 24-hour shift, it's always eight hours of night work. In order to be comparable not only to basic salaries, but to have a clear, understandable and simple approach to wages, it was proposed that the total wage be agreed, as in prison services, for example. If anyone is afraid that there will be no raise, I have already said that the Salvation Board's payroll fund will increase by 4.2%, which is EUR 1.45 million. I'm sure the paychecks will go up. There's nothing else to say. One more important thing, though. I very much hope that the union of rescue workers will have in mind that basic salaries will be taken into account when paying the various fees. For holiday pay and different fees, it should be taken into account that the calculation methodology is different and that the "night work premium" is not included when certain fees are paid. In my opinion, it would be reasonable for the pay system to be clear, understandable and simple for everyone. If the saviors themselves wish to keep separate night work and non-night work records, then, for God's sake, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U202	Viktor Vassilyev, please, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U203	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Your answer to the previous question raised further questions. If wages rise by 4.2%, it does not offer opportunities to significantly increase pay for night work. But paying separately for night work was exactly what motivated police officers to work at night, for example. Ordinary citizens are still interested in their safety, with enough police officers outside at night. If they are not counted separately, please tell us how people are motivated to want to do this difficult but very necessary work at night.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U204	Thank you, Mr Vasilyev. Now you're full of shit. I'm sorry I said that! We're talking about an extra night job for the rescuers, which is an option. The rescuers have a 24-hour shift. In the 24-hour shift, as far as I'm concerned, when I look at the clock and the day, there's always a night.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U205	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U206	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I'm still asking why the savior union had to hear about this change afterwards. Why were they not involved in this process? Why has there been no involvement in this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U207	Thank you. Before I came here, I spoke to the Director General of the Rescue Board, and I also asked my house's Human Resources Division how this change came about. At least according to this information, the union of rescuers was very clearly aware of the changes and has been discussed with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U208	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U209	Good chairman of the sitting! Dear Minister, By this day, rescuers have entered into a collective agreement with the Rescue Board, which has agreed that there will be an extra fee for night work. Why isn't the Home Office accepting this agreement and trying to dismantle the Rescue Board by changing the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U210	Thank you. Surely we will recognise the collective agreement when it is concluded. As I said, this is not a topic that we should be very concerned about here. The purpose of this amendment, which was also negotiated between the Rescue Board and the Human Resources Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, was to clarify the salary arrangements: to make sure everyone knows what the basic salary is, and to ensure that the calculation of various benefits or fees is based on the basic salary, which is one and agreed. Compared to services, one service includes an agreed night wage and does not include an agreed night wage. This makes it very difficult to compare national authorities. I brought here a comparison between the prison service and the rescue service. This proposal therefore had to be made purely out of a desire to have a clearer and more transparent wage setting in the country. If there is a desire to consider a separate night pay, which is a 24-hour shift, and everyone has that night pay included, and a separate daily fee, then I have nothing against it. For God's sake, it can be done. However, we must understand that 100 units of money will still remain in 100 units of money. If 100 units of money are distributed between night work and day work, the amount of money will not change, but the current calculation will simply continue. According to the proposal, the basis for future calculation would have been higher basic salary. In my opinion, there is no problem if the Riigikogu wishes to maintain the current salary arrangements of the rescuers. It is simply necessary to know that certain comparisons, which will then be made between, for example, the agencies, do not reflect all staff equally.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U211	Dear Minister, Now, there are more questions. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U212	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You understand what these questions are all about. Many times, wage increases have been allowed for some occupations, but after that, these people will see that the wage increase came in a rhetorical way, but the income decreased. I would like you to clarify. You said that after the adoption of this law, the Salvation Fund will not be reduced, but, on the contrary, it will increase by EUR 1.45 million. Does this mean that you can now tell us what the savior's wages, overtimes, bonuses were last year, and what amounts are foreseen in this year's payroll? Can you also say this numerically, showing that their wages are planned to increase and their income is not reduced due to the loss of night work?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U213	Thank you. I can confirm that the Salvation Board's payroll fund is EUR 1.45 million higher this year, which is 4.2% of their payroll fund. Under this payroll, the Rescue Board has proposed to change the salaries of rescue workers. I don't have that chart on me, but I know that the biggest difference is the pay of the first group of rescuers. Let's cut the night wages and all that and talk about income. According to the Rescue Board's information, the wage increases from the average to the lowest wage level, i.e. the first group of commandos. There, the average salary of the staff increases by 15%. We are looking at the wage change that took place between 2013 and 2014. For the sake of all the rescuers and the verbatim, I would point out that the rescuers are the savior, the senior rescuer and the executive rescuer, the average wage is the basic salary plus the statutory extra remuneration for working at night and on public holidays, and no irregular fees, such as bonuses, have been added. While the average salary for all rescuers in 2012 was EUR 689, it was EUR 740 in 2013 and EUR 774 in 2014. I don't have a record of all the rescue groups this year yet, but it's estimated that there's an increase of 41⁄2 percent. Yes, I can assure you that this year, in February, the salary paid for January will be different for the different groups, but of course the salary has risen.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U214	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U215	Thank you. You said if the rescuers want separate night work records, we'll put it back and do it. The reason why this topic is hot is because they are not sure whether it is being done or not. That's why it's in the papers every day, and people are discussing it. Do you firmly confirm that this calculation is being made? After all, Toomas Suigusar, a member of the union board of workers in the Salvation Area, has said directly that they do not believe their promises because they have been deceived by wages before, even when the minister was Ken-Marti Vaher. Can they believe your promise this time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U216	Thank you. I can assure you that those groups for whom the Rescue Board's management has foreseen a wage increase, regardless of what the night pay or basic salary is, will receive as much as EUR 1.45 million of taxpayers' money that you decided to allocate to the wage increase. I can confirm that. I don't have a problem here. I have no problem even if there is no change. Life doesn't stop for that. Nothing changes but the fact that we are sticking to the current situation, where the basic salaries of the various services are not so well comparable, and we also stick to the fact that wage benchmarks are not transparent in the national wage arrangements, as wages are made up of so many components. After all, in the new Civil Service Act, we pointed out that the basic salary must be at least 75% and that the variable salary must not exceed 25% of the total wage. So all the rescuers can be calm, these wage increases, which have already been told to them, they have been told what their salaries are from 1 January 2015 to, of course, will come. Where the hell are they? Of course they will.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U217	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U218	Minister, thank you very much. I have a general philosophy question. It is clear that there is no need to eliminate night work records for a 4% rise in the pay of rescuers. Your previous answers sounded like you're doing this to get a clearer wage bill. It can be seen that the pursuit of simplicity on your initiative will probably save all kinds of accounting costs; the state will try to cut red tape. But at the same time, it is the same government office, which you are also sitting in at the meetings, for example, which has decided that companies need to have more accounting costs instead, I mean, for example, declaring thousands of euros in transactions. Would it not be fair to give red tape to businesses if the state tried to make its life easier?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U219	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U220	Thank you. It is indeed a philosophical question that cannot fit into the framework of this draft. I will say very briefly that if red tape can be reduced, of course it must be reduced. So philosophically and briefly, I will answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U221	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Is night work paid higher than regular work?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U222	Thank you. Under the current rules, the night work coefficient is 1,25 and the daily work coefficient is 1,0. It is proposed to add 1,25 to 1,0. Let me give you an example. At present, the maximum basic salary of the third group's savior working in the command is EUR 827. The basic salary shall be supplemented by an additional amount for night work, an average of 68 euros. If the legal amendment that is on your desk becomes effective, the maximum basic salary of the savior would be EUR 895 or EUR 827 + 68 = 895. I can't tell by heart, but if there is a wage increase for the rescuers of the third group, then this 895 euro will be added to the wage increase planned for this year. I hope that this was a clear and understandable answer in figures as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U223	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Jüri Morozov, member of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U224	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I will report the debate on this draft in the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee. The Commission meeting took place on Monday 12 January. The members of the Commission, Marko Pomerants, Igor Gräzin, Kalle Jents, Jüri Morozov and Kalle Laane, took part. This time there was no Ken-Mart Vaher, Peter Võsa and Valdo Randpere. How? Ah! Neeme the Great was in charge of the hearing. Yeah! Mr Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, Madis Timpson, Legal Adviser to the Personnel Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, Svetlana Master, Legal Adviser to the Department of Law Enforcement and Criminal Policy, Marju Aibast, Legal Adviser to the Department of Internal Security Policy, and Eero Svarval, Legal Adviser to the Department of Internal Security Policy, were invited to explain the amendment of the Police and Border Guard Act and the Emergency Services Act and related to the amendment of other laws. The Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, presented to the Commission amendments to the Police and Border Guard Act and to the Rescue Services Act and to the related draft law amending other laws. During the meeting, the Minister was asked specific questions concerning the remuneration of rescue staff and the calculation of remuneration. The minister answered those questions. You just heard the answers from the Minister here. The Commission took the following procedural decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, 21 January, to propose that the first reading be closed, to appoint Jüri Morozov as rapporteur and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 26 January at 13 a.m. The decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U225	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Tarmo Tamme, representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U226	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! It is the reality of Estonia today that, for example, the salaries of police and border guards can only be increased if some workers are made redundant. Now the next step is: the pay of rescuers can be increased if you stop paying extra for night work. Today, we are discussing a subject that can be summarised briefly: if the rescuers save the needy, then who will save the rescuers? Estonian rescuers are worried and for a reason. The state wants to take away the night work premium from them and put it into the basic salary. The basic wages of the Saviors are rising, and the coalition can say that what these rescuers are complaining about, their wages are rising. At the same time, rescuers must be happy if their wages do not fall, but maintain their former levels. The terms and conditions of pay must be agreed with the employees. There are trade unions covering fields and occupations in Estonia as well. The Saviors are united by a union of rescuers, who are completely excluded from discussing these issues. The question arises as to why we do not respect one another and try to make decisions concerning other people behind their backs. It was only when this question reached the Riigikogu that the union of rescuers found out that the state had taken up their salaries and made decisions that were detrimental to them. But until then, the Rescue Board was completely silent. Think about the motivation the rescuers have to do their job! During the Masu period, the country gathered dozens of rescue workers and nine rescue officers, while the wages of the remaining workers were cut by 12 to 15%. Until today, the rescuers have been hoping to get at least as much pay as they used to get. I'm not talking about buying power. The price increase has eaten the wages of the rescuers long ago. If last year the state raised the pay of rescuers by an average of 7%, then once again a cinema with additional fees was made. While the wages of most rescuers rose, part of the extra costs were taken away and their wages ultimately decreased. We are not talking about mysterious sums here. Every euro is affected by the wages of the rescuers. We're talking about a salary that leaves 650 euros in the hands of the savior. Right now, the rescuers are afraid that if someone's salary ever rises, it will come through layoffs and the closure of the rescue commandos. Once again there is uncertainty, neither the Ministry of the Interior nor the Rescue Board can answer the questions of the rescuers. Let's face it, the people's questions are still unanswered. There is no clarity as to why an exception should be made and the wages of the rescuers should be taken into account. The argument that wage calculation will then be easier does not apply. Rather, the key issue may be that the rescuers will be deprived of any opportunity to agree on a coefficient for night work in the future. Saving at the expense of the rescuers has created a situation where we do not have enough rescue commandos and lacks the men with the necessary training. The state has done nothing to improve the situation of the rescuers. Sufferers are both rescuers and ordinary people, who receive help through great hardships. The worst part is that the coalition doesn't have a long-term vision for the rescuers. Definitely forward to where? The question remains when will the saviors get a fair wage for their work and when can people be sure that the rescuers will act effectively, and all those who are in need will be helped like order and duty. So far, we have only seen a delay in solving problems. But it can't go on for long. The problems pile up, and the motivation of the rescuers will run out at some point. Non-payment of the extra charge for night work is only one step on this road. The Centre Party Group proposes to reject this draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U227	Now I ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair from the Government of the Republic, even a member of the Government of the Republic, Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U228	Dear members of the Riigikogu, it is not nice to lie about the remote control! Not pretty! If someone comes in here on the remote and dares to say that the rise in the pay of the rescuers, according to your understanding, is a loss of the extra fee, it's a pure lie. I proved it to you in figures, I said it here during the presentation and I say again that the Salvation Fund will increase by EUR 1.45 million this year. With this money, the savior's salary will be increased. The biggest increase is the wages of the first group, the ones with the lowest wage levels. If you want to lie, remember, this isn't the place to do it! This is not done in the Riigikogu's remote control! As for the fact that there is no vision, ask the Rescue Board and make these things a little clearer. The Rescue Board just finished its vision of 2025 at the end of last year. It's worth catching up on. I agree with the fact that the wages of the rescuers need to be increased more. But we can raise the pay of saviors and policemen as much as the hardworking hands of taxpayers have brought taxes to the state budget. I very much hope that the Centre Party will think before proposing any such proposals, for example, to reject the draft now. This bill solves a lot of other concerns. If you want to deal with this issue of night work, the Committee on Legal Affairs is the right place to make an amendment. I have nothing against this amendment, which proposes continuing with the current system. Whether to continue with the current system or with the proposed new solution, neither will bring more money to the rescuers or take it away. What brings the money is extra money from the payroll, and they're allocated to the Rescue Board. Just saying something here that's not true isn't appropriate. Make amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U229	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. On this table is a letter signed by Kadri Samson to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu. The Centre Party Group has proposed to reject the draft 810 at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the draft proposal of the Estonian Centre Party to reject the item 810 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. I rang at least a minute and 15 seconds. Gotta be faster! 7 votes to 34 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 810 amendments on 26 January at 13:00. The first reading is closed and the 11th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U230	Let's move on to item 12. The first reading of the Act amending the Act on the Implementation of the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U231	Good President of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Allow me to introduce you at first reading the draft law amending the law implementing the Code of Criminal Procedure 776. The Government of the Republic has forwarded this draft to the Riigikogu, which aims to establish a control system for not informing persons about a surveillance operation carried out under a surveillance permit that ended before 1 January 2013 and to eliminate a situation which is incompatible with the Constitution in which there is no effective control system for not informing persons about surveillance activities carried out between 1 July 2004 and 31 December 2012. The reason for the amendment is the judgment of the Supreme Court of 20 March last year, which declared § 251 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure to be unconstitutional and invalid in so far as it does not provide for an effective verification system for the continued justification of the failure to notify a surveillance act carried out on the basis of a surveillance permit that ended before 1 January 2013. The system of control that is to be set up provides that judicial review is to be carried out without notification of surveillance operations carried out in 2004-2012, which have been carried out with the permission of the court, since these surveillance activities are the most detrimental to the fundamental rights of persons. Since surveillance is a very intensive violation of rights, the main purpose of the information is to ensure that a person has the right to appeal before a court for permission to pursue surveillance activities. According to the draft law, failure to notify surveillance activities will be subject to judicial review if it has not already been brought before a court in the context of a criminal case. Once the criminal case has been brought before the court, the court has been able to check the pursuits and the persons have already learned about the pursuits in the course of the proceedings. It is therefore necessary for the surveillance authorities to assess the justification for not reporting the surveillance activities carried out between 1 July 2004 and the end of 2012. The persons against whom surveillance operations have been carried out may not be notified unless the court has given its permission. This commitment will leave a total of three years due to the resource intensity of the task. Between 2004 and 2012, around 12000 surveillance files were opened, most of which related to telephone call distinction operations. Due to the large volume of work, the draft provides that the verification of the justification for not notifying the surveillance activities carried out during this period must be completed by the end of 2018. The law is designed to enter into force in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U232	Minister, questions. Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U233	Thank you! Can you briefly summarise, Minister, which argument did the Supreme Court support in declaring this situation to be contrary to the Constitution? To what extent do you consider the administrative burden involved to be proportionate to the objective pursued?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U234	Let's get to the back. The administrative burden is indeed high. But let's do the math. We will remove from the 12,000 surveillance files those that have reached the court, in addition, we will take out surveillance activities that were not carried out with the permission of the court, such as phone records that were made with the permission of the prosecutor's office and which are now not at all surveillance activities, and covert observations, which were also carried out with the permission of the prosecutor's office. It is estimated that this figure is around 1400. But now it's based on 12,000 files. If this law enters into force, experts estimate that this figure may decrease to 1400. This administrative burden of about one dossier per day is pretty high. The amount that we have now calculated for the additional costs is EUR 120000. When it comes to the Supreme Court's decision, the Supreme Court, I think, based most on the fact that, first of all, paragraphs 26 and 43 of the Constitution are those of the Constitution, unless I am mistaken, which contradicts those most seriously affected procedural procedures. People must be given the opportunity to defend their rights and this possibility should also be created for an earlier period. Why did we base the year 2003? Then the new version of the Code of Criminal Procedure came into force and basically the Surveillance Act became a part of it. That is why this year has been taken as a basis. While the previous Implementing Act imposed an obligation to review these matters from 2012 onwards, the Supreme Court considers that this should take place in the longer term, on the same grounds that the person must have the opportunity to appeal later in the judgment which gave him the opportunity to pursue him.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U235	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U236	Thank you! Mr. Minister! Did you consider leaving this backward part of time "dispositive" so that whoever has doubts would turn to the law enforcement authority and then be informed? From now on, if this is a problem based on the judgment of the Supreme Court, the so-called automatic notification procedure could be implemented. We are not going to undo what has been done, but we would avoid an enormous administrative burden as well as costs, labour costs, information costs, etc. In my opinion, these things are not very well proportional.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U237	Thank you. Surely it would be such a dispositive approach that a person himself wonders whether he or she has been subjected to surveillance activities, and may then lodge a complaint, cheaper. However, the consultations during the proceedings and the exchange of comments with the Supreme Court and the Chancellor of Justice have given rise to the opinion that these disputes may even continue. If you look at the table of comments and suggestions, it turns out that the Supreme Court considers even this solution today too little of such a compromise. He would be happy to see that, for example, surveillance activities carried out with the permission of the court, i.e. with the permission of the prosecutor's office, should be reviewed, until it is clear that surveillance activities that have been found to be effective in criminal matters should also be reviewed. Their view has been that the current change may be limited. This bill has been born over several long periods of coordination. Several specialists have been spoken to. There has also been a contribution from the prosecutor's office, which has assessed the minimum burden that our law enforcement authorities can bear in such a way as not to interfere with their daily work.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U238	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Mr Kalle Jents, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair, please report!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U239	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft on 12 January and decided to put it on the plenary agenda by 21 January (this decision was taken by consensus). It was proposed that the first reading be closed (by 4, 1 against, 1 abstention) and that the deadline for the submission of amendments be set at 26 January (by 4 and 2 against, with no abstentions). Mr Kalle Jents was appointed rapporteur. We also had a serious discussion on this issue, which the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has now raised in the Chamber, whether this amendment is feasible. In addition, we discussed what could possibly be caused in society if people found out that they had been eavesdropped years ago. But we were based on the fact that if the Supreme Court has made such a decision, after all, the Chancellor of Justice turned to the Supreme Court, then we must support this bill. A similar discussion was held in the Commission about a year and a half ago when a new notification procedure came into force from 1 January 2013. Before that, we remembered amendments to the laws, which tightened up all surveillance activities and also introduced effective controls on notification. Then there was also exactly the question of whether it would make sense to review the old files afterwards. But if the Honorable Supreme Court found this to be the case, then we must do so. The Commission therefore supported the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U240	Good waitress, thank you! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 776 amendments. a 26 January at 13 a.m. The first reading is closed and the 12th item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U241	Let's move on to item 13. The first reading of the draft Act amending the Prisoning Act and the Penal Care Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U242	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has forwarded to the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Prisoning Act and the Criminal Care Act. The amendments to both laws stem from the creation of a new joint database on detainees, arrests, arrests and probationers. According to the current law, there are two separate databases: one for detainees, arrests and arrests, and the other for probationers. The main effect of the legislative amendment is to simplify and improve the efficiency of the work of prison service officials, and it serves the purpose of improving the security of the prison. In 2008, probation and prisons were merged into a single system, as this is a common process of execution of the sentence. Since the activities in both probation and prison are much similar, such as risk assessment, preparations were also made for the creation of a common database and information system after the merger. This information system is now technically complete and therefore regulatory powers are needed to reflect the content of the integrated information system. From now on, all data relating to the execution of the sentence will be in a single database, whether the person has been sentenced to imprisonment, has been sentenced to probation, has been sentenced to arrest or is awaiting remand. In addition, the draft amends the deletion of disciplinary sanctions. The purpose of this amendment is to establish an independent period of extinction for each disciplinary infringement in prison. It harmonises the regulation on the execution of imprisonment with the regulation on the deletion of penalties for offences imposed by the Penal Register Act. The amendments to the Penal Register Act were adopted in the Riigikogu in July of last year. As a result of the amendment, each disciplinary penalty would have an independent limitation period, and the imposition of a new disciplinary penalty would no longer affect the expiry of the prior penalty. The amendment aims to put an end to a situation where disciplinary action may continue for several years after the disciplinary action has been committed and the disciplinary action has been committed. The new regulation is therefore more proportionate, helps to reduce stigmatisation and allows a person who has served disciplinary sanctions to be better rehabilitated. The Act is scheduled to enter into force on 1 June 2015. This deadline is largely linked to IT improvements. The draft also envisages two exceptions to the tracking procedure data, as they are intended to be integrated into a single database in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U243	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee Neeme Suur!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U244	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U245	Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U246	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Prisoning Act and the Criminal Care Act on Monday, 12 January 2015. Ken-Marti Vaher, Peeter Võsa and Valdo Randpere were absent from the debate. Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice, Kristen Kanarik, Adviser to the Minister, and Heili Sepp, Head of the Criminal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, and Anne Kruusement, Minister of Justice were invited. The Minister briefed the Commission on the draft law amending the Prisoning Act and the Penal Code and explained the facts relating to the law, which you have heard from the Minister's report today. There was a debate. There were two questions under discussion. First of all, the fact that the common register that is being created is quite extensive and that its content is stated in the law, there is quite a long list of different aspects. The question arose as to whether such lists of the contents of the register should be in law or could be in some kind of sub-act, to be decided at the level of the Government of the Republic or even at the level of the Minister. We have received the answer that the data collected is largely personal data and the collection of personal data must be determined by law. The second question that arose was about the amount of data. Since this is a pretty large database, they asked if so much data was needed. In response, we have received that this data is still being collected and that it is really necessary to have an overview of both the imprisoned and the persons under probation. The total amount of data will not change, the databases will simply be connected. Procedural decisions were adopted: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 21 January 2015, to propose that the first reading be closed, to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 13:00 on 26 January 2015 and to appoint Neeme Suur as rapporteur. All the decisions were consensual.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U247	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No, I don't. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline of 26 January at 13:00 for the submission of draft 804 amendments. The first reading is closed and the 13th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U248	Let's move on to item 14. The first reading of the draft Law amending the State Secrets and the Law on classified foreign information initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask the Minister of Justice, Andres Anvelt, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U249	Good President of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will forward to the Riigikogu a draft law amending the State Secrets and the Secret Foreign Information Act. The draft provides for a number of changes. Firstly, state secrets are defined as information that threatens the security of the State's Information System Authority and its analysis. Secondly, the draft provides for the obligation for a person entitled to access state secrets to inform the employer of his stay abroad where there is a risk of unlawful access to state secrets. In addition, the draft also introduces a new wording to the mandate rule allowing classified information to be processed outside the secure area. Now I'll tell you in more detail. Information about the surveillance, alarm, communication and information systems of the State Information System Agency and the risk assessments, monitoring information and information collected during the surveillance activities of the State Information System Agency on the critical vulnerability of the information systems of constitutional institutions, government agencies, institutions they manage, critical service providers and international organisations based in Estonia. Protecting this information as a state secret is certainly necessary in order to prevent it from falling into the hands of persons or institutions who could use it to attack information systems essential to the functioning of the state, which would enable the vital services essential to the functioning of the Estonian state to be paralysed and the functioning of constitutional institutions to be paralysed. The draft requires officials and employees with access to state secrets to inform the employer or authority of their stay abroad and take into account the recommendations and instructions of the employer, authority or security inspection authority. For example, a person can be offered to refrain from travelling abroad or travelling to a region if this could pose a significant risk to a person. The guide may also include a recommendation to refrain from communicating with a person or a recommendation not to share information about travel through social media. By doing so, we will already be able to proactively protect a person with access to state secrets from hidden or public attacks that may be committed abroad. It is important to note that persons are not prohibited from travelling abroad, but are recommended in a particular case to cancel or postpone the trip. If a person deliberately ignores such a guideline, it is possible to withdraw the authorisation of a state secret. A number of possibilities for the withdrawal of an authorisation are also available in the current law. For example, a permit can be revoked if a person has become a gambling addict or has been longer abroad in unknown circumstances. Whether and under what conditions the revocation of the right of access gives rise to disciplinary liability, dismissal or termination of employment shall be decided on the basis and in accordance with the procedures laid down in the laws governing the public service and employment relationship. Foreign countries subject to the obligation to notify shall be decided by the Minister of the Interior or, under his authority, by the Defence Police Department. The purpose of informing certain foreign travel is to establish a preventive mechanism to prevent officials accessing state secrets from becoming victims of abuses abroad. The last significant change concerns the processing of state secrets outside the secure area. In the current security situation, it should be taken into account that rapid processing of state secrets for time-critical decision-making outside the safe area may be indispensable in practice. As a result, the terms of reference under which such processing is regulated by the Government have been specified. The provisions of the Regulation will be developed separately after the draft procedure. The amendments are planned to enter into force in general terms, i.e. 10 days after publication in the Official Journal of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U250	Minister, thank you. Rein Lang, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, would like to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U251	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen Neeme Suur and Tatiana Jaanson and Commission official Kristo! I have the honour to tell you what was going on in the committee during the debate on this draft. It makes no sense for me to repeat what the Minister said, because he spoke in committee exactly as he did today. One important question was discussed in the Commission: who are the persons specifically affected by this draft? This question was raised by the speaker here in the Commission, asking whether it also concerns persons entitled to access state secrets who have been granted this right on a one-off basis. In addition, Eerik Heldna, Deputy Director of the Defence Police Department, replied that the draft had been drawn up in particular with regard to persons who have a permanent right of access to state secrets. That is what the Commission was discussing and was the most important subject of the Commission's discussion. Should all persons who have the right of access to state secrets inform their employer that they intend to travel to a country that is included in a list drawn up either by the Ministry of the Interior or by the Defence Police at the time of their delegation, or is this circle of persons in any way restricted? This question remained open in the Commission. It was decided to come back to this during the preparation of the second reading. That's actually the end of the substantive debate. Procedural decisions are very simple. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 21 January 2015 (consensual decision). That's what happened. Secondly, it was proposed that the first reading be closed (this decision was also consensual). It was also decided to propose a deadline of 26 January 2015 at 10 a.m. on the following Monday at 10 a.m. So if the honourable delegates Neeme Suur and Tatiana Jaanson want to make amendments, you know that the deadline is Monday morning. Another decision that found consensus support was that we decided to appoint Rein Lang, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-21_U252	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 822 at 10 a.m. on 26 January. The first reading is closed and the 14th item is also closed. We are not going to the 15th item, because there is no item. Good fellows, thank you. Today's trial is over. Good luck in our work! Closure of the sitting at 6.28 p.m.
