ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-31_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! [[In the diner.]] Honourable! Honourable members of the Riigikogu, you've been working for the second day, but you're humming like you've been coming here for four years. Today we have the right and duty to hear the oath of Chancellor Ülle Madis.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-31_U2	Please, Chancellor Ülle Madise!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-31_U3	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Vow. I pledge to remain loyal to the people of Estonia, the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order, and in accordance with my conscience, in accordance with the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Estonia, to perform impartially all the duties for which I am obliged by the Office. Thank you! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-31_U4	Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-31_U5	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As the committees are still at work in the first few weeks, it is quite appropriate to hand over the first drafts that can start working peacefully immediately. I will hand over to the new Riigikogu the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act and the Vocational Training Institution Act. This reminds us of what was not completed by the previous Riigikogu. The school lunch allowance remained for 78 cents, but it would be important to raise it to one euro, because it is not possible to offer a decent warm school lunch for 78 cents for many years. Since negotiations are still under way, how and what the next coalition could do, it is good to give you an immediate draft on the basis of which you can also calculate the financial base in the negotiations. There's a proper calculation of how much to what degree it's going to be, what it's going to cost. And you'll find out that just 6 million euros is needed for all children to have a one-euro lunch. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-31_U6	Thank you. There are no other applications. If the draft complies with the requirements of the Rules of Procedure and Home Regulations Act, he or she shall proceed to the proceedings. I understand Igor Gräzin has a procedural question, but then you could press the "Word" button. Very good, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-31_U7	It's the first time I've ever been in this chair. I have a procedural question concerning the Riigikogu as a whole. Yesterday, the old people took an oath, which means they weren't ambassadors before that oath. This raises the question of the integrity of the ambassador, as it is known that there is currently a criminal case involving our colleagues, Toobal and Laas, in the Court of Second Instance. Now it's a question. In the meantime, their immunity was interrupted. It is feared that the Tallinn Circuit Court will be able to make a decision in the near future, and the decision is known to be a procedural act that the immunity of the ambassador does not allow. In short, the integrity of the ambassador has been interrupted and restored. What happens next? We can't call the court, but we can keep on watching a procedural mistake happen, and we can't. Question: what do we do?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-31_U8	The next procedural question is asked by Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-31_U9	I understand, Mr President, that you are not going to answer Mr Gräzin. But then I have a question. Please comment on whether there is anything in common with our current rules of procedure on this subject. If it is, then what, and if it isn't, why did you let Igor Gräzini talk for so long on some rather random subject? Can anyone do that or only the chosen one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-31_U10	Thank you. And now, please, let's do the presence check! There are 97 members of the Riigikogu, missing 4. The board will not be able to offer you any more discussions by this day. Good luck! I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 10.07 a.m.
