ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U1	Let us move quickly on to the 14th question so that we can finally have time for a free microphone. 14. The inquiry is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Jüri Ratas, Mailis Reps, Toomas Vitsut, Mikhail Korbi, Siret Kotka, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta, Priit Toobali, Jaanus Karilaadi, Erki Savisaare, Martin Repinski, Olga Ivanova, Rein Ratas, Tarmo Tamme, Enn Eesmaa, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Andrei Novikov and Kadri Simson concerning the reform of the local government. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Jaanus Karilaidi!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U2	The inquiry has been handed over on 10 June 2015 to Arto Aasa, Minister of Public Administration, and concerns the reform of the municipality. In the interests of intellectual property, I must say that the author of this inquiry is Jüri Ratas, who unfortunately cannot be here today. We have four very specific questions, but there is one very vivid sentence in the introductory text, the quote of which is enough to talk about the nature of the matter. Jüri Ratas, in turn, quotes the Executive Director of the Association of Estonian Cities here, who says that during the crisis, the heads of local governments were flooded and, despite the end of the crisis, they are still being held underwater. Very good! Then answer the questions and read them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U3	Thank you. Please answer the question of the Minister of State Administration Arto Asa!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U4	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's keep going. The question is this: 'What approximate number of local governments will remain in Estonia after the administrative reform promised by the Triple Association? Is it 50, 100, 150 or more? ' I hope that my previous answers already gave more or less an idea of what this reform would be like. The number of municipalities is determined by which criteria are set, how high we raise the bar. But I believe that the name of the reform deserves this story if we still have less than 100 municipalities. The second question: 'When will the government coalition restore the municipal income base and local road funding to pre-crisis levels, and in what form and to what extent will the revenue that has not been received by the municipalities in the intervening years be compensated? ' The total revenue of the 2014 local government budget exceeded and significantly exceeded the peak year of the economic boom, the 2008 level. Between 2015 and 2020 local authorities will receive additional EU Structural Funds grants of around EUR 900 million. The coalition agreement aims to increase road maintenance support and introduce a measure to support recreational activities. Strengthening local government budgets does not necessarily have to be done by increasing the share of income tax or tea money; there are other possibilities. As the financial opportunities of less well-off municipalities are lagging behind those of the non-recipients of the Equalisation Fund, it is more reasonable to increase the income base through the Equalisation Fund. The government and coalition partners have discussed that if we have the opportunity to give more money to local governments, it would rather be through the Equalisation Fund. This objective has been highlighted in the additions to the Coalition Agreement and these options will be reviewed in the preparation of the state budget strategy. During the economic boom, the State had the opportunity to increase the income tax share of the municipalities, the equalisation fund and the road maintenance allowance. I'm telling you, it was during the economic boom. In 2009, cuts had to be made in all sectors to ensure the country's financial sustainability. The European Government Charter says that local government funds must be in line with national economic policies. It is certainly possible to return to the percentage of income tax when the country's finances improve. What I want to say right now is that I understand why the opposition keeps reminding me of this percentage of income tax. However, if, for example, we look at the same 11,6 that is currently in force, this was also in force in 2005, ten years ago, but at that time a financial amount of EUR 406 million was received, and now the exact same percentage point of EUR 878 million is received. I believe that, in fact, the mayors are still interested in money and the money comes more than twice as much as the same percentage. And also from the booming level where the percentage was 11.9, the current level is already EUR 144 million in financial terms. It's not going so bad in that sense. The third question: 'What additional measures is the government coalition planning to implement to increase the financial autonomy of local authorities? ' Some simple things. Firstly, in the course of the administrative reform, the formula for the distribution of the equalisation fund will be reviewed with a view to reducing its demotivating impact on job creation and tax revenue growth. Secondly, it is considered necessary to increase the total amount of the Equalisation Fund. Thirdly, to analyse the possibilities of increasing the financial autonomy of local authorities by extending the right to impose local taxes. It also analyses how to reduce the ad hoc nature of subsidies granted from the state budget to municipalities and, where possible, to increase support resources to the local government's income tax share and equalisation fund. Consideration will be given to linking the revenue of local governments with the jobs in the territory to motivate them to engage more in the business environment. The share of income tax that has been reallocated would correspond to the additional burden associated with the development of the business environment. Detailed amendments are also discussed by members of the government, the panel of experts, as well as by different administrative areas. Question 4: How does the government coalition plan to reduce regional disparities and the resulting marginalisation through various regional, social and economic policies? " Now comes a very long answer, prepare the spirit. There are a lot of concrete plans and options. For example, Estonia's regional development strategy for 2014 has contributed to reducing regional disparities and curbing peripheralisation by national regional programmes, the implementation plan for cohesion policy funds and the rural development plan. I'm gonna skip the eloquence. Let's go to specific examples. For example, the actions of the European Union's Structural and Investment Funds (ESIF) for the next or now starting period. The lifelong learning strategy to clean up the network of core schools of local government Development of support infrastructure for entrepreneurship and tourism outside the city area of Tallinn and Tartu The budget of the measure is 109 million euros. Leader, which also aims at a balanced development of rural areas, with a budget of €90 million. A measure to diversify economic activities, job creation, promotion of rural entrepreneurship, etc. €57 million budget. The introduction of modern and innovative educational assets was a total budget of €40 million. Development of public transport and light traffic routes outside urban areas €25 million. Consulting entrepreneurship through county development centres - a budget of EUR 15,5 million. Ida-Viru County underutilised urban areas re-launching the budget of EUR 15 million. The development of region-specific resources, regional competence centres such as Kuressaare competence centre for small ship construction, or Kohtla-Järvel oil shale's own budget of 14 million euros. The start-up grant of €8.1 million. Regional initiatives to promote employment and entrepreneurship - €7.5 million in the budget. A programme to reduce employment, regional disparities and marginal unemployment. There's no budget, I'm sorry, but there's a program. There's gotta be money, or no one's gonna write the program. Some examples include purely national budget programmes in this year's budget. Construction of high-speed roads outside five major urban areas with a budget of 5.8 million. Small-scale investments for children, young people, families, the elderly and people with disabilities - a budget of 2.8 million. Small-scale investment for service start-up at service points of the budget of 400000. The small islands programme, the budget of 640000. Disappearance program. As a member of the Riigikogu, there was no idea that such programmes existed, but there is also a dispersal programme that supports investments by permanent residents of scattered areas to improve household, water and sewerage systems, access routes and autonomous electricity systems. Its budget is one-and-a-half million euros a year, and half of the money goes to local authorities. Very good program. Small grants to strengthen community initiative and cooperation, a budget of 1.2 million per year. So these programmes and funds are very large, both from the Estonian state budget and from European funds. I have also seen analyses of past periods of regional distribution of state resources. And actually, from a regional political point of view, this analysis and the table were delightful. For me, as a politician elected from Tallinn, it may have been saddening, but given the regional aspect, this analysis was delightful. By county and by region it can be said that the funds coming from the state are twice the size of South-East Estonia, more than twice the size of the funds coming from Harjumaa. Let's just say, as a trend, the further away from Tallinn, the more money has gone to regional things. Not a bad picture at all. The place of political choices in terms of limited resources is either to do more, to do less, but it certainly cannot be said that today's government or the previous ones have not had regional policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U5	Thank you. Minister, there are questions for you again. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U6	Thank you. Good Minister, first of all, thank you for giving us such a comprehensive list of programmes. I am particularly pleased with the disunity programme. I would certainly like to measure the effectiveness of this programme in some way to know what its positive effects on our living environment will be. At the same time, I understand your problem that the preparation of this reform is still going over the rocks and stumps. When I listened to Jürgen Ligi's report, I even realized where the problem was buried. Jürgen Ligi still sees the municipalities as a problem rather than a question of money. He also took a very condescending view of the Supreme Court ruling, which was adopted in 2010 at the Supreme Court College. What is your attitude, have you studied this solution and see some perspective on solving the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U7	Yeah, I'm familiar with that decision. I am also aware that the very detailed implementation of the decision is not easy. In that sense, we all have a place to bet here. If I am not mistaken, the next question will deal with this issue in more detail, and then there will be a slightly more detailed answer, but as far as I know, the state budget law and the state budget have been amended accordingly. However, it should be noted what is the task of local authorities, which is a national task, etc. This regulation has certainly been improved, but it is one thing that is likely to be the subject of an everlasting dispute and where a balance point is constantly being sought. As has been said earlier, I believe that local government leaders always want them to have more financial freedom, more financial opportunities and more decision-making space. It is very human and that is why we are talking about different levels of government and that they need to balance each other, because interests are different. There's no golden solution here. If you look at the past, the state has indeed taken on some tasks or intervened more in the administration of local governments, written more and more in advance and given money with a 'label'. I guess a little bit of trouble starts from there that the capacity and size of local governments are different. For the current system, the size of the municipalities is very different, for example, the difference between Piirissaare and Tallinn is 4,000 times. Of course, then the quality of services and the way in which their work is organised are so different that shortcomings have arisen somewhere, the problem has been resolved at national level and more and more intervened. If we are talking about a vision here, I can see that in the long term the level of local governments will converge, their capacity will increase, and then it will actually be possible to trust more local governments and give them more freedom of decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U8	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U9	Thank you. It was very interesting to juggle with numbers, when you talked about the income tax share to the municipalities, compared the ten-year period and talked about absolute figures. You said the situation wasn't so bad that the amount of money going to the municipalities had doubled. However, you excluded one important variable from this simple mathematics, namely the price increase, which has been 37.2% during this period. So if you put it there, the situation is definitely not so rosy. The question, however, concerns the role of rural governments, as well as rural elders, in the context of administrative reform. In the first half of this day, the Prime Minister said that we will be able to deal with this later, but I think that you, as minister in this field, have certainly had time to think about it. If some of the land government's tasks are assigned to local governments, local governments, what role will be left to rural governments and rural elders at all. Will they remain county-based, and what assignments could they have?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U10	Thank you. In this sense, the Prime Minister was precise that, according to the timetable, we now have a basic agreement on the criteria for carrying out the reform, and in the main focus these are very small and local authorities with problems of coping. The restructuring of rural government work is easier, it is public authorities and their work can be restructured faster and more painfully in this sense. I do not agree with these articles and statements, I do not know whether there are those in this hall who say so, that there is no need for rural governments at all. Stories like this have appeared. Yes, the role of rural governments has changed over time, as we all know, but to say that, for example, the Harju County Government (the county where 600,000 inhabitants live), which supervises its municipalities, is pointless, and all these people there are some kind of placewarmers, I think, too much. This is not the case, and coordination at some regional level and national supervision will in any case remain. It is true that some of the county elders, I am not going to name names, have proposed that perhaps 15 rural governments are not needed. Even if we keep the names of the county, we keep them on the map, the county governments can be merged as institutions in the counties. Maybe that's what's gonna happen someday, but it hasn't been decided yet. Of course, things have happened over time. There are areas where rural governments are more likely to take away functions, i.e. what was previously done in rural governments is now being done in their regional units. This picture is really written. The location of Estonian state institutions over a small Estonia is very different at all. If there have been calls to move one state institution to each county here, the achievement of this great goal is very simple: a rapid analysis showed that on average there are about 30 to 40 state institutions in each county of Estonia. We can argue what exactly is a public authority. The county government itself is already a state institution. What about schools, inspections, etc.? Almost 50 state institutions can be counted in Tartu County. The picture's really good. This requires more deepening in order to create a more comprehensive logic. Why is it that the Tax and Customs Board has no regional regions at all, some have four regions, some have a region by county? Indeed, if you put them all in layers on a map, it's kind of a patch deck that doesn't really understand. I hope that, according to the work programme, in spring next year, in May, we will be able to reach the point where, at least, we have a picture ahead of us and some proposals on how to harmonise this state of affairs. I think that, by next summer at the latest, the issue of rural governments, the restructuring of rural government work, can be decided more precisely.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U11	Thank you. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! It seems that you really want to do the best and most effective job with all your heart. However, when it became apparent that opposition parties were not involved in the development of the concept of administrative reform, the Central Party Municipal Council organised six seminars. We visited all counties and involved nearly 700 people at our events. The latter was just at the end of last week in Kuressaare, where more than 120 people were present. These seminars revealed very serious concerns. A four - year agreement will be concluded, and after that it will no longer have to abide by it. Schools, kindergartens, clubs have been closed in the accession municipalities. How, and with what means, do you think it would be possible to prevent such activities from taking place and to avoid further marginalisation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U13	Thank you. As far as accession agreements are concerned, I have indeed heard that this is one of the fears or risks. Let's think about how to solve this problem. One practical suggestion has been to set a very high bar for the council on how to change the accession agreement. For example, that at least two thirds of the members of the council must accept the amendment. It takes the bar pretty high, it can't be thrown into the corner in a real hurry once the new council has been elected. If there's any other ideas, we'll discuss it. Indeed, that has been one question. On the basis of our analysis, I have also asked lawyers to consider how to give stronger legal content to the accession agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U14	Thank you. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U15	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, You've brought up so many great parallels that I've started to develop a few. It can be said that some proportions have been drastic in previous history. Once in the 19th century, the wages of the parish elders differed 240 times in Pärnumaa. True, it was the people of Kihnu who refused to pay their parish elder more than one ruble. But my question is about today. One beautiful principle says that the local government must be provided with an adequate income base independent of the central authority for the performance of its tasks. How far is Estonia from this, or how could such a principle suit us?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U16	Yeah, that's the point of assessment. It certainly seems to politicians that we do not have a problem with that. But I say, aside from the fine-laws, that one of the key ideas of administrative reform and the wisdom of analysis is that if the size of a municipality is below some critical limit, it is purely objectively very difficult for it to cope. We're gonna find this border and see what's right. As regards the focus of this inquiry, the percentage of income tax, I think that qualitatively nothing is going for the better if it comes to 11.9% in the area of 200 or 300 inhabitants. These are a few thousands of euros, a little more, but this does not lead to another qualitative level in the municipality of Piirissaare or in the municipality of Nõva. True, joining may also have a small effect, but we should somehow combine these things and make sure we do one thing and another. entangle only the tax percentage is not as practical, it does not lead us forward. There's been so much talk about it. If Mr Toobal said that the price increase has been 37%, then the increase has also been over 100%. So it's not really that bad. I am convinced that, as has been the case in recent years, in the budget for next year, the sums of money go to local governments more quickly than the state budget itself. These figures, of course, still specify. This difference is not very big, as far as I am aware, the sums going to local governments have increased by around 4.4% and the state budget itself by around 3%. This proportion for local authorities will certainly not deteriorate. Income tax is now coming in quite nicely, other things, euro money, etc. The picture's not that bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U17	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In the meantime, in the context of the administrative reform, local governments were also briefly spoken of. I think we all know in this Chamber, and you also know that the biggest problem with the heads of the country is, however, politicisation, i.e. sharing places according to the right party membership. There are a number of examples of life itself, and I can bring them out personally. That is why I am asking with regard to administrative reform: do you see that the issue of party membership in the appointment of land managers is a problem? Should this attitude be changed and how should it be ensured that party membership is not decisive in choosing the right person?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U19	Thank you. A good question in the sense that if in the future we rethink the role of a governor of the country, we should think about what this level of political decision is. If they simply become head of the department of the Minister of Public Administration or the Ministry of Finance, they will be singled out by the Minister. I am not sure that this will necessarily provide a more apolitical system than is the case now, where, in fact, without lying, a certain political balance is sought in the coalition. I do not think there is any point in putting politicians down in this Chamber as a whole. I believe that we are quite normal people and that we want good for Estonia. And that's why I don't think a politician as a country leader is necessarily the wrong choice of a priori. I do agree with the fact that the county government and its administration must not be politicised. That's the thing that's a taboo for me, that's a lie. We probably have some bad examples of that, but that's something we should avoid. Then let the mayor be a former or future politician, but at least the department must carry out its duties independently and in the interests of the county. This is generally the case, according to the knowledge gained in its current profession. County governments may have many pros and cons, but that's not the main thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U20	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U21	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Have you and your team discussed the establishment of a local government tax system? After all, this system is actually not working, and there is nothing local authorities can do to improve their budget, say, not through the state, but through their work.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U22	Thank you. Yes, we also have these proposals on the table in the Committee of Experts. A comma two sounded here today in Jürgen Ligi's speech on land tax issues and whether the rate of land tax, its exemptions and exemptions would logically be more of a local government's own line. There's been a few more thoughts. One has been a congestion tax, which concerns the city of Tallinn in particular and which may not have a wider impact. The second idea, for which I have been given a lot of unseries in this hall, was a tourism tax, the idea of which has actually grown out on the ground, it is not my idea. A pillow tax or a tourist tax or a city tax, whatever we call it. Today, I heard from the Leader of the Cities Union, Mr Powerfully, that the Cities Union considers this an important and necessary idea. This has been one of the most concrete ideas on how to give local authorities more freedom of decision. Our rapid and brief analysis of the tourism tax says that it does not have a large-scale national impact. There may be five or six municipalities in Estonia, where the tourism tax would also have a 'fiscal' idea. Surprisingly, they are even more small municipalities with large tourist companies such as Toila and Värska. Even in the case of Tallinn and Pärnu, it would not be so high in revenue from the tourism tax. Depends, of course, on where the municipality wants to raise this tourism tax. A quick analysis was that 1 euro a night or something. In that case, the effect would not be too great. But it's a decision-making place. What is strange is that the local government leaders often say themselves that we are expanding these possibilities, that there should be more tools in the toolbox, but if you ask for concrete ideas, you have to admit that there are not too many of these ideas. If the political groups in this Chamber have any ideas on what to do, I am happy to listen.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U23	Thank you, Minister. No more questions for you right now. Members of the Riigikogu wish to start negotiations. Please, my colleague Jaanus Karilaid!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U24	Thank you to all listeners! I would like to congratulate the Minister for Public Administration, at least, for having a very positive attitude. Looks like you really want to take the municipalities as a partner. Whether it's a mission or some other motive, it's time. I hope that the mission is still behind it, not some narrower political interest. I would also give my input or say what I expect from now on. In your presentation, you never mentioned the European Charter of Local Government. The lecturer at the Technical University Sulev Mäeltseman has been talking for many years about how we have moved away from the principles of the Charter, the principles of subsidiarity and subsidiarity. There are also very clear reasons for this. Public power has been more centralized year after year. When we look at local government power in really different areas, it is actually very low. I look forward to hearing from your expert group, where you have said you have put our best minds together, the answer to the future role of the municipality in labour market policy, whether its role in health matters will remain nonexistent, or whether it will be possible to talk about how things are with public transport. In the meantime, in Läänemaa we tried to engage in public transport matters, but we ran into various contracts and political prohibitions of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Road Administration and the County Government. You also talked about what regional policy measures could be to increase the vitality of the outside golden circle. After all, this has been repeatedly discussed in this Chamber, these are tax distinctions. If we are talking about too much capital concentrated in Tallinn and it requires some sort of decoy to attract it to the periphery, then this decoy is tax distinctions. But I'm saying that your performance and Jürgen Ligi's performance are completely different from the world. I have to talk about Jürgen Ligi because he is the Minister of the Government of the Republic, and you must undoubtedly also get his approval of your reform plans. His answers suggest that the local government is still rather an obstacle, rather a problem that he should not ask for money but find money somewhere. And the constant emphasis that you want to increase the fine-tuning fund shows that you still do not want to increase financial autonomy, because the fine-tuning fund actually means more dependence on the central government. These are such brief remarks on your reform. I wish you luck and strength!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U25	Thank you. Priit Toobal, are you talking about this? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not take any less note of the question raised by Mr Herkel in an earlier question on the same subject. His comment concerned the concentration of power in the merging municipalities. I have a suggestion. At its last meeting, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs set up a working group which will also deal with elections. It is clear that when local authorities join, the electoral arrangements need to be changed. If the Local Government Council Election Act currently provides an opportunity to form districts within the borders of former municipalities by conducting elections in the merging municipality during the first period, then I think that in the first or second period there could be no right, but an obligation to form electoral districts in the old municipalities. If determined as an obligation, power would not be concentrated in the center as much as without the formation of these circles.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U27	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm going to finish my 14th questioning.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U28	We will go to the 15th question: the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Aadu Musta, Priit Toobali, Erki Savisaare, Rein Ratas, Tarmo Tamme, Enn Eesmaa, Lauri Laas, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin and Märt Sults concerning public procurement in universities. In the name of the heirs, Professor Aadu Black of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U29	Good lead! Dear Minister, At this late hour or at such a romantic hour, it would be impertinent to start asking some evil questions, picking a fight, or criticizing it, but fortunately I don't have to. I am in a much better position, I can ask you something that the Minister can respond to with optimistic, mood-enhancing and optimism. Minister, you certainly know how the people are cursing bureaucracy, bureaucratic obstacles. It turns out that they are made not only by those who may be called foolish And now we are talking about public procurement, which is sometimes more complicated than very simple laws and regulations. This concerns very specific procurements by universities and research institutions, for example, in the University of Tartu or the University of Tartu Hospital, several lawyers have had to be appointed to make the procurement edible and accommodate it under the points that have been set. But the end result is still the same. Even if the procurement is contested, this scheme, which is the only way to complete the procurement, will win as a result of a long debate. Mr. Minister! There's a lot of talk about you. I can tell you half the secret: in Tartu, the speakers are divided into two. Some say that all these attempts to cut red tape have always come and justified why nothing can be done, even in their own country. What a fault the European Union is, somebody else. And there are others who say that Arto Aas is a wise man, he will do it. I'm one of those optimists, by the way. That's all I'm saying. I will give you an opportunity to talk about how better times will come in public procurement for universities and research institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U30	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to answer the question of the Minister of State Administration Arto Asa!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U31	Honourable guests! I'm a little embarrassed because I have a very long and technical answer. Now, do you read it or make it more humanized according to the time of day? But let's get started. The first question: 'Is the bureaucratic excesses in public procurement due to the regulations introduced by the European Union and whether the countries belonging to the European Union have any levers to influence this legislation and to introduce derogations affecting specific areas of life. If the Republic of Estonia has such opportunities, have they actually been used or tried to use them? ' I am saying very simply that it is quite difficult to find a balance in public procurement and to balance different interests. On the one hand, public procurement may appear to be a formal and cumbersome procedure, but it has a single reason in the public interest: to ensure that public funds are used in a uniform manner, so that the procedure is public, transparent and proportionate, not to mention the sustainable and rational use of money. The functioning of the European Union and the decision-making process should probably be felt by those in this Chamber. The Riigikogu and the European Union Affairs Committee always have the opportunity to have a say in establishing directives. I can assure you from experience that in our positions we have always emphasised that there could be less bureaucracy. We see that rules are often developed on the basis of larger countries and different systems. We are small, we have simple business and we would like the rules of the European Union to be that way. But the functioning of the European Union is one of the great art of finding compromises, and our interests do not always coincide with those of others. However, the Riigikogu will soon have the opportunity to discuss the law on public procurement. We will shortly bring a new version of the Public Procurement Act to the Riigikogu. This need arises from the new public procurement directives of the European Union. Even during the negotiation of directives, all parties were involved, but the law is, of course, more specific. It must be said, however, that the area of public procurement is quite precisely, at times very precisely regulated in European Union law. From the point of view of the European Union, it is essential to ensure an internal market without borders is one of the most important principles of the European Union and to balance the narrow and sometimes protectionist interests of the Member States. Therefore, also in those places where the European Union leaves discretion in its directives, it is often written, between which choices or within which the State can exercise that discretion and make distinctions. However, more specifically, universities can make use of a number of different features of public procurement, both under current law and under the forthcoming draft. For example, to organise negotiated procedures without prior publication of a contract notice for the procurement of items produced solely for the purposes of research, experimentation, study or development, or to order a variety of educational and study-related services under a simplified procedure. It also follows from the Directive and the law that universities are not required to organise public procurement when ordering research and development services, provided that the study does not benefit only the university and the services ordered are not fully remunerated by the university. In addition, the Directives give Member States the right to find a more self-appropriate solution in certain aspects, but, as has been said, such options come from the Directive itself. Thus, the levers of public procurement law available to the Member States are often limited to what the European Union legislator has explicitly envisaged as a choice. The second question: 'How do you assess the proposals put forward by universities to introduce new additional regulations that would help reduce bureaucratic confusion about public procurement? ' More specifically, a binding reference for a preliminary ruling is requested, as well as the possibility of approving a sectoral purchasing guide in the Ministry of Responsibility. While the honourable questioner mentioned that universities had to employ lawyers to chew through all this regulation, last week's meeting with representatives of universities made such statements that they had more than 200 people at work who had to deal with procurement. Indeed, this mass was also surprising to me, and it is certainly very seriously argued problems. What can we say? We can say with certainty that we have been in constant contact with universities, even before this specific draft was dealt with and coordinated, there have been meetings with representatives of universities. I met them again last week, i.e. for the first time in this job. In particular, as regards the binding reference for a preliminary ruling that was asked about, our analysis says that, given Estonia's and the European judicial area, it does not do too much good. As has emerged from the discussion with universities, the need for a preliminary ruling arises in particular from the fact that, from time to time, situations arise in which different authorities interpret the law on public procurement inconsistently. This is particularly the case in the context of the sharing of structural resources. The Ministry of Finance understands this concern, but above all, we see the problem as binding. If, for example, the preliminary ruling were binding only on the Ministry of Finance but not on the implementing entity, it would clearly not help to mitigate the risk of possible recovery. It is important to understand that the Structural Grants Act and the Public Procurement Act are different in nature and are based on different legal frameworks established by the European Union, which is why the Ministry of Finance cannot, when interpreting the Public Procurement Act, give binding decisions to institutions controlling the use of structural resources. It is likely that the introduction of the possibility to apply for a preliminary ruling would not have a significant impact on the volume of challenge to public procurement, since an exequatur binding by the executive would not be able to deprive a person of the right to effective redress in the public procurement appeal committee or court. The current view is that the preliminary ruling procedure would not help universities much closer to their objective. At the same time, we are ready to offer all the help we can in minimising the interpretations of the Public Procurement Act. It is planned to continue looking for solutions in the interaction between structural support institutions and universities. The Ministry of Finance will also continue to provide free advice on public procurement within the framework of the new law, as well as providing for the possibility that contracting authorities can request the Ministry of Finance to coordinate their procurement procedures, which should facilitate the conduct of public procurement and increase legal certainty. So we offer some solutions within this new law. The third question: 'What are the prospects for normalising public procurement procedures for structural grants so that the specificities of the services to be procured can be taken into account? " In short, that was the question. In fact, the answer lies in the core of the whole problem: we have two different regulations coming from the European Union. One is about public procurement, and we are changing that procedure, raising the thresholds and trying to cut red tape. The other side is structural instruments; the European Union's money here is another regulation, tougher rules. These are different procedures and are based on different legal frameworks. There is no special procedure for public procurement within the meaning of the Structural Grants Act, and following the transposition of directives, the Public Procurement Act is the first act. The few differences concern only contracting entities, which, as far as I am aware, are of benefit in the case of universities. Moreover, in the absence of regulation under the Public Procurement Act, it is possible to impose obligations on contracting authorities, which are a separate talk, in the terms of granting the aid. But what makes universities the most of their problems is that the Structural Support Act sets a threshold of EUR 5 000. Indeed, EUR 5 000 is very little. In the Public Procurement Act, we will go to higher thresholds in the future. This ceiling of EUR 5000 is set on the basis of the principles of the financial statute applicable to the general budget of the European Union. To sum up briefly, with this work, which is my area of administration and which concerns the procedure and the law for public procurement, we may not have a very big problem. Structural grants, which formally also belong to the field of Minister of Finance Sven Sester and are dealt with by other departments of the Ministry of Finance, are more complex. But I believe that some solutions are possible here, so these regulations should not get in the way of each other. What is the point in one law to set limits if, in the other, they remain exactly the same? So work with universities goes on. We had a meeting where, yes, we really discussed public procurement in particular. As the main problem seems to be in structural support and regulations, we have to do the next meeting, hopefully, now that we have people at the table dealing with structural support problems. Let's see if there's anything going on. I tried to simplify this approach and speak in human language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U32	Thank you. You have at least one question. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U33	Thank you for your moderately optimistic answer! Indeed, we look forward to those changes that should normalise the situation. I also fully recognise this good initiative that there is no point in simply reading the whole text, but that human communication is a value in itself. Here comes my question. Since you summarised the text in a more human language, are you willing to give me the text that I can no longer get from the verbatim?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U34	Yes, I am.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U35	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U36	Let's move on to the next question, that's agenda item 16. The question is about the financial autonomy of the local authorities, submitted on 10 June 2015 and numbered 48. Reply by Arto Aas, Minister of Public Administration. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Kersti Sarapuu, who will introduce the questioning as a representative of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U37	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Indeed, early morning hours have begun, but you are still ready to continue your work. But our inquiry, which was submitted on 10 June, concerns the financial autonomy of the local government. Local authorities do not have sufficient funds to carry out their constitutional or state tasks. The construction and modernisation of kindergartens and schools, the repair of local roads, the salaries of educational and cultural workers, public transport and many other areas require additional funding. Such a situation is condemned by the General Assembly of the Supreme Court Decision No 3-4-1-8-09 of 16 March 2010 declaring it contrary to the Constitution not to give legislative acts such as: 1. to lay down which law the obligations imposed on local government units are self-governing and which state; 2. to distinguish the local government units from the money intended for the decision-making and organisation of local life matters from the state's obligations and to provide for the financing of the state's obligations imposed on local government units by law from the state budget. ' In the coalition agreement, you have promised to lay down the duties of local governments at the level of the Act and regulate the activities of joint local governments so that local governments can ensure the provision of services evenly throughout Estonia. You want to give local authorities that meet the criteria an opportunity to also indicate additional public-funded tasks. In the course of the administrative reform, a new financing model for local authorities is to be developed. In the light of the foregoing, we have asked you questions that I will not read out. You can answer them immediately, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U38	I ask the Riigikogu Chair to answer the question of the Minister of State Administration Arto Asa!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U39	Honourable Riigikogu! The answers to this question are much shorter, and I will read them quickly. The first question: 'How do you intend to comply with the decision of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of 16 March 2010 on the definition and financing of the constitutional duties and other tasks of local governments, including those imposed by state authority? When will the duties of local governments be laid down and specified at law level? " The public tasks carried out by the municipalities are exceptional and the municipality is in the role of the State's so-called extension of arm's length, in compliance with the prescribed guidelines with very little discretion. For such tasks, the state uses the help of local governments because their employees deal directly with people's concerns and have better information about local residents. The money involved in these tasks is 2% of the cost of the municipality's core business. § 51 of the State Budget Act obliges the annual state budget to distinguish the money intended for the performance of public tasks from the money used for local government tasks. The explanatory memorandum to the state budget shall provide information on the amount of resources to be provided to cover the costs of each public task and on the giver. Thus, the funding system provided by the Supreme Court has been established by law. In order to distinguish national tasks from self-governing, the law adds to the task "State task carried out by the own government'. If there is no such indication, it is a self-governing task which is not further marked. National tasks have been defined as the registration of births and deaths, the payment of subsistence allowances and need-based family allowances, and the transport of unknown dead persons to expertise. The review of tasks and the definition of the task as state or self-governance is ongoing. Of course, it should be added that there is probably no universal methodology or formula for determining the adequacy of the income base anywhere in the world. There's always less money than wishes. It can be confirmed that the Ministry of Finance is also analysing the cost side of local tasks during the current reforms. For each task, the Ministry of Finance requires the calculation of the cost and the indication of the sources of cover. The second question: 'Will you and when are you planning to restore the funding base for municipalities (income tax, equalisation fund, road-saving funds, etc.), which was significantly reduced in 2009? " This question has already been answered here. It is not going to be repeated that these funds can come from elsewhere. This coalition considers regional policy more appropriate to increase the fine-tuning fund when this possibility arises. In addition, EUR 900 million of European Union funds have been mentioned. So I believe that whoever listened to the debate earlier received this answer. I can also explain why the coalition has made such a choice that, when money is generated, it is rather preferable to changing the tax rate to the fine-tuning fund. A quick analysis says that if you change the tax rate, more than half of this money goes to Harjumaa. With its golden circle, Tallinn and Harjumaa would receive more than half of this extra money, which is probably not the smartest choice in regional policy. The money from the Equalisation Fund still goes to those who are on the outskirts and who are struggling to cope. The granting of additional funding to Viimsi and Rae rural municipality is unlikely to be critical in terms of limited resources. The third question: 'In the local government's income base, independent income accounts for 1%. Do you think that such a situation is in line with the principles of the European Charter for Local Government regarding the financial autonomy of municipalities? How can independent organisation and decision-making be carried out without an independent income base on issues relating to the local environment, services and well-being, as well as the tasks imposed by the state by law? 'The share of local taxes in the principal income of local governments is indeed 1%. At the same time, according to the methodology widely used for assessing financial autonomy, the land tax is essentially a local tax. The fact that local governments have no right to set the rate of income tax does not in any way limit the autonomy of local governments when using income tax receipts. The municipality's income is targeted at 23% and the remaining 77% of the resources are decided independently by the municipality without State interference. The government coalition is committed to reducing the proportion of targeted support in the future. The European Charter of Local Government does not determine the scope of the financial autonomy of the municipalities; it is a national issue. There are countries where the share of targeted support is higher and there are countries where it is smaller. It is larger in countries such as the Czech Republic, Slovenia and Hungary, and smaller in Finland, Sweden and Norway. As has been said earlier, I personally advocate that if we make our choices and change financing schemes and administrative arrangements, we could move towards increasing the proportion of local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U40	Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U41	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good minister! The proportion of local government taxes is very low today, but, as you said, you have a plan to increase it. There may often be some kind of competition between local authorities, as people start getting fictitious transcripts to get out of some taxes. How can this be avoided in the future, and should it be avoided in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U42	Thank you. You have at least one question. Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U43	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. As head of local government, what you're saying is very sympathetic to me. But I wonder if this coalition agreement, which has been signed, will still give us the opportunity to implement everything you're talking about. I don't think you'll ever come out with what you've been talking about all night and talking nicely about.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U44	Minister, thank you. No further questions. At a late hour of the night, the people's ambassador has a desire to participate in the negotiations. Opening negotiations is the sacred duty of the manager, and that is what I will do. I'm opening negotiations. The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Kersti Sarapuu, please! Eight minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U45	Thank you. To what I've been talking about today, I believe. I represent these positions at government meetings and I hope that you will support me when these issues are decided in this Chamber. I can say so much that there will probably not be an increase in the fine-tuning fund next year. Rather, it has been the view that the fine-tuning fund will increase once the so-called basic decisions on the administrative reform have been taken. Well, it's working, but of course, ambition can be bigger than what can be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U46	Thank you. There's no more calls. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U47	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U48	Thank you. I don't have a good answer for that right now. It's so late, I'm not gonna waste any time talking round. Let's think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U49	No, I will try to do it as soon as possible, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen and good Minister. The recession in 2008-2009 caused huge cuts in the state budget, but the biggest victims were local authorities, especially those who became particularly difficult to take responsibility for organising people's lives. In essence, the income tax share of local governments was cut from 11,93% to 11,4% (almost EUR 30 million) and the amount of the compensatory payment was reduced to nearly EUR 21 million, which amounted to EUR 288.5 million between 2009 and 2014, of which EUR 52.3 million in 2014. Yes, the share of income tax has now been raised to 11.6%, but now this amount also includes land tax, which was a separate item of income before. The local government's income base and the tax system at its disposal do not meet the needs. In 2009, the explanatory memorandum to the cut-off regulation stated that the provision of services would no longer have to continue to date. This meant that the municipality no longer had to support sport and culture and not to build crèches, reduced resources for maintaining local roads, while at the same time knowing that local authorities would not get away with these obligations, because people live on the territory of the municipality and cannot be left in trouble. In this way, the tasks remained, but no funds were left to carry them out. Last week, in response to an inquiry, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar said that in 2014 cities and municipalities supported sport in the amount of EUR 60 million, as well as supporting cultural events, circles of interest, kindergarten places, etc. The task of local authorities was, among other things, to find money for the pay of kindergarten teachers, even though the state's representatives promised local authorities that the state would support the coverage of the pay of kindergarten teachers if this salary was raised to the same level as the minimum wage of school teachers. A year and a half were supported, but then this obligation also remained smoothly in the hands of the municipalities. The volume of funds allocated to local road storage has decreased several times since 2008. The Road Act, adopted in 1990, allowed local and state roads to be treated as a whole. We haven't gotten to that yet. Pending the adoption of the legislative amendment, there was a rule that 75% of the fuel excise duty would be used for road maintenance, on average EUR 300 million per year. There are 58000 kilometres of roads in the country, 23,000 kilometres of them owned by municipalities and 18,000 kilometres of them owned by the state, and 18,000 kilometres are private and forest roads. In recent years, municipalities have received 10% of this allocation and reached the same level in 2014 as before the cut-backs, i.e. EUR 29 million. In comparison, between 2007 and 2008, road maintenance money in some cases amounted to nearly EUR 40 million. Although we have reached the level of the former allocation, we must consider that today the reconstruction of one kilometre has increased four to five times. That's why you can only patch holes, if that's what you can do. In the previous years, municipalities were also able to support the improvement of the business environment, and grants were paid to create businesses and jobs. Today's revenue base makes it possible to cover only the essential costs of organising everyday life, with no resources available for development. We have reached the point that the 2015 budget is running out of resources to support people with disabilities. Where can I get help? Still, people turn their eyes to their city or their parish. We must also note that 1% of tax revenue comes from local taxation to the local government budget, 99% being dependent on national allocations. Local authorities have three real-life taxes: advertising tax, road and street closure tax and parking fee. It can be imposed by large municipalities, the smaller ones simply fail, without harming the interests of the local people and businesses that are still on the ground. I could bring a lot more examples. I want to believe that you are all thinking about the same issues and that you will find a solution to avoid the remoteness of the regions. I believe Arto Aas stands for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. There are municipalities that already wrote a lot of projects during the first period of structural support, and this led to the development of these municipalities. Of course, co-financing had to be covered from own resources, and very often loans were also taken. After a major cut in 2009, the municipal income base decreased. Some municipalities became sinners, or they exceeded 60% by loans. The question now is how these municipalities will be able to use the new Structural Funds. They've been blown out of the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U51	Thank you. Very precise question. Usually, it is the discussion or the search for solutions behind such stumps that gets stuck when we talk about, for example, some options relating to income tax or corporate tax. Since in Estonia, fortunately, all kinds of re-registrations due to the use of IT facilities are so simple, this fear is, yes, that if we give local governments the right to change certain tax rates, then the wealthy Viimsi municipality can take these rates down and get more taxpayers, but some periphery region cannot afford to lower the rates. So the effect is exactly the opposite of what you want. We are also analysing how to motivate the creation of jobs in local governments and how to improve the equations of the Equalisation Fund. Often there is a very high risk that these changes will make the wealthy even more prosperous. The coalition agreement clearly states that we are looking for ways to motivate local authorities to create jobs. It is even possible to draw formulas that take into account how many jobs are created. But the result may be that large cities and county centres are getting stronger. Perhaps, in this context, that there will be an adaptation and a concentration in Tallinn, the strengthening of the county centres is not a very bad solution either. But it doesn't help them the weakest and the smallest. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U52	We are going to the 17th interview by Riigikogu members Jaak Madison, Mart Helme, Martin Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Raivo Põldaru, Henn Põljaas and Arno Sild. The inquiry was submitted on 10 June 2015 concerning the maintenance of institutions financed by the state budget for membership of the European Union and bearing the number 53. This is answered by Arto Aas, Minister of Public Administration. Please contact Jaak Madison, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, who will introduce the inquiry!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U53	Dear Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu, Honourable Members! Dear representative of the Social Democratic Party of the coalition, it is a pleasure! Since a new day has come, let's not be so serious, still almost morning, and soon the sun will dawn. Therefore, we have three specific questions for Mr Asa. Great Britain has calculated the cost of maintaining the bureaucratic machine of the institutions and authorities coming from the European Union. This is, according to the various figures, 5 to 7% of GDP, corresponding to the year and the accounting methodology. We expect every country in the European Union to be aware of how much the state budget and GDP actually takes to keep this bureaucratic machine running. It includes separate agencies, including the secretaries of local governments, who are specifically working on directives and obligations coming from the European Union. So we have three questions. Has an internal audit been carried out to find out how much it takes to maintain the institutions and posts arising from the European Union from the budget of the Estonian state? Is this cost justified and do you see ways of reducing it? If you see these opportunities, which would be very pleasant and positive, then at what cost and to what extent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U54	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair, Minister of State Administration Arto Asa, to answer the question, which bears number 53.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U55	Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! Since you've been so bravely waiting for my answer, I'll report it in full. The first question concerned whether there has been an audit of how much the budget of the Estonian state spends on maintaining the institutions and posts of the European Union. The answer is that no audit has been carried out by the Ministry of Finance or the National Audit Office to give an overview of the costs of all functions related to the European Union. A mere cost-benefit analysis would not ensure a comprehensive view of the benefits of belonging to the European Union or of the efficiency of spending money. It is also difficult to assess which posts are only costing because of membership of the European Union, because we do not have a comparison of the positions that the country should hold if Estonia were not a member of the European Union, but should cooperate with the European Union and its Member States. Since 2005, the effectiveness of the implementation system for structural funds has been assessed, and this cost has been assessed twice by audit and consultancy firms. In 2011, the mid-term evaluation of the structural instruments indicated, inter alia, that the implementation system had spent 2,03 cents on the disbursement of one of the support kroons. The kroons were still in force at the time, but the order of magnitude is reached: it took 2.03 cents for a hundred units. A large part of the resources of the implementation system will be spent on the control of payment applications, the processing of aid applications and the development and modification of support policies and measures. Compared to our closest neighbours Finland, Latvia and Lithuania, the implementation of structural funds in Estonia can be considered effective. Both the volume of support administered and the volume of payments per full-time employee are the largest in Estonia. However, it is always possible to increase efficiency by systematically collecting information on where the resources of the implementation system are spent. As the annual analysis would be too resource-intensive, the studies will be carried out over a few years. In 2010, the Structural Funds administration had a total of 395,6 full-time employees and the implementation of these funds cost 170 million kroons, or 10.86 million euros. The 2010 study did not include costs for PRIA, they are presented separately. The figures for 2015 used in the PRIA are 370 employees and cost EUR 11.5 million. Since Estonia's accession to the European Union, an average of 770 people have worked in the system of application of grants per year and they have spent an average of 20 million euros. This represents a total of €247.8 million for the whole 2004-2015 period. The Ministry of Finance has explained the costs of entities related to the European Union in the areas of government of the Ministries and the costs of staff working in foreign representations of the European Union and their spouses. In addition to the implementation of the structural instruments, there are still some 280 staff members of public institutions who are related to the European Union. It can also be pointed out that 227 staff are employed in the European Union's foreign missions and 124 workers are employed abroad. A total of approximately 415 million euros has been spent in Estonia to support almost 1400 jobs. This expenditure represents 0.2% of GDP. The second question: 'Is this expenditure justified and do you see the possibility of reducing expenditure in this area? ' Compared to the 7% shown in the United Kingdom, Estonia's cost is not high, given the benefits that membership has brought us. We can talk here about the overall increase in the credibility of the economy, the country's credit rating, the free movement of goods and services, the development of the economy, the right of expression in the conduct of monetary policy, the loss of currency risk, lower interest rates, price stability, lower transaction costs, better price comparison and, of course, the positive effects of the use of European funds on competitiveness and balanced development. The third question: 'If you see opportunities to reduce these costs, then at what expense and to what extent? 'The austerity measures for the implementation of future budgetary periods or structural funds for the current period are as follows: The European Commission has taken into account in its assessment of the impact of the cohesion policy drafts for the period 2014 to 2020 that, if a Member State makes use of all the simplifications foreseen for the period under EU rules and to the maximum, the average savings for beneficiaries could be 20% on average and 7% on average for Member State administrations compared to the previous period. This was the European Commission's assessment of how much savings the European Union can make on average. Since Estonia already has optimal systems for applying subsidies, we do not have so much savings to expect, but the system can, of course, be improved and we intend to use all the possibilities to do this more effectively. For example, things that have already been implemented. In the new period 2014-2020, Estonia has one operational programme instead of three. Consequently, one monitoring report must be drawn up instead of the three so far and one assurance of financial management, which will reduce bureaucracy and duplication between ministries. Its financial impact has not yet been calculated, but it is certainly significant. From the beginning of the following year, there must be opportunities for electronic communication between grant applicants and beneficiaries and the administration authorities. Under the possibilities created, a gradual transition to the use of electronic application environments will take place. In the long term, the electronic environment will save staff costs and reduce the burden on beneficiaries both when applying for support and when implementing the process. Of course, in the case of electronic solutions, the costs of ICT should be taken into account. The European Commission has considered that, on average, the introduction of IT solutions in the European Union could save up to 11% of the administrative burden. In Estonia, this percentage is probably lower, as we have already taken certain steps in the field of technology. In addition, the new European rules allow simplified cost reimbursement methods for projects below EUR 50000. The introduction of simplified methods will help to reduce the administrative burden both on the beneficiaries who do not have to provide cost documents and on the administration side, as expenditure documents do not need to be checked. The substantive principle of simplified reimbursement methods is that the grant is not paid on the basis of statements of expenditure but on the basis of the results achieved. The simplified system also allows for the payment of overheads, either as a proportion of staff costs or as a proportion of the total cost of the project, which will significantly reduce the administrative burden. In the new period, the CPR states that projects below a certain threshold (EUR 200000 for the Cohesion Fund, EUR 150000 for the European Social Fund, EUR 100000 for the EMFF) will not be audited at national level more than once during their lifetime. There is a plan to simplify the implementation system by reducing the number of agencies and centralising tasks. For example, in the field of transport, all the functions of the implementing unit were grouped together in the Technical Surveillance Authority and the Road Administration and the Maritime Administration no longer perform these functions of the implementing unit. Now this competence is in one place, which is definitely a place of austerity. Another example: Last September, the implementation unit of the Ministry of Social Affairs was brought to the Ministry of Finance, and again it is no longer necessary to operate in several places. This year, the implementing entities will also be transferred to the Ministry of Finance in the context of the financial instrument measures previously managed by KredEx. So we are looking for ways to cut red tape. Certain rules have been agreed in the European Union as a whole and cannot pass them, but one comma of you can certainly be done better. Even in this picture, Estonia has been very effective, not only on the expenditure side, in the sense of how much it takes us to get one euro, but we are one of the best at all who has used up the funds. If we look at a very big picture, then in the previous period all our costs were EUR 2.3 billion and the European Union became EUR 6.4 billion. Even if we exclude all indirect positive effects, the direct financial report is clearly positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U56	Thank you. You have questions. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U57	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good minister! My question is somewhat broader; it may not be directly relevant to the agencies involved in membership of the European Union. As we know, the government coalition has agreed to reduce the number of officials, in line with the decline in the working age population. Do you know what is the limit of the institutions under your administration, how many officials you will have to lay off next year and the next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U58	Yeah, we do. This order of magnitude, taking into account rural governments and departments of the Ministry of Finance, is about 40 people in total. This is not an easy task, but certainly not impossible, we can do it. We do not just want to reduce the number of people by mechanical means, but we want to review the functions and to take a more substantive approach. We ourselves have prepared these proposals for the government and it would be unspokenly strange if we did not exceed the bar that we have set ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U59	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U60	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Mr. Minister! You said that these things have not been measured, but we can still say that we have benefited. That's a bold statement. The European Union is such a satanic thing that money comes to the state budget and then politicians share it like Santa. But the burdens or costs that arise for the economy will still fall mainly on a private company or local authorities, or also on public authorities, where this work, indeed, as you said, will be done between and alongside other works. The purpose of our inquiry was to urge the government to continue to seek an answer on how much this burden on the economy is. If we can calculate the tax gap or the economic potential and GDP gap, we should also be able to calculate it. Do you think that this would still be necessary in the future if it had not been done so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U61	Thank you. The GDP gap, the tax hole and all that we can calculate, in fact, it is the experts of the Ministry of Finance. But this question should probably be addressed to Mr Sester. As I said, in concrete matters, as you can see, analyses have been carried out and they show that we are working quite effectively. There has been no comprehensive analysis of the cost of maintaining the European Union at all, either in this wording or in this angle of approach. But, of course, maintaining any organisation, institution and cooperation organisation will entail any costs. Sharing the Estonian state will also cost us costs, but we do not think that this is all pointless. On the contrary! However, if we want to use these funds, I think we want to use them, then there must be some costs to bear. Let me give you a simple example. Today we visited the Committee on Monetary Affairs in the Riigikogu and talked about cross-border programmes. In particular, it was an Estonian-Russian cross-border programme that deals with environmental issues and support for small business, with a volume of 40 million euros. This is likely to mean the work of about six people over a few years. This is again a difficult task for us: on the one hand, we want to reduce the number of officials, on the other hand, we realise that EUR 40 million is very large money, and it is understandable that, in order for this money to be used transparently, everything is controlled, rational and practical, some people have to work. I think that, in the end, for example, the employment of six people is justified for EUR 40 million. In other areas, the same is true. In this sense, I agree that I do not know whether you mean that we have had this experience of being in the European Union and using money for quite a long time, we have certainly done some stupid things about using this money for ten years, and in the new period we want to be smarter in managing and processing these processes, both on the side of bureaucracy and in making substantive decisions. We must not think that this is some kind of European money, that it simply comes from somewhere and that it does not matter what we do with it. You should still feel like it's our own tax money.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U62	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U63	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Although it is a late night and would like to put everyone on the bag, the talk about how useful the European Union has been to us does not really convince me. This does not convince me that practice is a criterion of truth, as we were taught in the course of Marxism in historical materialism. Practice is indeed a criterion of truth. We can see that, having been in the European Union for 11 years, despite the fact that we have received more than EUR 1 billion per year from the European Union's Structural Funds, plus some other projects of all kinds, our country is becoming more and more in a coma. We're shutting down schools, we're finishing up all kinds of other public services. It is estimated that 100000 people have left Estonia. It's all about the fact that it's not quite okay. My question is very simple: is there an audit or is there an assessment of how much investment has taken to bring everything that is needed into line with European directives and requirements?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U64	Thank you. I did not expect to convince you, in my late-night talk, that Estonia would benefit from being part of the European Union. We are probably in very different opinions. I believe that the answer will also be received from those countries that were our counterparts in the Soviet Union and are not part of the European Union. Do they do better, do they not have emigration or economic problems? I think the answers are in there. To be honest, all my attention went to the first part of the question, it seemed pretty unbelievable. What comes with membership of the European Union, how much it costs to process these grants, and how much analysis has been done on such matters. We're not groping in the dark, and we're moving in the right direction. As regards the implementation of the directives, which was the point of this issue, I admit that we have probably overworked in some areas, have been too busy, but I also said in my reply that we have probably learned our lessons. We are a relatively young Member State in the European Union, so we will learn to act in this collective family and turn these rules in the right direction for ourselves. But in general Estonia's membership of the European Union has still been a success story, both from this side and from the European Union's perspective. Of course, it's not paradise. We live in a practical world, we all have our mistakes, the European Union too.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U65	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I guess with this money, this is such a nice thing, especially in the European Union. It's nice to have it, but the punch is that there are no free lunches, first you get a carrot and then you get a whip. Especially in the European Union and especially from a German who is not stupid at all to play with money. We recall the EUR 1.2 billion that we have secured in the ESM, the very strong rhetoric of immigration and the Prime Minister on the subject that has sounded over the last few months that, although we have received a lot of help, we now need to give something back. Another ten years ago, the people were offered pinkmanna, but money flows in streams and does not have to give anything back. Are you willing to pass on the note to the head of your government, the Prime Minister, that it is not quite right to insist on the feeling of solidarity among the people that we have received many billions, but now we should start giving back?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U67	Members of the Riigikogu have every opportunity to submit notes to the Prime Minister themselves; I do not have to play the phone. Once again, we are likely to appreciate these 'indirect effects' in different ways or the general philosophy of the European Union and its membership. But if we look financially, then, excuse me very much, this data cannot be challenged. Being part of the European Union has been extremely useful for Estonia. For every euro we put in it, we take out four or five euros. Of course, it is a transitional period; it will not last forever. That should not be our goal. But let's look at those 11 years or the current period, where we're actually one of the biggest beneficiaries. In financial terms, there is no question. In the case of other, indirect estimates, let us all have room for interpretation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U68	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U69	Respectables, as many as there are! Mr. Minister! 25 years ago, when I started my first company, I had a very good and experienced Soviet director. I started making an estimate that I'm gonna put in so much money, and if I do this deal, I'm gonna get that much money and I'm gonna be nice and profitable, but he said, "Whoa-whoa-whoa, Mart, let me teach you a little bit now. That's not how a calculation is done. The calculation shall be carried out in such a way that account is taken of any light bulb that has gone into operation to keep the business running, every kilometre that has been driven by car, etc. " He made me wooden and red, how the calculations are made. I have this feeling, dear members of the government, that despite having the National Audit Office and all kinds of audits, we, at least with regard to the European Union, are not able to make a proper estimate. How many billions has it cost Estonia that 70,000 million people have left us? Who's gonna do the math? This has certainly cost us billions of euros. How many billion have we suffered because small businesses have made over-investments in order to bring their production into line with the meaningless Euro Directives? They've stopped doing what they did because it's just been too much for them. How many billions have we lost because of the self-financing of relatively pointless projects? But if the European Union becomes money, then it must also be self-financing! How much money and energy have we lost? These are the same light bulbs and mileage travelled, which should also be included in the calculation. One more thing. To be honest, I am upset by this worn-out statement of "comparing with fellows of destiny." What kind of fate mates? Name me one! There is no one to name, for they are not as destitute as they are trying to tell us. Kazakhstan is not a poorer country than Estonia, Azerbaijan is not a poorer country than Estonia. Let's not talk statistics! Statistics are one thing and wrong is another, as we know, then there will be a big lie and finally there will be more statistics. Or compare ourselves with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, which were also our destiny mates. We have no success story, we have actually been impoverished in 11 years. If we weren't impoverished, we could guarantee school lunches and a lot of things we've been talking about here for a long time today. But we are impoverished, despite the very same euro billions, which, as if, should have made us rich and brought Germany, Finland, Sweden and other dream countries to the level. It hasn't taken us there. That is why, among other things, we are not doing this estimate, where every last light bulb should be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U70	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair Jaak Madison!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U71	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We were talking about the European Union. At least we have some numbers and calculations of how much it's cost in the last 11 years. But what we are not talking about and what we cannot talk about purely mathematically is how we have killed our economy. I would like to draw attention to Mr Aas's wishes to have another word, very pleasant. The fact that Europe is one of the world's fastest growing economies. We're like stagnated old people in their 70s who are about to go to a retirement home and need care. That's what Europe is. What is the European Union's problem? I think that no person in this Chamber is opposed to the European Union that it was originally created. I believe that Mr Aas, too, knows as a right-wing politician, as a liberal and as a supporter of the free market economy, which is driving the economy forward. It's competition. But how can we compete with a Latvian farmer when a Brussels uncle comes and says that the directive does not allow? The Italian has to pour the milk, otherwise it'll be fine! This is a problem for the European Union and it is going to cost us something. It is not important whether we have 1,000 or 1,400 people on the payroll or whether we make 50% of them redundant and save the candy money. This is all very nice, which we can read from the budget. But the economy is in trouble. We have been talking since 2007 about how we are struggling with the crisis and how we will have a cloud state in 2019, how the problems will be solved, Greece saved, and Italy will not sink. But it's not like that. I think you also know that this is not the case. It's an extension of agony to keep the system a little bit alive. It is therefore incomprehensible to me and unacceptable for the right-wing parties, who should stand for free competition, for the free market economy, for the fight between countries for exports and for economic growth, to fully implement the left-wing socialist economic policy, where bureaucracy produces bureaucracy. That is the whole problem of the European Union: an enormous amount of bureaucracy, because these same bureaucrats, all these institutions, must keep themselves alive in order to prove the necessity of their own existence. No one wants to give it up, it is self-evident, but the fact that we approve of such a system is unacceptable to me. It doesn't make any sense. We are talking about how much we have benefited from the European Union. The problem is that there has been no mandate from the people, at last, a European Union of this kind. We joined the European Union in 2004, with a free market economy, free movement of labour and a single economic market, all of which are totally welcome. This is all positive, but we did not join the European Union, where the strength of light bulbs is determined. We did not join the European Union, which is pushing for solidarity to save Greek banks, and we in the ESM have promised to pay EUR 1.2 billion. We can say that there is a low probability that this will happen, but this risk exists and this risk is paid by the Estonian taxpayer. Then the EUR 6 billion received in 10 years will no longer pay anything, because that money is gone. The money has gone to build hedgehogs on the Tartu highway. This is where we are drowning euro area money. We should look to the future of this system. Unfortunately, the historical pattern is this: who does not look at the past, lives without the future. It's good old truth. From this we learn that no union has lasted forever. The question is how long and how it will last and if it will not last, how can it save itself as well as possible? If we look at the euro area now, it is obvious that it will not last very long. It is only a matter of time before we regroup in this very hall to discuss the new payment package. It is all connected to the European Union as a whole. If we solve one euro area crisis and economic collapse for ten years... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U72	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U73	... with exactly the same means, it makes sense that it doesn't lead anywhere. We're still in the same dead end. British Conservatives already see this system destroying itself. So it is a question for our government whether it is reasonable to promote such an ideology that the European Union is the best thing in the world that we could ever get into. Is the European Union really such a good and solidarity thing? The Prime Minister insists on solidarity as to how much money we have received from the taxpayer from the European Union, which has been paid by a German taxpayer who is not a fairy so generous that he would like to pay for the construction of our roads. Now it's time to pay back and at a much higher price. I guess a Western European isn't a fool to give money away for nothing, there's a percentage. Mr. Aas, you've only been a minister for six months. Let's hope you're a minister for another three and a half years. We hope that the government will continue and the country will go on stablely, but it will continue on the right course and stop demagogueing so much that we have received a piece of cash from the European Union and nothing has had to be paid back. That's a lie, we know that. Otherwise, the Head of Government would not have to tell the people of Estonia that we are receiving a few hundred or five hundred refugees, because we have received so much money. That's lying. There was no clause in the 2003 referendum that, you know, if we get EUR 6 billion, we will receive 500 immigrants. I do not know of any people who would have cast their vote on it in a referendum. Finally, I pay tribute and respect to the British Conservatives, who give their people and electorate the opportunity to say 'yes' or 'no' to the current course of the European Union towards federalisation and greater economic control, which leads to an ever greater crash, and the opportunity to return to the basic truths of the European Union, which is a true free market trade and national independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U74	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair, Minister of State Administration Arto Aasa!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U75	For my part, I'll just mention a few things as a comment. Personally, I do not think that the money received from the European Union budget has been the main and biggest trump card. It has undoubtedly been proven on black white, it has undoubtedly been our success story and it has been useful to us financially. But I think the indirect effects are much more important, even if the European Union is actually a single internal market without borders, which is a unique phenomenon. The fact that Estonian entrepreneurs and people can operate freely in the European Union with more than 500 million consumers is a unique phenomenon, not to mention the cultural impact. I appreciate it more important than the financial side. In this sense, I agree with Mr Madison that as a person with liberal and right-wing views, I very much like the fact that there is a single internal market, but I do not like the European Union being so protectionist towards third countries. I am a very strong supporter of free trade agreements. But if we come to our historical background and manage, whether we have done well or not, then I will not compare Estonia with Kazakhstan or any other country. It would take a huge global conspiracy to believe they're actually doing better than we are. Maybe in the center of Astana, certain people do, but not all people, not to mention personal freedoms and democratic opportunities. It's impossible to compare these things. Finally, this free school lunch talk that sounded several times today. I'm asking you not to tell me this unless you want to deliberately lie. Unlike many, I went to school in the 1990's and know that there were no free lunches. No, it wasn't. I can assure you. We paid for a school lunch, there were stamps, and we paid for it. It was a very difficult, far more difficult economic situation than it is now. I come from a very poor family, my mother raised two children alone. I'm not a wealthy person who could say that I didn't notice what it was. I know very well, and I remember. So, unfortunately or fortunately, this talk about how being part of the European Union has robbed our children of free school lunch is not true. That's where I'm gonna end up. Thank you and good night.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U76	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U77	Dear colleagues, now you're all busy and speedily welcome to a free microphone after a hammer strike. I don't see any calls. The sitting is adjourned. I wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 2.10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U78	Very honorable Riigikogu, good afternoon! We will begin the Monday session of the 2nd plenary session. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U79	Ladies and gentlemen, I will pass on the draft decision of the Riigikogu to amend the decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Institutions'. Its content is very simple. Hardi Volmer, whose mandate as a member of the Riigikogu has now ended, can no longer be a member of this special committee. We propose that Mr Kalev Eagle be appointed as a member of this committee instead of Hardi Volmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U80	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U81	Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to report to Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, on the funding of the Police and Border Guard Board. The budget for next year will soon reach the Riigikogu, and I think it is time to watch a little more closely how the Police and Border Guard Board and internal security will be financed more widely. After all, this is not just a question of internal security. The European Union's external borders also need to be built, and I would like to know more about how this is happening. The Committee on Legal Affairs visited the eastern border during the summer and it became clear that there are a number of issues that need to be clarified. Much has been said, for example, about how to build a land border and clean it from the bush. But the river border, for example, should be in order. We have not had much talk about this and we do not know how much money has been earmarked for it. That is why I and many of my group friends have a number of questions for Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U82	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U83	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching today a draft law on the general part of the Social Code. Margus Tsahkna, Minister of Social Protection, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U84	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U85	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs gives the procedure not one draft decision of the Riigikogu, but even two, which changes the composition of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Estonian delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, as proposed by the political groups. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has a proposal to appoint a Tuesday, i.e. tomorrow, 22 September at 13 p.m., the deadline for submitting amendments to the Riigikogu Board on these drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U86	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present today, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, a draft law providing for the amendment of the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. The purpose of the amendment is to abolish the restriction which entered into force on 1 May 2014, which makes it impossible to register as unemployed a member of the company's management board and therefore does not have the possibility to receive unemployment benefit. A legislative amendment is needed, as the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund relies solely on the data of the business register and does not assess the actual situation when registering people as unemployed and deciding on them. Attention has also been given to the situation where the company has ceased its activities and does not have any economic or other activities which have the effect of giving the company no turnover, and the manager does not have the opportunity to receive income from the company, be it earnings or dividends. There have been situations in Estonia where the company's manager has not been able to leave the company's management, as the company has not had the money to liquidate. We are of the opinion that it is not a fair situation that does not account for the person who is a member of the company's board and does not receive any remuneration in his office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U88	I have adopted five draft laws and one inquiry on behalf of the board. They will be processed on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Let's do a presence check, please! 98 members of the Riigikogu are present, 3 is missing. First, we need to confirm the week's agenda. Honourable Riigikogu, I shall vote on the approval of the weekly agenda. Please take a stand and vote. The draft agenda was approved by 94 members of the Riigikogu, one against and one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U89	Let's start on the basis of the approved agenda. The first item is an inquiry by Kadri Simson, Toomas Vitsut, Mailis Reps, Valeri Korbi, Priit Toobali, Kersti Sarapuu, Erki Savisaare, Martin Repinski, Jüri Ratas and Tarmo Tamme to the President of Eesti Pank. On behalf of the heirs, please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U90	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, On behalf of ten members of the Riigikogu, at the beginning of the summer we briefed the Governor of Eesti Pank on the asset purchase programme of the central banks of the euro area.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U91	One moment, please, Kadri Simson! Please stop the clock! Honourable members of the Riigikogu, please be quiet! Please, it's okay to go on!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U92	I understand that 1.1 trillion euros are very exciting in the members of the Riigikogu, because there are so many zeros in this number that it is unfathomable. But from s. From 9 March 2004 the central banks started buying-in bonds in the European Union. Among other things, our own Estonian central bank will also contribute to this buying-in. The aim of buying-in bonds is primarily to contribute to the economic growth of countries whose bonds are purchased but also to help restore sustainable inflation. Government bonds are also purchased from the private sector, i.e. from the secondary market. We here in Estonia are in an exceptional situation. Our country has no bonds and therefore Eesti Pank buys most of the bonds of European international organisations, but since June it has also been entitled to purchase the bonds of the state-owned network company Elering AS. These EUR 1.1 trillion are divided into a year and a half. The bond purchases started in March will last until September next year. On the basis of the capital key, Eesti Pank's monthly purchase is roughly 120 million euros. We also looked at the website of Eesti Pank today. There are still only the first three months of purchases: 117 million euros in March, 119 million euros in April and 129.8 million euros in May. A total of 365 million euros has been purchased in three months. The Governor of Eesti Pank will certainly specify the purchases of the last few months. That is why we have a number of questions. We asked these questions in the spring to the Prime Minister, who either did not want or could not provide answers. He pointed out that what kind of bonds are purchased is the question of Eesti Pank's own choices. We therefore want to know what these purchases are made on the basis of and under what conditions this activity must meet. We want an assessment of whether Estonia would be in a better position if, like other countries in the euro area, we could also revive our own economies. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U93	Ardo Hansson, Governor of Eesti Pank, must answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U94	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! I have been asked three very constructive questions that I am trying to answer today. First, it asked which countries and international organisations had the bonds purchased by Eesti Pank under the asset purchase programme of the central banks of the euro area. The second question was which conditions the bond must satisfy in order for Eesti Pank to invest in it. The Eurosystem central banks' asset purchase programme shall comprise three purchase programmes. First, the financial sector covered bonds, in English covered bonds. Secondly, asset-backed bonds, in English asset-backed securities. These two are private-sector bonds. Thirdly, public sector bonds or public sector purchase programmes. What is the purpose of the asset purchase programme, and why do we do so? The central bank buys up bonds on the market to encourage investors selling bonds to invest money elsewhere. Purchases have the effect of reducing the return on lower-risk assets and this motivates investors to take higher risks. This so-called portfolio relocation effect contributes to the growth of investment and thus economic activity. As the economy recovers, inflation will also gradually come closer to the common objective of the euro area central banks, which is to keep inflation in the euro area on average just below 2% in the medium term. The central banks have reached asset purchases because interest rates traditionally used to manage economic activity and inflation have reached zero and are no longer able to influence the economy. Since the issues focus on the public bond purchase programme of central banks, and this has also raised the most questions in the public sphere, I will explain this in more detail. First of all, I would like to stress that the financial system in continental Europe is bank-based and that a fully unified capital market is still at an early stage of development. This means that European companies mainly finance themselves with bank loans, and that is why the bond market here is much smaller than the United States, where most of the financing of business is provided through the bond market. The European bond market is therefore rather limited. More than half of this market is made up of euro area governments and institutional bonds when it comes to debt securities suitable for central banks. A sufficiently large market was one of the important reasons why the Governing Council of the European Central Bank decided to intervene in the market for public sector bonds with regard to asset purchases. In order not to unduly affect this market by central banks, we have made it a restriction that euro area central banks can buy up to a third of the volume of issuer bonds. Each week, the European Central Bank publishes a summary of the expanded asset purchase programmes of the euro area central banks on its website. Purchases of the euro area central banks' public sector bond purchase programme are made every month for about 50 billion euros, of which Eesti Pank accounts for around 120 million euros. The total value of bonds purchased under the public securities purchase programme amounted to EUR 314,5 billion as at 11 September. Planned asset purchases until September 2016 or until the Governing Council sees inflation dynamics consistent with the mandate of the euro area central banks to keep inflation in the euro area below and close to 2% over the medium term. As a general rule, each central bank buys its own government bonds as part of a public bond purchase programme, while other sovereign bonds are not purchased. Purchases require these bonds to be accepted as collateral in monetary policy operations of the euro area central banks, which means having a sufficiently strong credit rating. The credit risk associated with the purchase of own government bonds is borne by the national central bank. As the Estonian state has not issued bonds, Eesti Pank will make so-called replacement purchases within the limits of the volume allocated to us. The central banks also make replacement purchases in countries where the offer of bonds corresponding to the purchase plan is limited. Eesti Pank generally buys bonds from European institutions, such as the European Financial Stability Fund, the Nordic Investment Bank and the European Investment Bank. The list of eligible bonds for buy-in purchases shall be approved by the Governing Council of the European Central Bank. Non-financial corporations belonging to the public sector can be transferred there in exceptional circumstances. Eesti Pank asked the Governing Council of the European Central Bank for permission to exceptionally buy Elering's bonds belonging to the Estonian state and this was granted at the beginning of June. The purchase of Elering's bonds is treated by Eesti Pank as an option, but not as an obligation. Specific purchasing volumes depend on the availability and price of the asset. As of the end of August, Eesti Pank had purchased Elering's bonds in the order of 30 million euros. It should be stressed that the volume of bonds issued by Elering is quite small in view of Eesti Pank's purchasing volumes and the offer of these bonds on the market is even more limited. If we were to buy (and sell) Elering's bonds at the maximum amount allowed to take into account the issue limit of the asset purchase programme, this would cover just over half of the volume of one month's purchases of Eesti Pank's asset purchase programme. I now come to the third question, which reads as follows: 'The European Central Bank's asset purchase programme is intended to boost the European Union's economy. The Estonian state does not have state bonds, so Eesti Pank does not have the possibility to buy its own government bonds. How does this fact affect the impact of the plan on the Estonian economy? Is this why the impact of the programme on the Estonian economy less than in countries that buy their own government bonds under the programme? ' First of all, I stress that the public bond purchase programme follows a government financing ban. Therefore, bonds will never be purchased on the primary market, i.e. directly from the government, but only from the secondary market after the post-issue market price has developed. In this way, the price of government credit risk will be left to other market participants to shape. Secondly, it is important to note that Eesti Pank buys Elering's bonds belonging to the Estonian state. At the same time, Elering is not directly benefiting from it, because as a central bank, we buy bonds only on the secondary market. Thus, Eesti Pank can buy Elering's bonds from a bank located in London, for example, or from a client of a bank operating in Estonia. By buying Elering's bonds, we'll make sure we get the best deal we can on the market. The same principle applies to government bonds. For example, the German national central bank does not buy its sovereign bonds from the government but from the secondary market. So if a bank operating in Estonia or an investor in Estonia holds bonds issued by a government of a euro area country, banks or investors operating in Estonia can also sell them to the central bank of that country. Thirdly, I would stress that the Governing Council of the European Central Bank decided to purchase assets in order to encourage investors selling bonds to invest money elsewhere, which means better financing conditions for companies operating in the euro area, including Estonian companies. The asset purchase programme cannot be the reason why one country increases the debt burden on its government. Under the asset purchase programme, the bond holder will change but the volume of bonds issued by the countries will not grow. Overall, a reduction in public debt in the euro area as a whole is essential. In the euro area, the government debt ratio is projected to fall from 92% of GDP last year to 89% of GDP by 2017. One of the strengths of Estonia has been the low level of public debt. When planning financial matters, we must take into account the quite sudden ageing of the Estonian population, which is why we have fewer hands and more people needing support. In addition, as the level of income in the country increases, EU subsidies will start to decrease. On the eve of more financial times, it cannot be considered reasonable to increase debt. In making plans for financing the state budget, it is important to be guided by both European Union rules and national laws that provide for structural budgetary balances. A rapidly increasing public debt without a significant reason would probably lead to a downgrading of Estonia's sovereign rating and would significantly worsen the financial conditions of companies and private individuals. The asset purchase programme cannot be the main reason for public investment either. Public investment must earn money borrowed in accordance with both commercial logic and European Union rules, because the debt must be repaid regardless of who the creditor is. Given the current cyclical position of the Estonian economy, there is no need to issue additional bonds to finance the Estonian state budget. According to Eesti Pank, the Estonian economy is currently at a stage where the government should start saving rather than borrowing more for additional expenditure. As a result of the purchase of assets, lending will become more favourable to Estonian companies, households and also to the government. Thus, Estonia will also benefit from short-term asset purchases, although we do not have government bonds that the central bank could buy. Further account should be taken of the impact of monetary policy rates in the euro area and other countries on exchange rates. Looking at the forecasts of the major developed countries, it is clear that in the coming years the euro area is expected to continue to support growth, but in several other developing countries interest rates are projected to rise. This difference in growth prospects has led to a weakening of the exchange rate of the euro. The cheap euro supports the export opportunities of euro area countries. Improved competitiveness will benefit Estonia at least in the short term, where exports account for more than 75% of total production and nearly half of exports relate to non-euro area countries. Interest has never been as low in Europe or around the world as it is now. A favourable interest environment supports the restoration of economic activity. However, persistently low interest rates can also lead to imbalances, i.e. risks which can be costly for society to realise. Possible bubbles in financial markets or real estate prices are more likely to occur with low interest rates. This is why it is more important than ever for macro-financial supervision and for efforts to improve and develop macro-financial supervision, both national and European. That is why Eesti Pank has also increased the buffers required of banks and set minimum requirements for commercial banks to grant housing loans, which will reduce the risk of a loan boom in the future as a preventive step. Thus, all in all, Estonian companies and households will be able to benefit from the asset purchase programme, but this will not lead to temptations to raise public debt in a situation where we should actually reduce it in view of the cyclical position of the economy. It must be borne in mind that monetary policy can provide short-term relief for the economy, but it cannot generate long-term economic growth. Thus, monetary policy measures do not replace the need for structural reforms to improve competitiveness and to maintain public finances in order. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U95	Questions for the Governor of Eesti Pank. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U96	Thank you. Dear Ardo Hansson! You mentioned that even in countries where the central bank would be able to purchase its own sovereign bonds, these bonds may not be available in the secondary market and therefore a list of buy-in has been made. In April Eesti Pank tried to get the list in addition to Elering Eesti Energia, but it remained out of it. Two weeks ago, news came that Eesti Energia has issued a new very large bond issue of 500 million debt securities with an eight-year maturity of In this situation, are you trying to get the Estonian Energia bonds back on the buy-in list, and do you really think this is necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U97	Thank you for your question. This subject is still being discussed. However, this is not a list of buy-in purchases, but a list of so-called agencies, a state-related list of certain bodies which are involved, for example, in the development of infrastructure. The initial list has been confirmed. That Elering case was a little bit easier. We do not want to start offering loans to companies that deliver under competitive conditions. One company may be given a competitive advantage by purchasing its bonds. Since Elering is in a monopolistic state, there won't be a problem. We are currently looking at the situation of Eesti Energia. This situation may change during this review, but nothing can be allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U98	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, How much will Eesti Pank invest in bonds this year, 2015? Perhaps you will also explain where Eesti Pank's funds come from to contribute precisely to these bonds?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U100	Thank you. We actually have three programs. Within the framework of the first two, since we do not have very many covered or guaranteed bonds, we do not make these purchases directly. The only things we do are government bonds. This is about EUR 120 million per month, with EUR 1.44 billion per year. What was your second question again? [[Answer from the floor.]] Where's the money coming from? We're basically issuing this money. All central banks simply issue new money to buy these bonds. The aim is again that when we buy these bonds and give them extra money to the markets, those investors, businesses, banks that sell to us have money in their pockets and maybe they are looking for alternative options and better returns and, to some extent, that money should move to the private sector or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U101	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U102	Thank you, good Chairman! Good Governor of Eesti Pank! You said that one of the objectives of this measure is to get inflation to 2% or slightly below it. How many of the first steps that have already been taken have raised inflation rates and how long can it take to achieve this 2%?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U103	Thank you. It may be too early to make an accurate assessment now, as a number of changes are taking place in the global economy. In particular, they relate to oil prices, including food commodity prices and other prices, which have played a very important role in reducing inflation rates. I think time will tell. At present, the European Central Bank's forecast foresees inflation to be around 1.7% by 2017. We are now looking forward to two years, in 24 months we want to increase the inflation rate by about one and a half percentage points. It's going to be 0.2% right now. We already see that this process is slow. But at the beginning of the programme, when we measured the inflation expectations of the various market players, we noticed that it seemed to have some effect, however, did. The second thing is so-called core inflation. For example, the price of agricultural commodities and oil is something that we do not have very much control over. There has been a slight rise in inflation. But I think we need to be patient so it gets close to 2%.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U104	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Bank. Do you expect Estonian companies to issue or offer their bonds for purchase? Do you think that Estonian entrepreneurs should take more initiative on this issue and borrow more and use it to carry out more projects, or do you take a breath of relief rather than do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U106	Thank you for your question. On the one hand, we would not want the loan boom that ruled eight or nine years ago to be repeated. This was not a normal situation, and it caused very bad consequences. So I don't want to borrow too much. Of course, if they borrow too little, it's a symptom again that maybe they don't have confidence in the future. Loan growth at an adequate pace is optimal. We now see that credit growth in Estonia is around 4% a year, which is more or less in line with nominal growth in the economy. It could be a little faster, but I don't think we'd want it to grow very fast either. The second thing is, of course, the development of our own financial markets. As I said, the European financial sector is very banking-centred; it is also very banking-centred in Estonia. Different groups are trying to diversify it by creating a market for private sector bonds, boosting the stock market, offering alternative financing options. It is certainly worth working in this direction, but I think the changes are relatively slow. It is a little harder for a small country to do this because a large country has a large market that is becoming more and more liquid, but it is harder for a small country to generate liquidity and to find companies that think that eventually it will be cheaper for them to issue bonds than to borrow from a bank. These candidates may not be very many.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U107	No further questions. Thank you, Ardo Hansson! I'm opening negotiations, no calls. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U108	The next question is submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Tamm, Kadri Simson, Marika Tuus-Laul, Heimar Lenk, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Vladimir Velman, Lauri Laas, Andrei Novikov, Dmitri Dmitriev, Enn Eesmaa, Rein Ratas, Olga Ivanova, Jüri Ratas, Martin Repinski, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Karilaid, Priit Toobal, Viktor Vassiliev, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korb, Toomas Vitsut and Mailis Reps. On behalf of the heirs, please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, According to Eesti Pank, commercial banks operating in Estonia earned from 2000 to 2013. EUR 2.6 billion in profits in 2008. At the same time, only 59 million euros of corporate income tax was paid to the Estonian State on distributed profits, which is slightly less than 2.3% of profits. This situation has been the result of a corporate tax scheme which entered into force in 2000, which provides only for the tax to be levied on distributed profits. Most countries tax profits earned by companies as soon as they earn it, while Chile, for example, is using a system similar to that of Estonia. In Sweden, where the parent banks of Estonia's largest banks are active, the classic corporate income tax applies at a rate of 22%. In addition, Sweden is considering introducing a new tax on financial activities for its banks to finance the fight against unemployment. Magdalena Andersson, Minister of Finance of the new government, justifies the introduction of a tax on financial activities by undertaxing the financial sector in Sweden and making very high profits for the four largest banks. According to the statistics of the European Central Bank, according to 2012 data, Estonian banks were among the first banks in the 27 countries of the European Union in terms of their return on equity. Perens, head of Swedbank, commented on the study as follows: Estonian banks are just as greedy as competition allows them to be. I would add that Estonian banks are as greedy as they are allowed to be our government. We have four questions for the Prime Minister. I hope the Prime Minister will read these questions too. We're waiting for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U110	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to the question of 11 May on the taxation of banks. Question one: '2013. The profits of Estonian commercial banks amounted to 443.6 million euros in 2008. Even if all profits had been taxed at a rate of 12% immediately after the profits were made, more than EUR 53 million would have been paid to the state budget instead of EUR 17,4 million. Why are banks clearly undertaxed in Estonia? ' Since all questions of inquiry concern the Estonian income tax system, it is worth pointing out from the outset that income tax, especially corporate income tax, is the most disincentive to economic activity, according to empirical analyses. Consumption taxes hinder economic activity less than income tax, asset taxes even less. This observation comes not from me, but from the OECD. It is also stressed that a growth-friendly tax system distorts as little as possible market signals and that undistorted market signals contribute to a more efficient allocation of resources in the economy. Coming to the question asked, it should be noted that commercial banks operating in Estonia are not undertaxed. Estonia has a tax system under which profits of companies are taxed only when they are paid out. For example, this summer Swedbank made a dividend payment of EUR 400 million, from which EUR 100 million of income tax was collected in the state budget. The Income Tax Act has encouraged Estonian banks to hold buffers and thus made them stronger. Secondly, unlike companies in the non-financial sector, banks have to pay not only normal taxes but also fees aimed at safeguarding financial stability. This includes, for example, supervisory fees for the Financial Supervision Authority (total of EUR 5.9 million last year) and contributions to the Guarantee Fund (EUR 12.5 million last year). In addition, banks will have to make further payments to the Single European Union Resolution Fund, which is estimated to cost the banks five to six million euros a year. Question 2: 'How do you assess the return on equity of Estonian commercial banks compared to other commercial banks in the European Union? Should the state limit the greed of the banks, however? " The economy of several countries in the European Union was hit during the financial crisis and directly affected commercial banks. Economic adjustment in these countries brought down the quality of banks' assets and also kept the rate of return below. This must certainly be borne in mind when selecting the reference base. Estonian commercial banks are strong and well capitalised. This has contributed to the economic recovery of Estonia since the outbreak of the global financial crisis. Unlike the economies of several other European Union countries, the Estonian economy has been growing steadily since 2010 and the volume of the Estonian economy has increased by almost one fifth during this period. This will certainly also enable banks to achieve greater productivity in their assets. In addition, banks operating in Estonia are more cost-effective, allowing for additional productivity. It is important that Estonian people increasingly use electronic channels to make payments, which allows reducing the share of cash in economic transactions and optimising expenditure related to the office network. Bank offices can focus more on providing advisory services. In particular, effective competition is a factor influencing the profitability of banks. In Estonia, 16 banks, including branches of foreign credit institutions, offer their services, from which consumers can choose. Question three: '2000. The Reform Party has called Estonia a great success story. Why has this system had so few followers in Europe that it is so good and business-friendly? ' For historical reasons, the Estonian economy lags behind the amount of capital used per employee from countries with higher income levels. However, the more capital per employee, the more productive the economy is. The Estonian income tax system favours investment activity and the accumulation of capital, which has contributed to productivity growth and an increase in our standard of living. Estonia stands out among other European Union countries as having a high share of investment in GDP. From 2000 onwards, the share of investment in GDP has been the highest in the European Union. An example of this is the influx of foreign direct investment per employee, in which Estonia is among the leaders of Central and Eastern Europe. In the light of the poor economic growth of recent years, many European countries need to reform to improve their competitiveness. These reforms will certainly include, on the one hand, a reduction in expenditure and, on the other hand, a reduction in the tax burden, especially in those countries where the role of the public sector in the economy has widened and business sector taxes have proved burdensome to the economy. Tax policy is usually conservative and these changes do not occur overnight. Reforms of tax systems are long-term and complex processes. Question 4: 'According to the Minister for Finance, the government coalition, as one of the sources of cover, discussed the restoration of the classic corporate tax instead of raising excise duties on fuel. What were the arguments that led the cabinet to choose to increase excise duties on fuel? " The sharp rise in the corporate tax burden would reduce the growth prospects of the Estonian economy and thus reduce the opportunities for increasing the incomes of Estonian people. This is one of the many reasons why the government does not consider it right to suddenly increase the corporate tax burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U112	Questions for the Prime Minister. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U113	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! The Reform Party has remained the only party in the Riigikogu to support the continuation of the income tax system in this form. I read to you the words of one of your party partners: 'The debate organised by Praxis 'How to Increase the Income of the State', however, brought out by Mr Viljar Arakas, the head of EfTen Capital, that each company's goal is to pay the owner's income at one point and that is why the opportunity is chosen and the country where it is most advantageous. 'Today, it is more pragmatic for a company operating in the Baltic market to pay 15% corporation tax in Latvia than in Estonia for 20% of dividends. The tax exemption on invested profits is working against his business today,' mediated ERR Araka. ' I am asking you, Prime Minister, if even the ardent supporters of your party do not support the continuation of this tax system, is it not time that this experiment was declared unsuccessful and that classic corporate income tax be introduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U114	Thank you. It's not time. As I said, corporate income tax is the most detrimental tax on economic activity and growth. The introduction in Estonia of a tax that inhibits economic growth would not only work against the opportunity of companies to grow, but would also oppose the possibility of increasing the income of Estonian people. It is true that there are countries in our immediate neighbourhood, where the withdrawal of capital from the company is more advantageous than in Estonia. By lowering income tax, the withdrawal of capital from the company has also become more favourable. All the proposals that have been made repeatedly by your group to increase the rate of income tax would also be counterproductive so that capital can be taken out of the company in a favourable way. This is because it would also increase the tax burden on companies. But in Estonia it has been well aware that our primary interest is not to encourage capital withdrawal through the tax system, but precisely to encourage the accumulation of capital in the company, to encourage investments that generate additional economic growth. This is why the Estonian system is unique and allows capital to be accumulated. It has brought, as you can see from statistics, a huge number of foreign investments into Estonia. The attractiveness of foreign investors is also something that ultimately has a very positive impact on the economy and helps people's incomes to grow.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U115	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U116	Thank you to the manager. Thank you for your answers to the Prime Minister. But my question is this: how do you comment that the fees for commercial banks here are three or four times higher than in their motherland? This is in a situation where commercial banks here increasingly pool their ATM networks and close their offices. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U117	Thank you. No comment at all. It is not the government's competence to intervene in the pricing of companies. The market and competition are the ones that best match prices. I guess there are reasons why banks have opted for such pricing. You know very well that neither the government nor Parliament has a role to play in setting prices for one or the other private company.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U118	§ 140 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act states that a member of the Riigikogu has the right to submit a question to the addressee of the inquiry. Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Some of your words may agree, some may not. But here's my question. The current income tax system has shaped a situation in which companies do not withdraw income or reinvest money, which is to say they simply leave profits undistributed. Companies have accumulated quite large sums of money, which can already be measured in billions of euros. Do you have any idea how to solve this problem so that money does not stand in companies' accounts, or is it invested, or that people withdraw dividends?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U120	Thank you. In itself, if a company has capital to invest, it is positive. This shows that the company has capital buffers to survive more difficult times. We know that there are, and there are, areas of business where profitable years vary with loss-making, and in this case a certain capital buffer is only in the company's interest. If the company did not have enough capital, it could have very serious consequences. I think that this tax system, which has been in place in Estonia for 15 years and has brought a great deal of investment here, is also in the interests of companies. Also, the argument that companies are not taking profits is not quite correct. If you look at the receipts this year, it can already be said that the proceeds of corporation tax exceed those expectations that existed at the time the budget was made with a very large margin. This is not only about Swedbank's very high profit tax, which receives EUR 100 million in the state budget, but also about a number of other companies that have decided to withdraw profits. All these facts confirm that the more advantageous it is for a company to make profits in the country, the greater the profits. The higher the profits, the greater the profit for society. We should not be envious of businesses because the tax system promotes profit. On the contrary, we should be proud of the fact that Estonian entrepreneurs invest and these investments create jobs, contributing to the fact that Estonia has been one of Europe's biggest wage increases in several years in a row. If companies did not invest, wages could not increase. So there's a connection between everything. The role of the corporate tax system in shaping the Estonian economy is quite significant.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U121	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U122	Thank you. Prime Minister! What you're saying is a little misleading. Yes, perhaps the wages have increased a little lately, but at the same time you failed to mention that we have some of the worst wages in the European Union. I come to one of the issues addressed by the questioner, the Swedish banks and the withdrawal of profits. You said that it is not the government's business to shape profits, i.e. how companies shape it. However, the government's business is the standard of living of the Estonian people. The question here: is it justified, however, that profits have been taken out of Estonia over decades? It's only now that Swedbank has paid a little off. Why, at the same time, do we still have much higher fees than Sweden, Denmark or Finland? Finally, the question is why foreign banks are allowed to use Estonian people's money in Estonia without paying a dividend on it, nothing. A man keeps his money coerced in that bank. There's no point in smiling at it, everyone's asking why he should keep money in that bank if he doesn't get any percent of it. Make sure you have a minus, sometimes you have to pay for it. It's banks...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U123	Question time's over. Thank you, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U124	Please don't interrupt my question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U125	You have one minute. Ask your question in one minute, I'd be very grateful.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U126	Thank you. I really admire Heimar Leng's talent over this minute or a little longer to bring out so much both facts and arguments and questions. Just find a place to start to answer! I will begin by rejecting the incorrect statements I have been given. I did not say that making profits is not a national matter, but I said that the pricing of companies is not a matter in which the state should intervene. It was specifically about the fees you referred to, but it also concerns the price of all goods in the store. You know very well that, under market economy conditions, prices develop through the relationship between demand and supply, and the state does not play this role in pricing, so that it tells someone in advance what price commercial goods must be sold or purchased and also services provided. Now, from your last statement, it is as if the people of Estonia should be forced to keep their money in foreign banks that do not pay dividends. That's what I, I have to be honest with you, didn't quite understand. I'm saying there were quite a few inaccuracies or even lies. First of all, no one is forced to keep their money in banks based on foreign capital. There are also banks in Estonia that are entirely based on Estonian capital. Secondly, to distinguish between capital ownership and capital ownership is, in my opinion, not right at all. These foreign banks, as you mentioned, are also by coming to the Estonian market and offering services to the people of Estonia, helping a very large number of people to obtain loans much more favourably than banks would have been able to provide without foreign capital. Finally, if you had listened to the answers to the question, you would have noticed that your final statement, as if foreign banks did not pay dividends, is absolutely not true. In particular, I spoke on several occasions about a dividend payment of EUR 400 million to Swedbank, which resulted in a profit of EUR 100 million for the Treasury. But that's not all. Swedbank pays 60% of its profits each year, and already several years in a row, Swedbank has received very significant dividend payments from the Treasury. Many important things have been done in Estonia for these sums. So you had several false claims at the same time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U127	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U128	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! You are talking about rapid economic growth. If I look at the state budget of 8,6 billion this year, 8.9 billion next year, I would not say that this budget would increase very quickly, because many of the social programmes that the state should be dealing with are, let's say, modest. We can talk about the minimum wage or pay that should be paid by educators in day-care centres, cultural workers, etc. Can you comment on when the other half of our lives will start to go faster than today?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U129	Thank you. First of all, I dare say that it is very likely that one of the fastest growing national budgets in the European Union will be the Estonian state budget. This is in circumstances where the tax burden decreases as a percentage of GDP and Estonia does not go into a large deficit with its state budget, at the expense of which many countries have increased their budgets. So the growth of the Estonian budget is not a problem at all. You mentioned a number of areas, some of which, I think you know well, relate to municipal budgets. However, for example, the salaries of cultural workers mentioned by you are one of the priorities of the state budget, along with the salaries of teachers, internal security staff and also social welfare workers. The payroll alone will grow by 4% next year. As ministers also have the opportunity to channel money from the payroll at the expense of internal resources and by failing to fulfil additional jobs, it can be expected that the salaries of both teachers and cultural workers will increase significantly by more than 4% next year. I dare say that they are also growing significantly faster than Estonia's average wage. This is a well-informed choice, and there are resources in the state budget for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U130	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U131	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I'll correct you first. You argued that the state cannot dictate pricing for companies. The country does this all the time. You have just pushed through the tax package here, through taxes we are also dictating pricing. You claim that the state cannot interfere with the imposition or non-imposition of fees. Yes, he can! In the event of injustice, the government, as well as the Riigikogu, will be able to initiate draft laws. But here's the question. Would it not be more reasonable to tax not only banks, but very many foreign retailers and large companies operating in Estonia, and to receive money from them for public services and state tasks rather than to expect a mysterious rise in the income of citizens and they themselves...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U132	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U133	...can compensate for all the necessary expenses?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U135	Thank you. I stressed that a market economy country does not impose prices. Yes, we both remember a different regime, that was once in Estonia. We also remember what it led to. It is possible to promote a plan economy, it is possible that the state will set prices. We know very well that if this leads to an unfairly low price, it will not lead to the product that is expected to be produced. There are still countries in the world that are trying to be smarter than the market and to impose all kinds of prices. None of these countries are doing very well economically. That's one. Secondly, there was a great desire through your question to take much more money away from foreign investors and make their lives as unpleasant as possible in Estonia. This may seem like a popular idea in a very short perspective, but knowing that capital throughout Europe has a free choice, where it invests and where it packs up its investments, it is an exceptionally short-sighted proposal. If the life of a foreign investor is made a hell with the high taxes you have offered, then the foreign investor will not come to Estonia, create jobs in Estonia and provide opportunities for an increase in the standard of living in Estonia. It's as simple as that. Countries are not competing for how to make an investor's life as difficult as possible. Countries are competing on how to attract as much foreign investment as possible. I would argue that the volume of the Estonian economy would be significantly smaller without foreign investment and that the income of Estonian people would be much lower without foreign investment. So before you propose to punish foreign investors, I suggest you think very carefully. By punishing investors and entrepreneurs, I am talking not only about foreign investors, but also about Estonian entrepreneurs, we are actually punishing people who work, whose wages are therefore falling. You probably wouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U136	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Did Swedbank's decision to pay such a large amount of dividends and income tax inform the Government of the Republic even before it informed the public? If he did, about when?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U138	Thank you. Yes, not long before this decision was published, I was also informed of that decision. It is good practice that a number of large companies, when they make some very important decision that affects Estonian society, informs the government or the Prime Minister specifically. I must say, yes, I was well aware of that decision. In the government, we have a valid agreement that, should there be significant additional revenue during the financial year, we will refrain from making additional expenditure or budgeting. Such unscheduled additional revenues go to the national reserve in order to be well prepared for unexpected events, if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U139	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U140	Prime Minister! You mentioned briefly, with regard to foreign investors, that their taxation is certainly not acceptable. I ask how many new foreign investors came in last year and how much capital they brought into the Estonian economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U141	Thank you. After all, it is very easy to find answers to all the questions concerning statistics. I don't have those bills with me, but if you want, I'm ready to send them to you in writing. In any case, foreign investment has had a very positive impact on economic growth in Estonia; there is no doubt about that. Of course, foreign investments have come to Estonia last year and this year. The statistics can be sent in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U142	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U143	Thank you! Good minister! In the submitted inquiry, 443.6 million euros have been called the profit of Estonian commercial banks for the past year. Do you have a picture or a cross-section of the structure of the amount of profit? How much did the fees come close, how much did the interest on the loan, etc.? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U144	Thank you. That is actually a very good question. I believe that the answer to the previous question would probably have answered this question by heart, as Eesti Pank is much more exposed to the kitchen side of commercial banks than the government. However, I dare to assume that the fees are still a rather small part of it, rather, by looking purely at the logic of circulation, I assume that most of it is still dependent on interest on all kinds of credit products. But I don't want to speculate too much. I believe that more detailed answers can be obtained from Eesti Pank. If you look at where this profit comes from in the calculation of market participants, there are rather good proportions of the market share of the different banks. Swedbank has logically been the most profitable bank.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U145	No more questions... It is. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U146	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I'll take your word for it. You mentioned that teachers' pay will rise significantly by more than 4% next year. I have just come from a meeting of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, which was attended by the Minister of Education, Ligi, who spoke about a 4% raise. Can your mouth now congratulate all the teachers and assure them that the raise will be much greater?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U147	Thank you. The 4% increase that has been added to the teachers' payroll by government decision in the state budget. The final salary increase can be higher because the Minister of Education and Research plans to find the payroll fund from other funds. It also affects that the number of teachers is on a downward rather than upward trend, the rise in wages so that wages per person can grow more than the overall growth of the payroll. So, yes, I am convinced that next year the salaries of teachers will increase significantly by more than 4%. The final increase will, I hope, be revealed by the time the budget is adopted in Parliament. If you look at the bigger picture, we have agreed in the government union between the three political parties that the teachers' average salary would reach 120% of the average wage in Estonia, i.e. a fewty percent higher than the Estonian average. In order to achieve this, teachers' wages must increase significantly faster than the average wage in Estonia for four years in a row. While Estonia's average wage is projected to increase by 4 to 5%, teachers' wages have to grow about half as fast as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U148	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Tarmo Tamm, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U149	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It's not like Reform's golden egg has any followers in the rest of the world. Currently, only Malta and Chile are using this system. I don't see any other country joining it. At the same time, I recall that the productivity of Estonian banks is the highest in the European Union, i.e. they earn the most. I do not understand whether or not the government and the Prime Minister are not consulting businesses at all. The IT company Jaan Pillesaar and the real estate company Viljar Arakas have turned Estonian tax system into dust. It would also be wise to listen to entrepreneurs. The proposal of the Centre Party is not to increase corporate tax, as the Prime Minister said here. Our proposal is to introduce a classic corporate tax, introducing 12% corporate tax instead of the current 20%. That's our proposal. We have not wanted to increase corporate tax. I don't know where you get that impression. If the Swedish State taxes the banks with a corporation tax of 22%, the money still moves to the Swedish State. The Prime Minister said that it is good for us to invest, and they want to invest here. I would remind the Prime Minister that in recent years commercial banks have taken EUR 1 billion out of Estonia a year. A billion euros! This does not mean that we have a particularly attractive environment in which to invest, but money goes somewhere else. Now from this dividend payment of EUR 100 million to Swedbank. It is strange in itself that the Prime Minister had to tweet on Twitter and rejoice that one bank finally decided to give something to the Estonian state. In other parts of the world, it is not possible that the bank alone will decide when it will give this gift to the country. For this purpose, there is a corporate tax system and income tax is paid on earned income. But we have five years of this tax collection, and one day a small gift will be given to the state to calm the people a little bit. Then the Prime Minister has to tweet about it on Twitter and say, look, they finally started paying. There is no way that such a system will continue to function. I'm asking how the state budget will be put in place when there's money coming in half a year, but next year it won't be. See how banks in Latvia are taxed, how it happens in Sweden! In Latvia, 15% is taxed, the state is functioning and, as far as I know, more investments are going to Latvia than to Estonia. The Reform Party should get rid of this dogma. I know there are a lot of people in your party who don't like this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U150	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U151	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! It is probably an endless topic that we are discussing taxes and one side has its own right and arguments, the other side has its own right and arguments. I want to point out the arguments on our side. The first thing I want to reject is that corporate income tax is a barrier to economic development. It is difficult to accept the argument that corporate income tax is a key factor that hinders economic development. That's my logic. Fortunately or unfortunately, I have not been an entrepreneur and I do not know how things happen in practice, but I have a good imagination. I can imagine that before you get to the point of paying corporation tax, you first have to pay social tax, you have to pay income tax on employees' wages, and I think you have to pay VAT every 10th day. In order to achieve some kind of result with the company, you have to pay those taxes first. Then you have to pay off the interest on the loan and you have to pay the rising fuel costs when the company has cars. Then you're gonna have to pay off a bunch more bills. Finally, if you ever get to corporate tax, everything is basically done. Then you start thinking that now is the time to either pay corporate tax or not. Because if the company initially envisages this process, it will certainly think about corporate tax in the final order. First, he thinks about all the other things. But, unfortunately, we have everything else happening quickly and prices are also rising rapidly. In making an investment decision, I think, it's based on other things. The first question is whether there are competent workers in this country who can do this job, what are rental prices and what is the price of electricity, because it is important for industry. But if the price of electricity can quickly increase excise duty, it is due to economic circumstances and is inevitable. I would just like to say that this is not going to be so one-to-one that if there is corporate income tax, the economy will not grow. It's quite different, you have to look at all the other factors. Businesses would be happy to pay if, for example, the social tax or some other tax were lower. The system needs to be discussed and certainly a compromise found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U152	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U153	Mr. President! Prime Minister! The Prime Minister recalled another time, which he probably does not remember very well. I remember. When that second time ended, I was a little over 40 years old. I remember those times very well. Nobody wants those times back. To suspect us of that in this hall, I think, would be unfair. What we may suspect, however, is that we want a better life for the people of Estonia than what is now. From the point of view of wanting a better life, I think it is inevitable that we treat large companies, for which cartel agreements, such as fees, are also suspected, somewhat different from small domestic companies, whom we stifle by all kinds of directives, restrictions, controls and I do not yet know what. Large companies with additional capital to be taken from their motherland in order to make dumping in order to invest in compliance with requirements that are beyond the reach of small businesses should be treated in a somewhat different way. It's just inappropriate to be afraid that this will deter us from investing out of here. It's about putting words that are inappropriate in the mouth for opponents, or rather discussion partners. If almost all European countries use a certain tax on companies, of course, not to the point, then I do not see why these same companies should run away from Estonia in terror if they also have to pay a little more. I would like to emphasise once again: we see that the Estonian state is in trouble with money, we clean up the school network, we clean it up, the second and third, which means that we keep closing things down. If we do not have any money, then this money must be taken from somewhere, but it must not be argued that if businesses are not taxed, citizens will have more work and more pay. It's just not true. If you think we can still be fooled by Milton Friedman in the 25th year of independence, that's a big mistake. We're not that stupid in this hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U154	Would the Prime Minister like to make a speech at the end of the negotiations? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U155	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs and other members of the Riigikogu! After all, this is an entirely honest and necessary ideological debate that we have held here today. In my opinion, it is perfectly normal that different political forces see corporate taxation differently in Estonia. I represent a position that does not want an additional tax burden on entrepreneurs, because I think it would have a negative impact on the growth prospects of the Estonian economy and would not contribute to the growth of the income of Estonian people. The government that I manage has set itself the goal of Estonia's companies to do well because then unemployment can continue to be low in Estonia, then people will receive higher wages and, if wages are higher and unemployment is low, pensions will also be able to increase. All these things are connected. Of course, it is entirely acceptable if someone thinks differently and says that businesses should be taxed at much higher taxes. In this case, however, it must simply be taken into account that this would affect economic growth and would be a very short-term additional revenue for the state budget. Now, however, I would like to refute a few of the arguments that were made here in the negotiations. Firstly, the claim that corporate income tax and, subsequently, taxation of people's income have a negative impact on the economy. This is not only my argument, but has been argued by the OECD analysis. It's a thorough analysis, and it's worth getting to know. Such taxes, which have a very strong negative impact on growth, are dangerous if the country wants the economy to grow. The second point where I heard a very serious mistake was that it was as if our neighbour Latvia enjoyed a situation where foreign investments were larger than Estonia's. Here, the honourable member of the Riigikogu is confusing something very capitalically, as the number of foreign direct investments in Estonia exceeds those in Latvia about twice per person on average. So it is not difficult to find a year where, even in absolute figures, the amount of investments made in Estonia has been higher than the number of investments made in Latvia with a much higher population than we have. It's done. One very important reason here is probably the favourable tax system of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U156	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U157	The following question is submitted by Mikhail Korb, Tarmo Tamm, Mailis Reps, Valeri Korb, Lauri Laas, Andrei Novikov, Aadu Must, Erki Savisaar, Dmitri Dmitriev and Märt Sults. This concerns the future of the LNG terminal and the Balticconnector. On behalf of the heirs, Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U158	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! On 14 May, I submitted an inquiry on behalf of the members of the Central Party Group concerning the construction of the LNG terminal and the future of the Balticconnector. An inquiry has been submitted a long time ago, even a very long time ago, but it has not lost its topicality, because in that time, perhaps from the time of the questioning to the present day, I have not heard from Finland, perhaps you have any positive news about the construction of the LNG terminal. Namely, about a year ago, there was talk... In fact, this history is much longer, it can be said that it has been said for years that a LNG terminal could be built in Estonia. During the last elections, Mr Parts tried to prove that the best place to build the LNG terminal in the Baltics and the entire region was the Paldiski and Paldiski regions. I guess that's it. However, almost a year ago, our Prime Minister met with the Finnish Prime Minister, his colleague, and they agreed that the LNG terminal would come into Finnish territory and that Finland and Estonia would be connected by a pipe, the Balticconnector, through which frozen natural gas would move, and a smaller-scale terminal would come into Estonia. Finland had to apply to the European Union for 2016. The year 2016 is no longer behind the mountains and we are interested in how these developments have taken place, the state of things. In addition, information has been received that the construction of this terminal is in question in Finland at all. Firstly, the funding allocated by the European Union is a big question, and secondly, it is very easy to get under the ice and it is difficult to get gas there in winter. Therefore, new, more specific details have been identified. That is why the members of the Centre Party Group asked what would happen and asked the Prime Minister questions to which we were waiting for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U159	Please, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U160	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to thank you for this very important theme and for the opportunity to present the positions of the government in Parliament on this subject as well. I agree with the inquisitors that this issue is still topical. Although gas consumption in Estonia is decreasing and is not comparable to electricity consumption in terms of security, for example, it is important that there is security of gas supply in Estonia. The government has taken several steps to increase this security of supply in Estonia. But let's go to questioning questions and answers. The first question: 'What is the current state of the Finnish application and readiness for the construction of a regional terminal? You have admitted that Estonia would be better suited to building a regional terminal. Why was Finland still chosen? ' Under the agreement concluded last November, Finland will have the opportunity to submit an application for funding the work of the regional terminal from the Connecting Europe Facility until the end of next year. Just like you said. If by this time the Finnish developer has not submitted the application, Estonia will have the opportunity to consider submitting the application. The agreement was based on the fact that connecting isolated markets to a larger volume gas market is a priority for the development of the Estonian gas market. It is therefore our priority to establish the Balticconnector connection between Estonia and Finland. A gas market of sufficient capacity is necessary precisely to allow the emergence of a sustainable LNG terminal. It is certainly not conceivable that the Estonian market alone would be sufficient to serve such a large terminal. We know that a LNG terminal has been established in Lithuania. By the way, Estonia also consumes nearly a quarter of the gas that comes from Lithuania via LNG terminal. In order to be able to build either an LNG terminal of similar size to Estonia or Finland, it is very important that the Estonian and Finnish markets are connected. This objective is directly in line with the European Commission's policy of combining markets and not creating isolated areas called energy islands in the European slang. The second question: 'The construction of the Balticconnector is justified by the need to increase energy security. How will Balticconnector increase Estonia's energy security if gas imported from Russia is also used in Finland? ' As I explained in the previous reply, the Balticconnector must be seen first and foremost as an opportunity to connect the Baltic and Finnish gas markets. Despite the fact that Balticconnector does not independently add additional sources of supply, it adds a new supply channel and therefore increases security of supply in the event of infrastructure disruptions. A similar market coupling project is also underway between Lithuania and Poland, the project is called GIPL, or Gas Interconnection Poland, Lithuania. All these efforts serve the same purpose: from Finland to Poland, the combined market is more attractive for investments, including LNG terminal investments, improves gas supply security, creates price competition, and creates the possibility to use jointly previously developed supply solutions in the event of supply difficulties. This means that we are not alone in the event of problems. The dependence of the Finnish gas market on imports of Russian gas alone is in no way a factor that enhances Estonia's security. The Balticconnector is therefore a project that creates new value and opportunities for the entire region. Question 3: 'The Finnish gas company Gasum has a long-term gas supply contract with Gazprom, which is valid until the end of 2025. In recent years the price of gas supplied in Finland has been consistently lower than in Estonia. Why should Finland be interested in building Balticconnector at all if it brings a more expensive price to the Finnish people, because Gazprom is not interested in selling cheap gas through the Finnish gas company? ' Finland has confirmed at all levels that it is interested in the Balticconnector project for these reasons. This was also agreed between the Prime Ministers last November. The exact terms of the Gazprom and Gasum agreements cannot be commented in detail as Prime Minister of Estonia, but on the basis of public sources, I can say that the Finnish gas company Gasum and Gazprom have now reached Stockholm arbitration on the price issue with their differences. Such negotiations would certainly be easier in a situation where the Community's rest of Europe's gas system would also allow competing offers from other suppliers. The Balticconnector, together with the Lithuanian LNG terminal and the Polish-Lithuanian connections, would also create such price arbitrage. Finland does not need to look far for a positive example. The share of gas supplied from Lithuania in the Estonian gas market has reached a quarter already. There is competition on the market, but it has to be acknowledged that there is still a long way to go, and there is a great deal to be won by Finland, just as there is a lot to be won by Estonia. Question 4: "What is the current world market price of LNG compared to the price of pipeline gas sold by Gasum in Finland? ' The world market price of LNG has been statistically higher than the price of pipe gas imported into Finland. However, LNG prices are volatile, and in circumstances where there is an oversupply of LNG production and the US is entering the market in the coming years, it may periodically be cheaper than the pipeline gas related to the price of other fuels from Russia. Currently, the Finnish gas exchange price and northwest European LNG prices are nearly equal. Question 5: 'The establishment of the Balticconnector will cover 75% of the Connecting Europe Facility and the remaining 25% will be distributed equally between Estonia and Finland. Is it true that there was also a possibility on the table that the costs would be shared between Estonia and Finland according to the gas demand of the countries? Why did you give up such a useful option for Estonia? 'The burden-sharing will ultimately be decided by national energy market regulators and, inter alia, the geographical distribution of the socio-economic costs and benefits of the infrastructure project will be taken into account. In Estonia, the power market regulator is known to be the Competition Authority. Question 6: 'Estonia's contribution to Balticconnector is about EUR 25 million. What effect does the construction of Balticconnector have on transmission charges? How much is the cost of gas network charges for consumers? " If the assumptions put forward by the questioners were to be taken into account, this would mean an increase in the network tariff of around 45%, but in the final tariff, if the consumption volumes for 2014 were to be taken as a basis, this would represent a share of 1,5% of the gas price. It can also be taken as a basis that the positive impact on gas prices would be considerably higher because, if you look at the 2009-2014 period, the average gas exchange price in Finland was about five euros per megawatt-hour, i.e. 10% cheaper than the price of gas consumed in Estonia. So this 1.5% increase in the final tariff is still a rather small price compared to the potentially lower gas price as a result of the merger of markets. Of course, there is also a very strong security aspect here. This 1.5% of the price of gas also brings us that no one will be able to use gas supplies against Estonia as a political weapon. I'm sure it's worth something too. Let's say, as a matter of fact, we've already been through this with electricity. Thanks to the fact that there are two very high-quality electricity connections between Estonia and Finland - EstLink 1 and EstLink 2 with a total capacity of 1000 megawatts - the price of electricity in Estonia is considerably cheaper than would have been without these connections. This also gives us a share of Nordic energy. Even if, because of their infrainvestments in Estonia, network charges increased, this increase is very much lower than the positive effect of the fact that the price of electricity is now much more favourable. Latvia and Lithuania have not yet opened their gas markets and electricity is considerably more expensive there than, for example, Estonia or Finland. This parallel, I think, also helps to explain a little why, when making an investment, in fact, the end result is a more favourable price, not to mention that security of supply is much greater than without these connections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U161	Questions. Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U162	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister, first of all, thank you for your answers. I fully agree with you on the need to develop a gas network. As it seems at the moment, when you took a very emotional approach to this issue six months ago, I think that emotions have calmed down a little, and you are taking it very pragmatically. But understand our fears, too. You are the person who negotiated with the Prime Minister of Finland. There is no point and no reason to doubt the words of this person, but maybe in 2016 this statement will not be received by the European Commission. So what's your plan, and what are you gonna do next?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U163	Thank you. First of all, Estonia's primary interest is that we can jointly apply for the establishment of Balticconnector. This is important for both countries. In the event that Finland should unilaterally decide that it does not wish to establish an LNG terminal, however, in any circumstances, this is possible in theory, the agreement states that in this case Estonia is entitled to submit such an application. For Estonia, of course, the terminal makes much more sense when we have a real connection with Finland. Only Estonia's consumption, as I said, although it is not enough to build a large terminal, the more so that gas consumption in Estonia has been on a declining trend for some time. In theory, if Finland should refrain from submitting an application during 2016, we will be able to consider whether we consider it necessary to submit such an application. Perhaps there is a business company in Estonia that is interested in presenting it, and maybe the state will present it then we will have a number of options. In this case, it is important to consider both economic arguments, to see if there is any certainty that the Balticconnector will have a significant impact on the terminal perspective, and to make a well-considered decision on the basis of these specific circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U164	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U165	Thank you! Prime Minister! How far is the development of our local LNG terminal and is it located in Muuga Harbour or must the possibility of the Pakri Peninsula be taken into account? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U166	Thank you. Indeed, it has also been mentioned that several investors have expressed their wish to build smaller terminals, such as bunkering ships. Here, in my opinion, there are opportunities for many companies. We can further clarify whether any of these applications have reached Elering as of now, so that we can say whether a project is already in its development phase. I don't know how to tell you this now, but there really are a lot of options in the perspective. In itself, Paldiski's surroundings or Pakri peninsula are still in its current state without connecting to the overall gas network. Namely, the closest point to Paldiski is where the gas network is located, Kiisa, and there are several tens of kilometres. If we are building a Balticconnector, it is very likely that Paldiski will also be connected to the Estonian gas network. The beginning of the underwater part of the Balticconnector has been planned precisely from the Pakri peninsula you mentioned. However, in principle, a small LNG terminal can be built separately from the network, for example, for bunkering ships only. In that case, it would serve some other interests. This terminal would not be able to provide gas to the network, but it could be used as marine fuel, for example, and it would be possible to recharge gas to cars. Basically, there are many of these possibilities and, to my knowledge, it is all theoretically conceivable in both the Pakri Peninsula and Muuga. As far as I am aware, no final decisions have yet been made, but I have not checked this extra in recent months. To be sure, it should be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U167	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U168	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! There was a brief discussion of security considerations in your answers. This motivates me to ask whether I understood you correctly that there is currently no strategic gas supply on Estonia's territory. If so, is it planned to be created and when?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U169	Thank you. To put it this way, our strategic gas supply is when we have a number of alternative connections and it is possible to obtain gas from different sources of supply that are independent of each other. At present, the gas that Estonia consumes is stored in the Inckalns repository in the territory of the Republic of Latvia, and it is theoretically possible that if something happens with a high-speed connection, Estonia will not really get it. At the same time, in terms of security considerations, I consider Latvia to be a country in a very similar security environment to Estonia, and I believe that this gas supply in Latvia will certainly serve our interests in the future. But yes, indeed, the theoretical possibility is that if anything should happen to the connection, there is this potential problem. The other way around, nor can electricity be stored in batteries as a strategic security reserve. Our strategic security measure is precisely the electricity connections: the fact that Estonia is connected to the Nordic electricity grid, the fact that there are connections between Estonia and Latvia, the fact that we are also establishing a third power line in Latvia in cooperation with the Latvian Elering equivalent, and, of course, the power of electricity generation, which exists independently in Estonia. For example, Latvia does not have enough capacity to survive or only consume electricity produced in Latvia throughout the year, and therefore Estonia is, in a sense, the guarantor of energy security for Latvia as regards electricity connections.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U170	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U171	Good President! Good Prime Minister! From what you are saying, I conclude that gas is not the first place in the security policy in Estonia. You also claimed that gas consumption in Estonia is decreasing. The previous response also revealed that gas has not been collected as a so-called security reserve. There are two sides to my question. Firstly, the Gazprom agreement ends this year. Is there security of supply and under what conditions? Secondly, if gas is not so important in security policy, why did Elering still have to buy this supply network for several million dollars?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U172	Thank you. I got too long to answer the last question. I was about to get to what you referred to in your own question. It is theoretically conceivable that if we create a smaller gas terminal in Estonia, the state will book a security reserve there, for example through Elering. The advantages of this option compared to high-quality connections must be assessed very soberly. In my opinion, the Balticconnector is, in terms of energy security, a greater guarantee for Estonia than the gas stored on the ground, but it is possible that there are different views. I am ready to debate whether it is worth keeping a few weeks' stock in Estonia. Why a few weeks' supply? Because a few weeks is estimated to be the maximum period during which a ship will in any case be able to bring gas from some of Europe's major ports. A higher security margin is generally not considered necessary. That is how I have been explained this matter. The honest answer to the question of whether gas comes first in terms of energy security is that it is rather the second. Electricity comes first. Electricity is significantly higher in our primary energy balance. It is impossible to replace electricity in many forms of consumption, while gas can in principle be replaced by district heating, for example. But if you ask whether gas security is important to Estonia, then it is. It's not the first, you could say it's the second place compared to electricity. But anyway, it's important. In any case, it is important that no supplier can talk to Estonia about the position of power. We do know, and we do know, examples of a Europe where gas has been used as a political leverage. Without exaggeration, it has also been called a political weapon. We do not want to allow this situation to arise. The best guarantee is that we are not only dependent on one source of supply, which is natural gas coming from Russia through the Latvian repository, as we described earlier, but we have alternative connections with Finland and, in fact, via Latvia with Lithuania and Poland. Then we have the confidence that we have alternative sources. In my opinion, it is positive that the terminal set up in Lithuania has already increased Estonia's gas security. As I said, about 25% of the gas consumed in Estonia is actually LNG, which comes from Lithuania. It's very important to know. Should anything happen to the security of gas supply from Russia, it is possible to increase the share of alternative gas channels in Estonia's energy balance. Of course, gas can be replaced in district heating to a certain extent by wood chips, for example, but this is getting maybe a little too specific.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U173	No further questions. Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations, there's no wish for negotiations. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U174	The following inquiry has been submitted by Heimar Lenk, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Andrei Novikov, Märt Sults, Valeri Korb, Mailis Reps, Toomas Vitsut, Mikhail Korb, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Must, Jaanus Karilaid, Martin Repinski, Olga Ivanova, Rein Ratas, Tarmo Tamm and Marika Tuus-Laul, and it concerns the return of property and compensation to tenants during the ownership reform. On behalf of the heirs, Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U175	President-in-Office of the Council. The inquiry was handed over in June, this summer, and its content is the state of return and re-return during the ownership reform, the return to new and old owners. The top question is whether the country will ever compensate for the suffering and financial expenses of tenants, which needed to be done in order to get new housing. This is now a question, ladies and gentlemen, of which one could say directly, that it is a call to the electorate for his people. This is an association of Estonian tenants, this is the organisation that brings together thousands of citizens of the Republic of Estonia who have been evicted from their homes to contact me. The question is how long the property reform will continue. This question is interesting because the property reform has been completed by law and, in my opinion, long ago, but in the summer of this year, I would remind you that an inquiry was also handed over in June, new cases came when, for example, in Harju County, people began to be evicted and their housing started to be returned to someone. This return includes a specific group of owners, once relocated from Estonia as so-called Baltic Germans to Germany. These cases raised serious questions, and then an inquiry was made. This situation continues now, the return is ongoing. I can bring in a bunch of Nõmme and Harjumaa addresses where there have been such returns. The 16 signatories ask, representing the Union of Estonian Tenants, whether the government has finally decided to go to a new "gleaning" and organise a new property reform or its tail, and what will happen to this matter. A particularly important question has been addressed to the Prime Minister in this question. I quote: 'Do you agree with the position of the Union of Estonian Tenants that in the 1990s forced tenants were harmed when their homes were taken away and the state gave nothing to replace them? The tenants were essentially raised to the street and had to buy new housing at market price for their money. " It was very expensive, and it was too much for many. Finally, there is the question of whether the Estonian Government will ever be responsible for this property reform, perhaps the Prime Minister intends to apologize to the tenants, or a bill will be presented to remedy the injustice suffered by the forced tenants in the course of the property reform, both financial and material. That's what this question is about. This is extremely serious, I would say, with very tragic content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U176	The question must be answered by Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U177	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to your inquiry on 10 June on the return of property in the course of the property reform and the payment of compensation to tenants. Question number one: Has the property reform been completed in Estonia? New examples suggest that the return of individual properties to the descendants of former owners is still ongoing. This process is described by the Estonian Tenants' Association as a follow-up to the ownership reform, which seeks to bring the lost fortune back to the market. " The ownership reform, which began at the time of the restoration of independence and culminated in the next decade, has met the objectives set out in the law. Most areas of ownership reform, including privatisation of businesses and housing, agricultural reform and many others, ended more than 10 to 15 years ago. The vast majority of labour-intensive land reform, and mainly the return and compensation of unlawfully disposed assets under it, have also ended. A little over 500 files, or 0.4% of the total, have still been opened from a file of almost 140000 unlawfully disposed assets. They shall contain requirements for which no decision has been taken. The main reason for the cessation of administrative proceedings is the facts relating to the succession, the search for heirs and the proof of the right to succession. Proceedings have also not been closed because of litigation, border disputes, disputes between entitled persons and disputes between local authorities. The law on the basis of which the ownership reform is based allows for an extension of the period until 30 June 2016 and decisions on the compensation of property must be taken by the end of the following year at the latest. Cases relating to legal proceedings or successions may remain in the proceedings for a longer period. A small number of land privatisation operations are also under way and the land will continue to be transferred to municipal property and the land will be left to state ownership. The second question: 'When does the Government of the Republic plan to return the property of displaced persons to Germany, after the annulment of Article 7 (3) of the Oras, cited in the judgments of the Supreme Court, make the necessary new arrangements? The process is currently underway at the level of insufficient competence of officials, in which tenants living in returning homes belonging to displaced persons cannot obtain specific answers from the Commission to their questions. The Supreme Court has referred to the need for such a new regime through several judgments. ' The Supreme Court has made a number of decisions on matters relating to § 7 (3) of the ORAS, but late in the judgment of 10 March 2008, the General Assembly of the Supreme Court took the view that the local committees for the return and compensation of unlawfully disposed assets must start to process the statements made in respect of unlawfully disposed assets belonging to German displaced persons in general. As a result of the decision, the balancing of refund procedures does not require any additional regulation, since the instructions required for the functioning of local committees are included in the positions of the Supreme Court General Assembly. To date, nearly all the claims of migrants have been the subject of the necessary decisions, with the exception of some procedures that have stopped due to litigation and personal data protection requirements. Question 3: "Who do you think should check compliance with § 17 (5) of the Property Reform Act? This section, as we know, obliges the return of houses to displaced persons to check whether or not the former owner has received compensation from Germany. ' Pursuant to § 17 (5) of the Property Reform Foundation Act, a person who is a legitimate subject of a property reform does not have the right to claim the return or compensation of unlawfully transferred property in respect of assets that have already been returned or compensated, unless it has been established that the property has been returned or compensated to another person without a legal basis. Compliance with this provision at the various stages of the procedure shall be subject to control by the Regional Committee on the return and compensation of unlawfully disposed assets, by the municipal authorities carrying out the refund or compensation procedure and by the supervising county governor. The possible early compensation of the property by other countries, in particular the Soviet Union, is controlled by the Regional Commission at the initial stage of the procedure. Question 4: 'Until then, only the City Government of Tallinn has checked the compensation and received reports from the German archives in a number of cases that, in the case of houses that have already been returned to former owners, this has also been a payment of compensation by the German Government. Therefore, the return has not been in accordance with the law. After this judgment, how is it ensured that the return of the assets returned to the migrants complies with Article 17 (5) of the ORAS will be reviewed throughout Estonia and not only in Harjumaa? As we know, assets have been returned to residents in Narva, Pärnu, Tartu, Saaremaa, Viljandi County and elsewhere. ' In order to determine the compensation paid to the so-called after-resettlements pursuant to the Soviet-German Treaty of 1941, the Ministry of Finance submitted a number of aggregated enquiries to the Federal Republic of Germany concerning persons who, according to the documents found in the archives, may have left Estonia on the basis of that agreement and who or whose heirs have submitted claims for the return or compensation of property. The lists drawn up in counties and municipalities contained a total of 242 such persons. For any of the persons listed in the request, the German State Archives did not provide information on the payment of the contractual compensation or the transfer of the replacement assets. According to the relevant legislation and the correspondence of German officials, the replacement assets may have been used by migrants, but they were to be transferred to their property after the expected end of the war for this party. The persons qualified as refugees were not entitled to compensation for the abandoned assets or replacement assets. However, in a number of later cases, the Court held that compensation for solidarity granted to displaced persons and persons arriving as refugees in the Federal Republic of Germany in the post-war period should also be regarded as compensation for the restoration of property. As a result of the judgment, the county committees for the return and compensation of unlawfully disposed assets, as well as the Tallinn City Government, began to submit inquiries to the German Equalisation Payments Archives for the purpose of establishing the payment of solidarity benefits. Question 5: "Are you in agreement with the position of the Union of Estonian Tenants that in the 1990s forced tenants were harmed when their home was taken away and the state gave nothing to replace them? The tenants were essentially raised to the street and had to acquire new housing at market price for their money. While residents of apartment buildings could privatise their apartments. ' I will answer this question and the next question together. I will also read the sixth question: 'When does the government intend to deal with the issue of compensation for injustice and material damage suffered by the families of tenants who have lost their former home in the course of a property reform? As your Prime Minister, has it not occurred to you that you could apologise to the forced tenants on behalf of the Estonian state? This would be followed by a government programme to ensure that the material costs incurred in the course of the injustice are compensated for by the forced tenants. ' Ownership reform is a major structural reform that affected every person in one way or another, which was crucial for Estonia's successful transition from the Soviet social organisation to a free and democratic civil society. We must recognise that the starting position of the various members of our society (Estonian citizens and new residents, urban and rural residents, legitimate and new civil societies) was inevitably different in the process of returning and privatising property. The tenant of the housing to be returned, the owner of the private house, the member of the joint or public holding could not participate in the privatisation of the dwelling on the same terms as most of the residents of the apartment buildings. The latter, in turn, could not privatise the land on just as favorable terms as the owner of the land-based dwelling. Our country had to choose between fast and decisive and therefore simpler solutions and reforms that were finished and balanced to detail, but which required much more time. The first path was chosen. Although, as a former republic of the Soviet Union, we did not start out in the first start line among the liberated socialist countries, Estonia ended the most decisive part of the transition reforms faster than most of our destiny mates. Reform laws were completed and adopted exceptionally quickly compared to today's legislative timeframe. They provided mechanisms to involve as much of society as possible in the reform process and to help mitigate the social repercussions of reforms. Support measures for the resettlement and protection of the rights of residents of returnable rental homes as tenants were also planned. During the initial phase of the transition reforms in 1991-1992, the Government of the Republic handed over almost all the state housing fund to local municipalities, with a view to preparing for the mass privatisation of housing. During the restoration of Estonia's independence, the population of larger cities was expected to decline considerably due to the departure of Soviet troops, officials and their families. The municipalities had to register and privatise the vacant apartments to the tenants of the residential buildings to be returned as a matter of priority. The assessment made in the early 1990's showed that 50%, or some 6,000, of nationalized homes had been preserved by then. This assessment was confirmed by subsequent direct data from local governments and the tenants' association, according to which some 22500 families lived in 5226 returning houses. However, due to the large-scale sale of so-called settlement rights, there were very few vacant apartments left in the cities, especially in Tallinn, and the possibility of offering them to tenants of residential buildings to be returned for privatisation remained largely unrealized. The Act still provides tenants with benefits and the right to buy a new dwelling, funding opportunities for building a dwelling and the right to extend the rental contract for a total period of up to eight years. To the tenants and municipalities of the houses to be returned, the State provided funds for preferential loans, including EEK 507 million, for loans that could be repaid with privatisation bonds, for non-refundable grants as well as for municipal buildings. In 2001-2002 alone, more than 100 million kroons were allocated to the Republic's Government's property reform reserve fund, partly through KredEx, to solve housing problems of tenants living in buildings returned to legitimate owners. The City Government of Tallinn has publicly confirmed that the housing problems of forced tenants in the city have been solved. This seems to be confirmed by the fact that in recent years applications for money have rarely been returned to the needs of tenants of houses. It is possible to compensate for the material damage caused by the State or local government in the course of the ownership reform on the basis of a specific claim for compensation, by proving, in court or out-of-court, the damage and its amount. It is in recent years that a number of long-term property reform disputes have come to an end, resulting in significant compensation by the State to the beneficiaries. Between 2014 and 2015, more than one million euros have been paid in damages from the Government's property reform reserve fund. I understand that the questioners obviously refer not to compensation for damage caused by illegal decisions and transactions during the reform process, but to the legislative revision of the entire reform process and the regularisation of new support or compensation measures. When the tenants' union collects signatures to submit a collective appeal to the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu is competent to deal with the proposals submitted in accordance with the current law. Of course, the Government of the Republic cannot stand by in this debate either, and it will evaluate these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U178	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have questions. Colleagues Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U179	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! You've had a very thorough response drawn up. Well, that was interesting to hear, but unfortunately, you didn't answer the tenants' basic question. I'm asking you to do this now. As Prime Minister of Estonia today, in 2015, do you consider ownership reform to be unfair to tenants and see the need to make material amends to this great injustice?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U180	Thank you. It is quite difficult for me to assess whether the decisions taken more than twenty years ago were the most accurate ones in that time, or whether it could have been done differently in the nuances of the reform. However, I must say that the overall orientation and general principles of this reform were correct and necessary. We must keep in mind, however, that not the power of Estonia in the 1990s, after Estonia's independence had been restored, was not the one who created this injustice. Injustice was caused by the occupying power, who took away their work and hard-built homes from thousands of Estonian people, deprived many of them of their homes, or forced them to give part of their homes to other people, which, if they had earned this home honestly, maybe they built it themselves. Most tragic of all, this power sent a great many of the people who lived in these homes to Siberia or to destruction. It was the injustice that happened. To say that in the 1990's it would have been possible to overlook this screaming injustice and leave the homes that belonged to people or their descendants, built by them or their parents, would not make sense. The vast majority of the assets confiscated by the Soviet occupation power from the Estonian people remained unrecoverable forever, and were lost, if you could say so. No one recovered the shares of the nationalised companies. The valuables that had been taken, no one got back. We also know that a number of illegally disposed houses were destroyed in the next few decades, and they could not be recovered either. So there was a lot of injustice, but it was not caused by the Estonian government 20 or 25 years ago, but by the Soviet occupation power that took their homes away from the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U181	Colleagues Märt Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U182	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! That was really crazy listening to what you just said to Heimari. I mean, it wasn't about making up for injustice, it was more like a business project. In general, do you have any statistics on how many of these people who have been subjected to injustices now own a property, land or apartment or a piece of land that has been privatized or returned to justice, and how many people have sold these properties, how many intermediaries there have been, etc.? That's the first part of the question. Now the other side. I went to the first, second and third courts of Estonia with 40 forced tenants, whose concerns I assumed, where they all received a negative answer. Then I went to the European Court of Justice, personally posted the application in Stockholm, because I did not trust the Estonian Post. Then there was a break for a year and a half, and the answer came from the European Court of Justice, where the Estonian advisor replied that one paper was missing. There's still a conspiracy theory that it's some kind of business project, and there's some kind of criminal smell in it. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U183	Thank you. You see, when a man builds a home for himself and his family, but foreign power takes it illegally, I believe that this person has the right to return his home because he has been wronged. If the person who founded this home is no longer among us, his heirs will have that right. It makes perfect sense. Whether the heirs live in that house or decide to rent or sell property that they have ever taken away from their parents is ultimately their decision. The state cannot oblige anyone to live in a house belonging to his ancestors. However, the state can help to compensate, even partially, for the injustice caused by the foreign power to the parents of these people. You may not like it, although I do not understand why your understanding of this matter is so different. But I stress once again that most of the assets that the occupying power took away from the Estonian people were not returned forever. Very many Estonian people had businesses, factories, factories, shops and smaller businesses created with their work and effort. All of them were taken away, most of them destroyed. The descendants of these people did not get back the shares of these companies because they no longer existed. This is, by the way, one of the reasons why Estonia's standard of living is not yet comparable to that of Finland. We know that in 1939, before the Soviet occupation, Estonia's GDP was even a speck ahead of that of Finland, and Estonians lived a little more affluently than Finns. The fact that, in the meantime, the foreign power that took away their property from the Estonian people has, of course, seriously hampered Estonia's economic growth prospects for the coming decades. It's perfectly clear. If you look at large companies in the Nordic countries or Western Europe, you will see that very many large companies have been owned by families for an uninterrupted period of time. In Estonia, this ownership relationship was interrupted; the Estonian person was deprived of the opportunity to further develop his grandfather's company. Therefore, in Estonia, we can now speak of second-generation entrepreneurs who can continue to work for their fathers. Unfortunately, we have no one who can say that his family business has been able to operate consistently in Estonia for longer than a few generations, because the companies owned by his grandfathers were illegally disposed of. It was injustice.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U184	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U185	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! You're not talking about it. I'll tell you what's going on. My parents were evicted from their homes in 1944, and officers of the occupying forces were stationed there. I know through my parents what eviction is. But it was the occupying power. I have a victim of a property reform law at home right now. This is my father-in-law, who is 83 years old now. He evicted the Republic of Estonia. The law on the basis of the ownership reform states that injustice must be remedied without creating any new injustice. However, the Republic of Estonia has created new injustices for thousands of people. As your Prime Minister, do you not think that the thousands and thousands of people who do not have descendants and who cannot afford to spend their old age decently should not receive public support so that they can spend their last days in a retirement home? In this way, the state could make up for the injustice that the Republic of Estonia has done to these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U186	Thank you. Once again, we are talking about a time that goes far enough back. But I think we're all in this room today, a few decades from making these choices later, we realize how difficult those choices were back then. The state had to decide whether to perpetuate the injustice that the Soviet rule had caused the people of Estonia and to perpetuate the situation in which people had taken their homes or to give back these homes and help those who had in the meantime settled in these homes to find a new home. That was the choice. Believe me, I'm having a hard time telling you this, but I think we can all imagine how difficult that choice of decision-makers at the time was. As regards the granting of specific additional benefits to former forced tenants, the Riigikogu is theoretically able to take legislative initiative, but I dare to doubt whether this is the most appropriate way to compensate for this injustice caused by Soviet power. If you have any specific proposals, the government is, of course, ready to discuss them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U187	Thank you, Prime Minister. No further questions for you. I would like to ask my colleague in the chair, Heimar Leng.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U188	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! I would recommend to you for the future that you answer the questions specifically based on the papers prepared for you in the ministries. Do not improvise on topics and times you do not know or know. You don't seem to know anything about ownership reform. But I don't blame you. I just want to remind this hall of this property reform, where, according to the tenants' association, there were about 100,000 sufferers, perhaps even 150,000 or 200,000, if we also count families and relatives, who all literally survived the roadlifting. Mart Helme named his relatives here, but I stand before you as the man who walked out of his home in Nõmme, raised on the street with the suitcases in my hand. There's a picture of it in the Evening Paper. That's how the property reform went. There is no word or question in my question as to the injustice of the Soviet Union. No one has argued against this; at that time, these dwellings were nationalized. But I must remind you, Prime Minister, that the forced tenants I am defending from this remote control have been granted absolutely official housing by the power in force at that moment. That there was an occupation, that's another question. A man, specifically a forced tenant, was not responsible for this. He lived there until 1991 when we started evicting our own people. Among the tenants is a very good expression: 'Stalin deported us, gave us a few or three hours, but the tenants were given a couple or three weeks to put their bags together and leave. " There was no free housing at the time, the apartment had to be bought at a very high price. Now for some clarification. Prime Minister, don't ever concretize things you don't know. According to our data, the Estonian state has not helped any forced tenants either with compensation or with the purchase of apartments. We do not have any examples of this. Yes, indeed, the owners were helped in renovating and renovating these houses. It really did happen. KredEx benefits were minimal. You said the EVPs got the tenants to privatize the apartment. It lasted a few months after my memory. Mart Siimann's government was relatively tolerant, understood the complexity of this matter and took this decision to help these people a little bit, a preferential loan was granted. But it only lasted a few months. Mart Laar's government came back. I was then at a press conference, where the first question was his property reform, still to be tightened up. Thousands of people were moved to the street. There's a lot of film about it, there's sheet material. So, good Prime Minister, don't talk in the future about things you don't know. Tell me what the councillors have written to you. This was a very constructive response, and there was a great deal of new information. It turns out that this situation and the property reform were even worse and more criminal than we may have known so far. Today, the new young advisers have taken out some archive papers and accidentally brought them to the public. I would like to say that the Reform Party is involved in major affairs with a large port scandal, and during its coverage, the Estonian press called ownership reform the most serious corruption in the history of the Republic of Estonia. This statement also appeared in the media in recent weeks. So that's the deal. Mr. Prime Minister, please answer, I may also make a new inquiry, do you condemn the fact that over 100000 Estonian people who had fought, stood in the Baltic Way, were in the singing revolution in the singing field, were raised to the streets after their country came? We wanted to hear an answer, but you're not gonna be able to give it. Go home tonight and think about it. Maybe in the future, we'll talk about it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U189	Thank you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U190	Mr President! Mr. Prime Minister! Colleagues, of course! The Prime Minister's speeches from this remote area raise more questions than they give answers. I understand, yes, that you think it's all about the occupying power, but some questions still arise. One of the reasons for the emergence of forced tenants was that one government decided to return their property to the Baltic Germans, and we could do so and we could not do so. It was our will. The politician who decided this usually said it was our political will. And that was political will, 50,000 people got rid of the apartment. Please explain to me the connection between the occupation and the occupation, without adjectives, and the decision of the then government to return this property to the Baltic Germans. I don't think there's any connection. You just took and left 50,000 people without a place to live. You long told me that before 1940, people had industrial plants, shops, and other things that were all destroyed. I don't just feel sorry for them. My grandfather had a booth. He was a well-known shoemaker in Tartu, a master who did individual work. For 12 years in the Gulag camps, he got away with sewing boots and shoes for the camp bosses. Came back, everything was destroyed. But please tell me, if in the 1990s we received, apart from all these occupation problems, as you call them and brought them upon us, ports, shipyards, power plants, huge amounts of real estate and all sorts of factories, why did no one think that there were still people who had lost their property in 1940 and 1944! Why were they not returned to that extent? So where were you? You watched as one of the car base bosses somehow became the host of this car base. You watched as a factory manager became its owner. You watched calmly as one of the kolkhozes got the general property of this collective farm, which was left over by the Osnovnye fondõ, I'm sorry, I don't know how it is in Estonian. Why, then, could justice not be established? Is it the occupation that's to blame? After all, all this was made by Estonian politicians. The problem is, every politician wanted as much for himself, for himself, for himself! Look who's running our economy right now! Those who were then in power, in the late 1980s and in the early 1990s, those who made the law, mostly former ministers. So there are still more questions, and these questions are, I'd say, deadly. You know, in the fourth and fifth centuries after Christ's birth, there was a Christian sect in Palestine. Its members saw the purpose of life in order to be killed. You just walked around the mountains, you met some people, you gave him a knife or an axe, and you said this person had to kill him. Really, I didn't think of anything, there was this kind of cult. If that person refused, he was the one who was killed. I think you're a member of this cult. Each of your answers raises questions that are just deadly. The question is that there was absolutely no heart in the 1990s. Yes, the privatisation agency was, but the desire to return to the Estonians and representatives of other nations who suffered their property or to give the same amount of property that had been created by its power at that time, as it did not.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U191	Would you like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U192	Thank you. I don't know, it's just a conversation between us forever. The only thing that excuses you is that in the 1990s, you only smoked around the corner of the school.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U193	There are no more requests for negotiation. Would the Prime Minister like to speak in response? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U194	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I was very surprised when I listened to what you were saying and what might have worked as an excuse for the Soviet occupation. I hope you didn't mean it like that. I very much hope that when Heimar Lenk settled in Nõmme, a house built during Estonia, he thought at least for a moment about the people from whom this home had been taken away, he wondered what their destiny was. The fact that hundreds of thousands of people had to leave their homes in one way or another, I stress, was injustice caused by Soviet power in the 1940's. In my opinion, it is inappropriate to accuse the Estonian Government of doing so after the restoration of independence. Yes, Mikhail Stalnukhin is right that I went to school at the time. I could shrug my shoulders because I didn't decide to do these things, let it be. But I cannot watch the injustice being done to the government at the time, who, as I said, was probably faced with very difficult choices, who knew and understood when making these decisions that they were not at all popular and that two injustices must choose what seems smaller. The government that was then in office did not have easy choices on this issue. I hope you'll understand when you're excruciating them afterwards. Finally, I will tell Mikhail Stalnukhin that I do not belong to a cult or smoke in my life.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U195	Thank you. We've discussed the fourth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U196	Let's go to the fifth question. This is an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu, Priit Toobali, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korbi, Toomas Vitsuti, Mailis Repsi, Märt Sultsi, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Lauri Laasi, Andrei Novikov, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Tarmo Tamme, Olga Ivanova, Martin Repinski and Erki Savisaare into administrative reform. On behalf of the inquisitors, please speak to Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U197	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The government coalition has identified as one of its main objectives the implementation of state reform, including administrative reform concerning local governments. The political leadership of the reform has been entrusted to you by the government coalition, Prime Minister. A new position of Minister of State Administration has been established in the government. At the meeting of the Government of the Republic on 14 May, a discussion was held on the initiation and timing of the reform. Commenting on this subject to journalists, fresh Minister Arto Aas said that laws on administrative reform should be passed in the Riigikogu in 2016. The municipalities will then have the opportunity to join voluntarily until the 2017 local elections. After the elections, on the basis of the criteria developed, the government proposes a merger, or coercion, between the municipalities that have not voluntarily put their bread in one closet. The Minister of State Administration mentioned two general criteria which must be met by the managing and providing good services: the existence of at least 4500.5000 inhabitants and upper secondary school. Journalists did a simple arithmetical operation and stated that there will be 50 municipalities in Estonia after the administrative reform. In the course of the state reform, the government coalition plans to mobilise a total of 3,200 public administration employees over a period of four years. So far, however, there is no clarity as to how this concentration is divided between public administration and local administration. Nor has the government coalition's government administration plan been published at regional and county level, including possible changes concerning rural governments. Prime Minister, we have four questions for you, and we would be pleased if you would answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U198	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U199	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank you for this much-needed raise and for the opportunity to present the government's positions on administrative reform issues and to give an overview of what we have achieved with the preparations to date. I will respond to your inquiry on 10 June. Question 1: 'How do you think the principles of local administration reform carried out by the government coalition are in line with the principles of the European Charter for Local Government? Who of the European experts on local democracy have you involved in preparing for the reform? " In choosing the content and principles of the local government reform, we follow the principles of the nature and governance of the local government and the guarantees of the local government as laid down in the legislation. The local government's ability to manage and organise local life must go hand in hand with rights and obligations, i.e. the municipality must have real capacity and the resources and competence necessary to do this in order to be responsible for the performance of its tasks. Local authorities play a key role in providing people with daily services at local level, but it is important to remember that, apart from providing services, the role of local authorities is to exercise public authority and ensure democracy. Together, these roles serve the purpose of the functioning of the local government, which is the well-being of the population. A number of experts from local government and local democracy, such as Professor Georg Sootla from Tallinn University, Mikk Lõhmus from Tallinn University of Technology and experts from local government associations with long-term experience, have contributed to the preparation of the reform of local government in the expert committee led by the Minister of State Administration: from the Estonian Cities Union Jüri Võigema and the Estonian Association of Rural Governments Märt Moll, who have experience in participating in the work of the Committee of the Regions of the European Union and also in the work of the Congress of Local and Regional Municipal Governments of the Council of Europe. In addition, there are ministerial officials involved in the preparation of the reform, including those with long-term experience of participation in the work of the Council of Europe's Committee on Local and Regional Democracy and the European Committee on Democracy and Governance. The second question: Do and how do you involve local authorities and their alliances in developing the basis for reform, the criteria? What views and opinions have you received from them? 'The representatives of the national self-government associations are involved in the work of both the expert panel on local government reform and the government committee headed by the Prime Minister. During the summer, meetings were held in eight counties with county elders, county councils and local government leaders, where officials of the Ministry of Interior introduced the timetable and principles of local government reform. The leaders of both national and county self-government associations have given wide-ranging feedback. The need for reform is widely perceived in every region of Estonia. Feedback and proposals have largely touched on the process and stages of the reform. Much of the proposals address the criteria underpinning the reform and possible new challenges to be met after the reform. The third question: 'What are the government's plans on the matter of county administration? Do you intend and how you intend to increase the role of municipalities and their county associations in the decision-making process concerning the comprehensive development of the county? Are and what functions will rural governments be left to perform? ' In the first phase of the administrative reform to implement the reform of local government by 2018, the Action Plan of the Government Union has agreed to reorganize this part of the tasks of rural governments, which includes modernising the supervision of local governments and harmonising the divisional and territorial management of the county. The Government's revised work plan has been agreed as follows: In order to strengthen the cooperation of municipalities in the performance of their tasks at regional level, an integrated body allowing horizontal coordination in each county will be set up. The aim is to transfer self-government tasks from rural governments to joint institutions or, in the case of sufficient size and capacity, also directly to municipalities. In the preparation of changes in these areas and further discussions, the principle is that the municipal functions of rural governments, the nature of which allows them, are transferred to local governments or the cooperation body of local authorities and the organisation of the supervision of the county government is reorganized in order to carry out the functions of public authorities, in particular the functions of administrative and state supervision. Discussions have taken place in expert panels, but decisions to make concrete proposals to the government committee have not yet been taken. Question 4: Which areas of public administration do you intend to focus most on? To what extent does the public sector's personnel section concern local authorities? ' The government's aim is to make the government sector more efficient. In a context of declining employment, it is our desire to avoid a shortage of hands in the private sector due to the public sector in order to support the long-term sustainability of the economy. In order to ensure that the maintenance of the general government does not become a greater burden on the private sector, the reduction in the working-age population also requires a reduction in the number of employees in the general government by an average of 1% or 700-800 employees per year. At the same time, due to increased labour competition and competitive wage pressures, the government's objective is to raise government employees' wages in line with the general increase in productivity in society. These objectives can only be achieved on a sustainable basis through fundamental reforms in the activities of the sectors and in the organisation of the institutions. The contribution of all ministries to achieving the objectives is very important. A general austerity trend of 1% per year on average could also be followed by the local government sector, but the government cannot make mandatory provision for local authorities in which areas to reduce the number of employees and labour costs, as this would undermine the local government's right of self-regulation. Activities and areas for saving must be analysed by local authorities themselves and, where possible, savings must also be applied. For example, it is possible to consolidate support services, use common public procurement or also create IT environments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U200	Thank you. Prime Minister, there are questions for you. Colleague Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U201	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! Don't you think we're hopelessly late for administrative reform? Neighbors have made great progress in this area, too. In Lithuania, the county is one municipality and in Latvia the state reduced the number of municipalities from 500 to 100. Let's not talk about Finland, Denmark and Sweden. Without pressure from the state, these reforms have not been carried out anywhere. If the municipality reform had been carried out, we should not be talking today about the education reform that the state wants to do independently of the municipalities. This should have been the responsibility of the local governments. If I look at this reform programme, this is about the number of municipalities and 5 000 people in the municipality, but it is planned that only by 2020 will it be possible to foresee what functions local governments will have and how they will be financed. Isn't there something backwards here? First, there should be tasks and funding, and then the number of municipalities. But you've got it all backwards. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U202	Thank you. Agreeing politically on the details of such a major reform is, after all, a difficult task. This has been demonstrated in Estonia's recent past. Several governments, who have very seriously wanted to move forward with this reform, have been entangled behind the failure to agree on the details of the form in which reforms will take place. True, it has to be said that the many times that the Centre Party has been in government over the last few decades, according to my memory, the issue of administrative reform has not been on the table very actively. But that's it. I consider it important that, at the moment, the three political parties have been able to understand and agree, through heated disputes that we all believe in, on the implementation of the reform. I suppose that's a compromise too. I'm sure one party would like to do the same thing and the other a little differently, but basically, we have agreed on important things, and I believe that this reform will be a viable one. In itself, I am pleased that this is not just a matter for coalition parties. A number of local government leaders are involved in the discussions, and the government committee that I chair also sits at the table right next to me by the representative of the local governments of your party and thinks very actively and constructively. I'm happy for that. It doesn't have to be that it's an internal matter of the government union. We are also happy to involve those representatives of the local governments, such as the union of cities and rural governments, who represent the opposition within the meaning of the Riigikogu. There's nothing wrong with that either. In Estonia, almost all political parties represented in the parliament are in power in one municipality or another, and they all have their own ideas on how to proceed with this reform. I am pleased that, as your opposition party, too, you do not dispute the need for this reform, but you are asking completely legitimate and reasonable questions about the details. The details are always the most important, and the most difficult is to agree on them. As far as the criteria are concerned, we have tried very seriously to build on the services provided by the municipalities. You would receive even more detailed answers from the Minister for Public Administration, but I have encountered in the Committee on Government that we have looked at the areas of activity of one or the other self-governing service. These areas tend to be such that the majority of the municipality's functions can be performed if the municipality's size is at least 4500-5000 people. Such a municipality is able to provide most of the services. Some services are those which should then be provided by a joint institution, for example at the county level (waste management, public transport management outside the municipality's borders, etc.). But in the case of lion's share of services, education services, social services, the co-operation area tends to be about 5,000 inhabitants. From there it has come 5,000, it has not been taken from the ceiling, several studies have come to this conclusion. These studies have also been presented in the Committee of Government. I am absolutely sure that if, for example, you call on the Minister for Public Administration to present this issue either before the committee or before the plenary, he can speak more clearly about these studies. We do not yet have a final decision that this quantitative objective will be at all. However, all qualitative objectives are moving towards a minimum size of around 5 000 inhabitants, which does not mean that municipalities could not join as a much larger entity than it should be geographically or otherwise justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U203	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U204	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Today, you and Minister Aas are responding to a total of four inquiries into the reform of the local government. We would have liked to have seen them before. But because they are planned today, we conclude that the government has agreed on something. I couldn't quite figure it out from previous questions and your performance. But Minister Asa's interview in today's paper will also help. I'm asking for more than 5,000 inhabitants. I understand that this is both your position and his position. Do you still mean the area of cooperation you mentioned or the size of the municipality as such? Question two. Minister Aas mentioned the term 'osavald'. Will a change be made to the model of ownership by abandoning the regional council of cooperation? If it is transferred, what role will its council or council play? Is there no danger that the representative community will retreat to the administrative body of Tallinn's districts, which actually has no role to play?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U205	Thank you. There were now quite a few questions. With regard to whether I could have talked about it earlier, I did not fully understand the reproach. This is the first sitting since the beginning of Parliament's season, when it will be possible to answer this question. Indeed, this question has already been made in June, but we have not, in the meantime, just met face to face in Parliament on Mondays, so that is the answer before you today. Personally, I have no obsession with this size. I have been open to the views of experts and I can say that this has come out of the experts' views at a minimum of 5 000. We are still talking about the size of the municipality, not the area of cooperation or the area of activity. As I said, for example, waste disposal or public transport should still be organised across municipalities if, for example, the municipality has an average of 5 000 people. We have foreseen that the level of rural government could be created and not only could be created, but that it would be the creation of regional intermodal institutions, which have a role, an opportunity and a legal basis, in order to take on the organisation of such jointly organised self-governing services. As far as the divisions are concerned, the issue here is precisely the most local democracy at grassroots level, and sometimes also in such very practical matters that, for example, in some places the merger of municipalities has so far been behind the fact that it has not been possible to form an informal city with sufficient rights. Let it be appreciated by others how many emotions there are, how much else. But of course, I understand that when a city joins several rural municipalities, it wants the historic role of the city to be preserved in one way or another. Granting a legal right in order that there may be a town inside the municipality with certain rights, but who actually belongs to a larger municipality and does not necessarily have to have a separate council, but may also have certain roles at this level, seems reasonable in itself. As far as the administrative collections of Tallinn or the districts of Tallinn are concerned, here we agree, at least I have understood previous conversations in this way. After all, I myself have been a district manager, and for several years in the Haaberst administrative body, both a member of the administrative body and the chairman of the administrative body. My experience tells me that Tallinn's administrative councils worked quite well until the district governments listened to them. These were actually quite practical bodies where, for example, detailed plans could be discussed, topics discussed with the community, educational arrangements discussed. They worked perfectly well. But the problem arose when the sole power of one party arose in Tallinn, and the role of the administrative councils became completely formal. Unfortunately, it is possible to interpret the law in such a way that the administrative body of the district is only an advisory body for the district governor, which, according to the experience of the last ten years, must be acknowledged, is not sufficient. It might be worth considering that the decisions of Tallinn's administrative councils are also binding on the district elders. In my opinion, this would increase local democracy. Urban administrative bodies may not have a place of discussion now on all issues, but, for example, detailed plans and certain educational issues could be those where binding powers of decision are exercised by administrative bodies, at least for the district elders.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U206	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U207	Thank you, manager. Good Prime Minister! You have pointed out that in your discussions and guidelines you are following the current legal order. At the same time, it should be noted that social organisation and living arrangements have changed. Municipalities are a little concerned about our-know-better-style behaviour, but municipalities expect a dialogue on administrative reform, because the expectations of changing the organisation and organisation of society are actually high. Perhaps there is also a solution to a coalition that cannot reach any agreement: perhaps it would be wise to have a dialogue with local authorities and communities on a white page to find the right way of social organisation and rational functioning of society.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U208	Thank you. On the contrary, I made it clear that the government union had reached an agreement on the form in which the municipal reform would take place, and I also said that we wanted to do so in close cooperation with the local governments and local government leaders. As I said, eight counties have also introduced the principles of reform on the ground. In addition, representatives of local governments are involved in all major reform decision-making bodies, whether they are a government commission or a panel of experts meeting with the Minister of Public Administration. It makes perfect sense to me that the government puts the principles of reform on the table, but discusses them with local governments and society at large. In my opinion, too, it was very right and necessary for a number of members of the Centre Party to submit this question. I'm really glad we can talk about this. It is clear that this debate will continue in the Riigikogu even if we submit a draft law to Parliament in the spring of next year. Well, by the spring of next year, this law should be passed by now, in the first half of next year, if I remember correctly. At the latest, yes, on 25 February, we want to approve it in the government and submit it to Parliament next year. It is likely that society will have a more detailed debate about what the principles of administrative reform are and how to implement them exactly. By then, these things will have to be much clearer. Now we're talking about general principles, but then we're going to the details. I would be very surprised if there were no proper parliamentary debate on this issue. This debate, I think, is very reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U209	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U210	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! The coalition has put very high hopes of administrative reform and the merger or merger of local governments. However, the practice of municipalities that have recently joined shows that this does not automatically lead to any financial savings or staff cost savings. Municipalities and local government associations have been stressing for years that it would be much more important to restore their revenue base to ensure their capacity. Don't you think that's what we should actually start with, not just hope that it's just a wand of magic?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U211	Thank you. I do not know what specific municipalities you referred to when you mentioned that the reform has not met the objective. I have talked to a number of local government leaders who have been local government leaders at the time of and after accession. I dare say that most of the experience has been positive after all. For example, we take the most recent merger when the three villages of Saaremaa joined the municipality of Lääne-Saare. There, true, was no purpose since the beginning, as far as I know, of the financial savings. The aim was better public service for the people of the municipality. In fact, the number of rural municipality employees did not decrease, but this relatively small municipality was able to recruit three people who were involved in substantive work, instead of three employees providing support services, who are helping to provide the services in their own right. So most of the rural municipality's staff is now dealing with the actual provision of services to people. On the spot, it was assessed that this was a step in the right direction. At the same time, I know that the leaders of this municipality also think that if the whole of Saare County were one municipality or at least the whole part of Saaremaa here is the question of whether Muhu Island should be separate or not there would be one municipality, then the result would be even better. That is the conviction of these people. I think they're probably right if they think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U212	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U213	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I would like to ask about the administrative reform how it works in Tallinn, whether it is a forward-looking activity. You were talking about administrative collections earlier. It was not the Centre Party that turned the administrative bodies into an advisory body, but it was a bit different political parties. How do you justify the state writing to Tallinn, the largest municipality, how many members must be on the council? You'll raise that number to 79, then you'll lower it to 51. I don't know if you'll be up to 160 soon. Is there any justification here, or is that just putting away the biggest local government?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U214	Thank you. All Estonian municipalities must be delivered within the framework of the laws in force in Estonia. Of course, the laws also apply to the largest municipality. As regards the advisory role of administrative bodies, it is my personal view that they could at least have binding decision-making powers on certain issues and that the district elders should not simply be able to ignore them. I agree, in principle, that once the practices are in place, the law can also be left unchanged and given the opportunity to continue with the current regime. In the past, it has happened that if there has been good enough cooperation with the district manager, the district manager has not rolled over the advisory body. It's possible. For the last ten years, however, it has been shown that Tallinn's district elders do not generally take seriously what the administration recommends, and that is why I believe administrative bodies have been marginalised. It is true that I have not been a member of any administrative body myself in recent years, but thanks to my colleagues, I have a fairly good overview of the role of administrative bodies. I can therefore confirm that the current situation is not what a local democracy might want. I know that there are quite a number of people in this hall who have been in the administrative body in Tallinn at one time or another, and so have you, if I am not mistaken. One might think that these people will come together in their spare time without significant compensation. I think it's relatively demotivating when they know that a district manager is not very interested in what they decide or do not decide there. Although, for example, in Northern Tallinn and Haabersti, there are local people who, according to the rules of the administration, they must also be a group of people who are concerned and concerned about the development of the district. A wise district elder would actually listen to the administration. That's my opinion of the thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U215	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U216	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! What will the role of the counties be during your planned administrative reform? Do you consider that two-level governance is necessary, or is it a plan to abolish this functionally lost structure and give more powers to self-government associations, for example, to solve cross-municipal issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U217	Thank you. I actually touched it once in my answer. But let it be said that, yes, we will see the possibility in the future of transferring some of the self-government tasks more to municipalities or also to community institutions established by local governments, so that rural governments can be reformed into supervisory bodies where the national supervisory side functions. We know that in Harju County as well as in Tartu County government has assigned quite a number of tasks to municipalities, such as the provision of various social services. I think that if local governments across Estonia have sufficient capacity and also set up joint institutions to provide self-governing services, this opportunity could be given to them and could be taken in this direction. We already have the experience of Tallinn and Tartu. Larger municipalities have done quite well in carrying out these specific tasks.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U218	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U219	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! The aim of any reform is, in fact, to improve people's living environment. You are saying that the focus of administrative reform is currently on the summation and the formal number of 5,000. Let me give you an example from Läänemaa. The parish of Valu, Risti and Taebla joined the parish of West Nigula. The result was that an upper secondary school was immediately shut down to get the money from the Ministry of Education to renovate primary school. This is one example. It can certainly be said that the living environment is worse if there is no upper secondary school level in the municipality. But I still wonder how this environment will be improved, from the point of view of knowing that we have over 50,000 economic refugees. In particular, from outside Harjumaa people have gone to work in Finland, Sweden or Norway because of low wages. What mechanisms do you create to make the municipality more able to contribute to job creation after carrying out the administrative reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U220	Thank you. All the expert analyses I have been able to read on this subject clearly show that, at least up to a certain point, a larger municipality has a better chance of providing public services than a smaller one. On the other hand, these analyses show that there is a minimum size below which it is actually impossible to expect the municipality to provide a high-quality service for all municipal services. It's a reality. There are quite a few municipalities in Estonia where less than a thousand people live and which are tiny. When municipalities join forces, it offers better opportunities. As far as reforms in the education system in Läänemaa are concerned, if quite frankly now, or if these municipalities were separate, the sustainability of their upper secondary school would not really be better. We all understand that very well. I think that it is also in the interests of the people of Läänemaa, especially in a situation where distances have decreased in terms of time, because there are more opportunities to travel by means of transport than decades ago than there is one very high-quality state gymnasium in Haapsalu. I've been talking to school kids in Haapsalu asking if they like to study in Haapsalu. There were young people living in Haapsalu and those from surrounding municipalities. The feedback I received was positive. They said they liked this school, the school's quality of education is good. They did not say that they should necessarily keep alive those upper secondary schools whose future is dark because there are simply not enough children in the area. That's the thing. When municipalities join, it is actually much easier to run a school together than it is for everyone individually.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U221	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U222	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! As regards the previous answer, I think it is quite premature to talk today about some figures and operate on the number of inhabitants of a municipality, claiming that municipalities with fewer than 5 000 inhabitants would not be able to provide services if, in 2020, you put in place the services that municipalities would have to offer. It's kind of early to talk about these services today. My question, however, also concerns rural governments, as is the question of my colleague Erki Savisaare. I support the fact that the functions of the county administration, which are characteristic of the local government, should be transferred either to the local government or to the local government association and these organisations should be strengthened. The supervisory function should remain at national level. Is it wise in the future to leave these supervisory bodies, whether they are under the county government or some other name, county-based, or would it actually be wise to divide them into regions? So, what role does the mayor have?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U223	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U224	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I ask specifically about increasing the local government's income base, which would ensure greater financial autonomy. You said that after the reform has been carried out, you will examine the possibility of increasing the fine-tuning fund. At the moment, local governments are offered a one-off allowance, at least in the design, if they join on a voluntary basis. Who, then, will guarantee the municipalities that they will continue to receive some additional funding for their income base after the reform has, in principle, already been completed? What can we do to prevent it from ending with the smaller carrot that is now being given, so that they will not receive anything later, as is the current situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U225	Thank you. I'll start at the end. It is certainly not a situation where municipalities receive nothing at the moment. Municipalities still have a revenue base and these amounts have increased quite rapidly from year to year. That's one. But I specifically said that we have an agreement in the government union to increase the fine-tuning fund. We have not yet agreed on all the details, but there is a clear readiness. If the reform succeeds, the structure of Estonian municipalities will change considerably. As a result, we need to look at the rules of the Equalisation Fund to see which municipalities qualify and to what extent. This issue needs to be addressed, and we have agreed that we will do so. Among other things, we are based on how to change the equalisation fund formula in such a way that the creation of jobs in local governments is more motivated.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U226	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U227	Thank you. We have agreed that, in the first phase, we will deal specifically with the merger of municipalities and the assignment of self-governing tasks to the cooperation bodies that will be established in each county. Whether and which country governments must remain in the country can be decided at the next stage. With regard to being stuck in numbers, when you listened attentively to me, you noticed that I replied to Andres Herkel that I had never had any obsession with this particular number, neither today. I'm still open to expert judgment. These studies, which Arto Aas has also introduced to me, have come to the conclusion that most of the municipal services can be provided if there are a certain number of residents when analysing the services and the size of the service areas. Actually, it's a number, if I remember correctly, 4500. This 5000 is slightly rounded up, generally speaking from a range of 4500 to 5 000, which enables the service to be provided in a sustainable manner. That's the logic. It's not from the ceiling, it's not because nobody likes the 5,000. Nor should it be so absolute that, if, for example, some very clear logic comes to the belief that the 4700 people in the field are the best solution in one particular corner of Estonia, then the state should automatically say that no, in any case it does not fit. We have so many opportunities, however, that we can also approach individually and some exceptions, how to say, to deal independently. This opportunity should, in my opinion, be included in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U228	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U229	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You have said many times today that the instruments and tasks should be consistent. During the time of the recession, funding changed considerably, and this quality service is not linked to money. If things change now, can we hope that funding will also improve? A naked merger doesn't make things any better.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U230	Thank you. It is true that, compared to the boom time, the rate of income tax that goes to the municipalities is slightly lower. On the other hand, as incomes have increased very rapidly and unemployment has decreased very rapidly, it can be said that the sums received by local governments have increased quite rapidly. But the specific answer to the specific question is that we have agreed in the coalition that, after the reform, a fine-tuning fund could be increased, helping those municipalities that need more support. We have agreed that we will review the rules of the Equalisation Fund very carefully and wonder whether they can be changed in such a way that the amount of the Equalisation Fund does not depend so much on whether the municipality is making efforts to create jobs. At present, these amounts have a slightly demotivating effect, to say the least, on job creation. There are certain ideas in the government union on how to change it. There is one way to extend with reference, but this explanation is already going to be very detailed. However, yes, we want to review the rules of the Equalisation Fund in detail during the reform. This is also due to the fact that, if the reform succeeds, the structure of the municipalities will change significantly and consequently the fine-tuning fund will be distributed among other municipalities as it has so far. We have also decided that the fine-tuning fund could be significantly increased. Arto Aas has submitted an additional request to increase the compensatory fund for the following year, but we now have a valid agreement that we will increase the compensatory fund once the reform has been implemented. As we succeed, we are already going to review these rules precisely, and we are going to give more money. It seemed more reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U231	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U232	Good President! Good Prime Minister! I understand very well the meaning of administrative reform, the concentration of rural municipalities and everything else involved. As a rural fan, however, I ask whether you feel that this will also lead to a reduction in jobs in rural areas and a certain concentration in the centres of attraction. Indeed, the few jobs that are now there will disappear from the country. On the one hand, it's understandable, but on the other hand, it's kind of like a power plug to help people get out of the country faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U233	Thank you. Let's think about the jobs that could theoretically disappear. These are specifically related to administrative functions. At the same time, I think that the example of the municipality of West Island is very positive. There are, in fact, as many jobs as there have been in the area and there are as many people at work as before, but now they are not dealing with administration, which takes place centrally, and the provision of support services, but they are all now dealing with the services that really need to be provided on the ground there. What are the most important tasks of the municipality? Organisation of the school network, provision of social services. Once again, I do not have much faith that administrative reform or the reform of local governments will reduce the sum of people working in local governments very much. My hope is that the functions of providing support services and, to a certain extent, the exercise of power, at least partially, will be transferred to those people who provide public services on the ground. It's, I think, a big deal. There is also certainly the expectation that, if local authorities are slightly larger, they will be able, for example, to be a better partner for entrepreneurs and to put forward arguments as to why the private sector should create jobs in this area. I am positive about this, and I think that the sum of jobs will not change from this; rather, there is the hope that there will be places providing substantial services instead of administrative jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U234	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U235	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister! In Estonia, three things can be infinitely admired: how the fire burns, the water flows, and the government makes administrative reform. For the first time, I heard about the need for administrative reform in 1999 from the customs Minister of the Interior, Tarmo Loodus. He went to the group, came with a map, showed us what and how, and even mentioned the time when it would all be finished. By maintaining tradition, perhaps you will tell us when this reform will end? If I'm out of here by then, young colleagues will be able to remind you of it, ask about it and laugh with you. But seriously, why is it not wanted to learn from Latvia, where the administrative reform was carried out in one year without asking anyone? At the moment, they are fantasticly satisfied with all the authorities I've been to.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U236	Thank you. That's a good question. By the way, I also remember the first option of administrative reform since 1999 when the Minister was Tarmo Loodus. So I worked at the Ministry of Justice, and as a young official, I came across these issues on the edge. However, it has been the case that if the government has undertaken this reform not only by the then Triple Union government, which was led by Mart Laar, but also by these governments later on, then mostly the details of the reform have been entangled in the details of the reform which have not been agreed upon. And oh wonder, despite the fact that this reform has not come up for 15 years and beyond, the current government union still has such a somewhat naive and idealistic belief that once we have been clear enough, it will be possible to implement this reform. I would argue that we are closer to the success of administrative reform than ever before. Does this mean that the administrative reform will automatically succeed? Absolutely not. No major reform will succeed by itself. We have to make a huge effort to make this work. I think Arto Aas understands very well that he has one of the hardest jobs in the government. At the same time, it is positive that other ministers and members of the Riigikogu from the government union support him and I am pleased to see that others, not just members of the government union, support him. Your party and members of the Free Party have also said that this is a sensible direction. We can argue here, and that's normal. We are also arguing within the coalition and we are arguing within our party about how to do this reform exactly. Of course, I think we will have our differences in certain nuances here, but if we understand together that this has to be done, I believe that you are prepared to support administrative reform even if it is not as vigorous as you want to see it in the first stage, so that it is done immediately and without talking to anyone. There are political parties in the Riigikogu who say that this topic should still be discussed very thoroughly with the local governments. The starting points are a little different. You said that in Latvia, the result is appallingly satisfied. I still suggest you ask the Latvians. I'm not saying they're awfully dissatisfied, but it's not that black and white. It is also true that not all the people of Estonia are applauding this reform immediately. We understand that making major reforms will never be easy, and we are grateful if opposition parties are thinking about it, helping to do this reform better, and see that it is a common thing, it is not just a government issue, but it is still a thing that affects the whole of Estonia's life. Any feedback and contributions are welcome. This same question is, in my opinion, a very positive example of your real interest in this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U237	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U238	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Finally, we came to Latvia. I want your opinion. How much have you taken from Latvia and how do you appreciate this rapid reform in Latvia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U239	Thank you. It is clear that Arto Aas can still talk about Latvia in the Committee of Experts today. I understand that you have a number of questions in store for him, too, he can comment on this subject. He has been involved in the transport and management of this panel of experts. In the Committee on Government, I must say, there has been little talk about the example of Latvia. There has been talk about the Nordic countries, but also not so that we should copy or copy someone exactly, but rather the focus has been on what their lessons have been, which we should either repeat or avoid. For example, compensation for local government leaders has been increased in many respects so that human factors do not hinder reform. This has become necessary in several countries. But, of course, there are still many examples. I think that it is still crucial to take a detailed look at the Estonian way of life when laying down the principles of administrative reform. There's really nothing you can do. Let us see what others have done well and where they have strayed. Of course, we need to learn from the activities of others, but in the end we still need to find a reasonable solution for Estonia. So we have, in our opinion at least, agreed in the coalition that this solution, which we have reached or are actually approaching, is best suited for Estonia, because the details are still being clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U240	Thank you. This is indeed a very good and general philosophy question, but I do not think it is very difficult to answer that question. I have rather sensed that sometimes people try to blame the government for not thinking big enough and not doing big enough things. This has been the case for a number of governments for a relatively long period of time. Indeed, we have been able to see the public, after very heated arguments, and in part your party was able to formulate what are the great things that we want to achieve. We have come to the understanding that even in the most important matters of state order, the state does not have to be content with the status quo, but rather to strive for innovation. In the public sector, we must strive to provide the highest possible quality of services to the taxpayer in the most efficient way possible. We have to keep up with the times. In itself, many of these changes are not revolutionary; rather, it is a modernization, an innovation. I also think that the reform of the state is a bit too big a word. It is as if it would assume that the Estonian state is in such a poor state that everything must be changed. That's not really the case. The organisation of local governments is one of the things that must be reformed. People with reduced working capacity should be helped to work, yes, the system is now such that it needs to be reformed. So the work ability reform is also one of the things you could add to your list. Some of these things you have mentioned are indeed what deserve the name of the reform and where fundamental reforms are needed to make things better. But sometimes it is also the case that every innovation tends to be called reform. I don't want to agree with that. I have sometimes thought that it would be fairer, more transparent and fairer to mention things that we do under the name of state reform to keep up with time, innovation and innovation in the public sector. That would actually be much more appropriate. Otherwise, we say that our country is so bad that it must be completely transformed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U241	Prime Minister! Personally, I very much believe in the reform of the state. This is an excellent task in order to renew democracy not only in Estonia but perhaps in Europe as a whole. This democracy, which we have grown old and weak, is no longer working well everywhere. My question, however, is that. Have you also looked at the administrative reform in its substance? Perhaps it would be worth thinking about how, in the course of this reform, we would be able to eliminate (or reduce) this phenomenon, that power can be concentrated in the hands of one person, whether it be on Ruhnu Island with 40 inhabitants or in Tallinn with 400000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U242	Thank you. I have to admit, I haven't been to Ruhnu in a while. I have to admit, I haven't met the leaders of this parish. So I can't comment on how much that power is concentrated in Ruhnu and how many people. In Tallinn, I have seen it from the side, quite close to the side, and I have also experienced it as a citizen. But this, too, is not an issue that can or should be resolved by self-government reform. I generally disagree with the assessment that democracy in Estonia is old and weak. In fact, however, there are democratic elections in all municipalities; we have no reason to believe that there are no democratic elections in some municipalities. All the local government leaders who have been elected as a result of the democratic process have deserved their place because the people have decided so. Whether some very small municipalities have a choice of substance at all or enough people who claim to be the leader of the municipality is already a question of their own, as is the way in which the local government organisation of such small populated islands should operate in the future. That is one question that Parliament must decide. In theory, it is possible that a small island will remain part of a larger area, as is currently the case with Prangli, which is part of Viimsi rural municipality. Theoretically, it is possible, because the island is completely separate and the island's life takes place completely separate from Kihnu or Ruhnu, also there to keep the municipality. I think this is one of the issues that I am sure needs to be discussed. Objectively speaking, islands with human settlements are different phenomena and cannot, in my understanding, be taken by the same standard as municipalities on the continent between other municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U243	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U244	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! The Constitution gives the government the opportunity to do all the changes to the borders related to administrative reform a little faster and more rigorously. I only remember two of those times. Let's be honest, there was talk about Tallinn, and the government wanted, by the way, not to change the external borders, but to change the internal borders. Something else had to do with Paldiski. I can tell you about five or six places in Ida-Virumaa, where there will never be a change of borders at a democratic level, as you say. Why doesn't the government want to say a strong word here? Is the government afraid of the responsibility it has for changing borders?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U245	Thank you. This is the right question and concerns one of the most important areas for decision-making in the administrative reform. We have now agreed that local governments will be able to join voluntarily before the next local elections. But we have also agreed that if they do not, and if there are municipalities that do not meet the criteria, they are either too small or they are unable to provide services, except perhaps some exceptions, if we have been able to agree in Parliament what they could be, then the role of the government is to unite them. In this case, decisions must be taken on which municipalities should be put together. In principle, the government or the state as a whole has this power. I hope, however, that the local government leaders across Estonia will take this process so seriously themselves that they do not expect anyone to come and join them, but they are actively thinking about how it would be best to join them from the point of view of the people of the region. This is supported by the fact that we have decided to double the support for voluntary accession. It is not certain that when the government starts to unite, no more merger support can be paid at all. It must also be argued at the level of the law, but it is possible that only those who voluntarily join and actively think along can receive membership support. It's actually a possibility. Then volunteering could also be much more motivated and no one would wait for the government to join forces. But once again, if the municipalities do not join themselves, then the government must have the right to join them. I'm sure it's not easy, but you have to be prepared for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U246	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U247	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I'm asking you a more philosophical question. We have a major administrative reform, state reform, organisation of the school network and consolidation or review of R &amp; D institutions in the country. Would you like to state to you an important cause or an idea line that holds all these things together? Doing so many things at once, there must be something to tell people why we need it all.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U248	Thank you, Prime Minister. No further questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate? There is no wish for negotiation. We have finished dealing with the fifth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U249	We are going to the sixth question that has been submitted to the Minister of Education and Science, Jürgen Ligi. This is an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu, Mailis Reps, Märt Sults, Toomas Vitsut, Mikhail Korbi, Siret Kotka, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta, Priit Toobali, Jaanus Karilaadi, Erki Savisaare, Martin Repinski, Jüri Ratas, Olga Ivanova, Rein Ratas, Tarmo Tamme, Enn Eesmaa, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Andrei Novikov, Valeri Korbi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Kersti Sarapuu and Kadri Simson concerning the value of the work of kindergarten teachers. In the name of the heirs, please speak to March Sults!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U250	Good manager! Colleagues! I have a question about valuing the work of kindergarten teachers. The work of a kindergarten teacher lays the foundation for the development of a child for the rest of his life. In addition to direct teaching, kindergarten teachers must be prepared to identify the different needs of children and to refer them to experts providing assistance, such as logos, psychologists and special needs teachers. Kindergarten teachers lay the foundation for the whole child's education. Teacher qualification requirements, in-service training and other quality assurance requirements are currently applicable to both school teachers and kindergarten teachers. Unfortunately, to date, the government has not been able to set a minimum wage for kindergarten teachers similar to those for teachers. Some municipalities, such as Tallinn and Harku municipalities, have, on their own, set the minimum wage for school teachers at the same level as the minimum wage for kindergarten teachers, but many municipalities do not have the financial means to do so. While the minimum wage for teachers in full-time employment is 900 euros per month, most kindergarten teachers do not have a minimum wage and their salaries are significantly below teachers' wages. The fork is from EUR 590 to EUR 900. We therefore have the following questions for you. How does the new government plan to solve the pay problem for kindergarten teachers? The second question: 'The minimum wage for teachers is 900 euros; however, there is no minimum wage for kindergarten teachers. When does the government plan to introduce it to give kindergarten teachers a decent salary? ' The third question: 'The school teacher's leave per year is 42 calendar days. At the same time, for example, the basic school teacher's or teacher's leave is 56 calendar days. When is it planned to harmonise the holiday rates of kindergarten teachers with those of other teachers? ' Now there is the question of whether there is a teacher or a teacher in kindergarten. What do you call a process when a kindergarten teacher puts a slipper on little Jussi or Juhan and at the same time tells him that look at how beautiful he looks today, he's cleaned his nails and how nice his pants are clean of dirt? Is it pedagogy, or is it something else? What do you call it when a child has misjudged the buttons and a kindergarten teacher has been told us that there are no teachers in kindergarten once, says, "Wait, Juhan, today you put the buttons in your mouth. Let's count down from the top: button one and button one'? What is it, raising or teaching discipline? What's that? How can someone take the courage to say that a person who deals with a child of the tenderest age is simply a secondary educator? Kindergarten teacher is sacred. Of course, I don't know how to talk about it. I've never been to kindergarten, I'm a pussy, I've grown in my mother's lap, and I'm terribly happy that I grew up in my mother's lap because she was my greatest teacher. I didn't have the money, the resources to pay him back in his life. But right now, I'd be happy to pay him off if I could somehow fight off other teachers who deal with children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U251	Thank you. Please respond to the inquiry by Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U252	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I have to say, I've been to kindergarten and my sisters, my brother and my sons have all been to kindergarten. I do not understand in any way the understanding of this distinction, as if raising was somewhat secondary or inferior compared to teaching. I recently met with day-care providers myself and told them straight out that I look even more at raising than I do at teaching skills. I don't think playing around with names is gonna change what's in it. The fact that people who are now no longer allowed to be called tutors were once told of a teacher's title, again does not change my values. I am very grateful to those who have raised me and very grateful to those who have taught me. But as soon as this speech came to the fore, I say that the general direction is this way, he probably also knows that the role of rearing is greater at a younger age. The experts have thus explained why upper secondary school education is very different from primary school education. The word'very' would take away from there, just as I also protested against the word 'absolutely different' when I spoke to them. These things are similar, the border is unclear, but the approach for children of different ages is still different. Now to the questions. 'How does the new government plan to solve the pay problem for kindergarten teachers? 'The government has circumstantial methods. The Prime Minister has just answered questions about administrative reform. In my opinion, the main thing is that municipalities are stronger, offer better services, be able to hire better experts and pay better salaries. However, we do not intend to interfere with the freedom of local governments to determine the pay conditions of their employees. It would be totally inappropriate to intervene in the autonomy of municipalities, but also to intervene in their budgetary choices. In itself, this is not a question of dominance in the municipal budget. We are talking about maybe a few percent of what kindergarten staff are spending, and if this amount increases by a few percent, this increase will be an even smaller burden on the municipal budget. It's a question of choice. These choices are made by municipalities in very different ways. At the same time, on Vormsi Island, for example, kindergarten educators, sorry, kindergarten teachers pay more than EUR 1,100, but there are also examples of 400-euro wages that, of course, do not make them happy. However, this is an assessment by the municipality of its situation, including the situation of its labour market. The Ministry of Education supports this area more indirectly. For example, we pay operating grants to the representative organisation of kindergarten teachers as well as for language training for children in other languages. The second question: 'The minimum wage for teachers is 900 euros. However, there is no minimum wage for kindergarten teachers. When does the government plan to introduce it to give kindergarten teachers a decent salary? ' I'm not going to. You have obviously received exactly the same answer from the two previous ministers of education who were part of coalition parties. I am critically critical of the rigid rules on the labour market, but to impose this rule at the expense of other budgets, it is already an issue of autonomy that I do not want to interfere with. The Pre-school Children's Institution Act says that the conditions of pay for kindergarten teachers are agreed between municipalities and representative organisations of kindergarten teachers. The question is whether such provisions should be included in the law at all, which apply when an agreement comes, and do not apply if there is no agreement. I don't think the outcome of the negotiations can be established by law. But this provision correctly shows the parties who do this. The third question is about the leave of teachers in pre-school institutions. They ask when it will be extended from 42 to 56 days. Again, I do not see any possibility of the government interfering in negotiations between the employer and the contractor in this way. Forty-two days is a pretty long vacation, I must admit. Usually, the parents of children who are raised and taught by these people have 28 days of leave. We must look at kindergarten teachers as service providers, not at all, as comes out of here, in a oppressed group whose rights must be fought for at all costs at national level. These are people who offer working people the opportunity to work, care for their children, and teach them children. If we were to extend their national leave without knowing what the ability of municipalities to keep the day care open financially and in other resources would make it more difficult for people to work. Let's take a look this way. It's different with school. The school year is of a fixed duration, with a certain summer break, but there is no kindergarten. As far as claims are concerned in general, the minimum wage, to comment on the previous question, requires teachers to have a master's degree, which is not expected of kindergarten teachers. It cannot be argued that it is only reasonable to draw these parallels because of a similar title. But, of course, I'm sorry that kindergarten teachers' salaries are as low as they are in practice. The honorable waitress of the heirs has just been a local government character. I looked at the pay levels of the municipalities and saw that the municipality, where its coalition belongs, did not pay the kindergarten teachers more than average wages. I hope you also submitted your question to the Tallinn Council. The difference in Tallinn compared to the average wage is, of course, considerably greater than in Estonia in general. I wouldn't be too happy if I were you. These were the answers to those three questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U253	Thank you. Minister, there are questions for you. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U254	Thank you to the manager. Good minister! Under the school networking label, upper secondary school levels have started to be nationalised and a number of state schools have emerged. We know what the background is. It was still awkward to hear that the government could do nothing by having such large scissors in the wages of kindergarten teachers across Estonia: some municipalities cost less than 500 euros and some over 1100 euros. The service standard has not been developed. The question arises as to whether the only solution really is the development of state-owned kindergartens.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U255	Thank you. I'm embarrassed again that you're going to ask me a question like this. Internationally or at least in Europe, the rule is that kindergartens are a local issue organised by municipalities. You love very much to talk about I am now thinking about the party of how the government is constantly harassing and harassing local governments and not giving them money. When it comes to responsibility, there is another issue: the government has not given, the government is putting more burden on it, etc. It's completely opposite and illogical. There's no sign of a school network. There is practice in the school network: we invest to ensure that local governments have the strength, which means saving, as well as the incentive to organize the school network, so that teachers can have a full load and contribute to the quality of education rather than contribute to real estate. These are completely different things. The smaller the child, the closer the child's establishment is. In higher education, it is often recommended that we air ourselves in the wide world. I wouldn't be so pushy, it's every learner's choice. Winding around the world may also mean alienating from local conditions, but it can also be a positive experience. But kindergarten is clearly close to home; primary school is almost the same. Basic school is community-owned, it could be a little further than primary school. The upper secondary school network is what the state is trying to centralise already in some ways at the county level, which does not mean that all municipal secondary schools will disappear. Clearly, the surplus of capacity, which is, is also reflected, of course, in the lower salaries of teachers and must be done. These are very different areas. Universities, as we know, we have two cities. That's how this country is built. Here, I think, no one in the hall has made any substantive discovery.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U256	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U257	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Rumor has it there's been an increase in teachers' pay in the new budget. Rumor has it that no funds have been provided for this, it has to be done at the expense of internal resources. Does this mean that teachers must be fired in schools and kindergartens in order to ensure wage increases?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U258	Thank you. Somehow, there are rumors all the time today. Your party partner in one committee asked the same question on the basis of rumors. No minister needs to be cuckooed until the actions have been taken, and the decisions have been taken. I am not going to tell you what happens to teachers' salaries until decisions are fixed. But I think it has been said in the press reports that 4% of the salaries will be paid to teachers, which I think is clearly few. Of course, to fight it out, I worked hard enough to get much more than others. However, indeed, most of the salary increase, or more than 4%, I am trying to find in addition a wider area of governance and administration. In any case, most administrative efforts must take into account one form or another of strap effort, which generally does not mean administrative dismissals or wage cuts, but, for example, a freeze on the payroll or structural reforms that result in labour savings. Labour savings do not necessarily mean that someone is told to leave. The natural movement of the labour force can also do so more leniently. But I have to admit that the government expects all ministers to do what we fought for for the payroll was also the result of the promises. We also promised that, in our area of administration, we would carry out the forecast, that we would not fail to make decisions. These decisions come in very different forms. I hope that the Riigikogu and the Government will support what depends on their decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U259	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U260	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have also been a kindergarten child, and all five of my children have been in kindergarten. In addition, for 17 years, I have also been head of kindergarten, mayor for nearly seven years...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U261	Excellent!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U262	...when I had to deal with the same issues all the time. But in 2008, we were told that if we equate the pay of a kindergarten teacher with the minimum wage of a schoolteacher, the state would reimburse the cost. That's what he did for a year and a half. In 2009, when the local government's income base was very, very significantly cut, we obviously could no longer achieve this increase to this extent. Can the Minister say when it would be possible for the local government's tax base to get its money back? Local authorities would probably conclude agreements with kindergarten teachers to raise their salaries.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U263	Thank you. I wasn't around these changes, these equalization-compensations, but the way you described it doesn't sound reasonable. These may not have been the best decisions, and many such decisions went into correction during the crisis. Today, many of these decisions are corrected by the Finnish state, whom we have glorified and adored as a fortress of prosperity and an example. Society still needs to understand where its powers are and whether it can control its costs. Even before the crisis, I was very critical of the artificial growth of the municipal income base compared to that of the state. The State granted tax relief to the municipality, where the same people who received the relief lived. It didn't work at all. Of course, it was a double burden on the state budget. It was perfectly natural that such a fiscal bubble, a hidden structural deficit in the state budget at the end of the boom, led to very different cuts, including the reversal of part of the revenue base in the municipal budgets. At the same time, very binding commitments were reduced by the municipalities. But back then, you cut everything. I do not like the fact that anyone in this Chamber and in the committees still loves to talk about some sort of restoration of the boom-time situation. We still have to learn something from the boom. If we didn't learn in the booming season, then in times of crisis, we certainly had to learn. This reversal just doesn't work. I do not support this way of financing local governments, where a percentage is set, so half of the money goes to the most prosperous Estonian municipalities. I believe that regional policy must be about levelling out differences, and I have always advocated that instead of the percentage of income tax allocated to municipalities, the compensatory fund should be increased. But I also agree with the critics who say that if we level out, we will not get the municipalities to reform themselves. Now we have our own mechanisms for this reform. If it is clear what is going on with the merger of municipalities, what is going on voluntarily, which decisions are being made on functions and which decisions are being forced, I think it is right to review the size of the fine-tuning fund. To give the unreformed system just to the money is certainly to cool down and slow down the reform. This is a general rule and this also applies to municipalities. If there's no sense of need, there won't be any decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U264	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U265	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Jurgen, you're a smart guy. But explain to me why it is still that most municipalities do not want to pay normal or even normal wages to kindergarten teachers or educators, as someone calls them. Do they keep money for their wages or for anything else, or are they just that stupid? What's this all about? I can tell a story that a teacher with a master's degree, a well-educated young person, will turn to the unemployment fund to receive training and finally start to share cocktails for a higher salary on a ship sailing between Tallinn and Helsinki. Why is it that municipalities do not want to pay properly for kindergarten teachers? Moreover, the smaller the child, the more care he needs, and the more important it is the education he is given.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U266	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a request. Let's try to fit the question in one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U267	Thank you. I believe that abandoning my profession for a higher salary happens very often. It's not necessarily someone's fault, it's more of a law or a right part of it. The law is that the labour market operates in the form of demand and supply. The vocality of this demand, or rather the demand, which actually means the supply, depends on the actual salary number. Well, I told the kindergarteners to be stronger and not to go outside the wrong door. There is no need to allow yourself to be directed to the door of the Minister of Education simply because he has one door, but there are many doors in the municipalities. Their actual employer is the municipality. It makes it easier for rulers to ask someone who does not provide such answers and can never give them, regardless of their political affiliation. Kindergartens are not going to be, I hope, the core function of the state, but they are still the core function of the municipalities, so the municipality will remain the employer. I repeat, wage increases represent a percentage of the municipal budget. If they do not make these decisions, then help must be sought with the power of negotiation. It is probably worth encouraging representative organisations, and we are also giving them money, as I have already mentioned. But on the other hand, as long as there are people willing to work on this salary, it is very difficult to achieve anything practical. In this sense, the market is cruel. If you are willing to work cheaper, you will be paid less. This, unfortunately, also concerns the state as well as the municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U268	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U269	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I haven't been to kindergarten and, as far as I know, since I grew up, there was no kindergarten. But for 18 years, I've been working on kindergarten issues, kindergarten teachers and educators' salaries. There is nothing to say, in fact, the pay of kindergarteners depends on the central government and how the central government finances the local government. Let me give you an example that you probably remember. I think you may have been a minister even at that time. Once the local government had a provision like the kindergarten pay supplement or something like that, I don't remember what it was called. I remember that one year we even had a 30% increase in the pay of kindergarten teachers, but in 2008 the income base was cut and this so-called kindergarten pay fund disappeared. There's nothing to say, the central government and the local government are connected, the salary depends on the will of the central government. Or are you saying otherwise?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U270	Thank you. I hope you were still watching what I said. In principle, the country must have logical functions. It's not like this hall keeps saying that you'd do it if the state gave you money. After all, the real donor is the taxpayer. If you have a proposal to raise taxes in order to give this money on an ad hoc basis for specific agencies, then make a proposal. I think you could come up with a lot of different tax increases, only you don't want to come up with them. You think that the central government is this indigenous rich, who has his own wallet somewhere, and you instill it in people whose, say, understanding the functioning of society is not always the best. That is unfortunate. However, you should act more in the community, in the municipality, and there you should apply for more noble decisions. In my opinion, a more noble profession than a kindergarten teacher of my own, I would still be willing to say'school teacher' is hard to find. Every time I picked up my kids in kindergarten, I made sure. But I couldn't pay them more than the municipality had foreseen.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U271	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Colleagues Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U272	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Peter, you asked me why these salaries are so different in local governments. Six months ago, I went through all the kindergartens in Narva, and I was sure that always, in every kindergarten, I had to explain it. I'm talking about the first problem. A few years ago, my group and I attended a meeting. So we went to several establishments in a nice seaside rural municipality. We had a conversation with the mayor, and I asked him what was the average salary of the grower. He said I had my eyes full, and I couldn't believe my ears could be like that at all. But after that, you know how the faction works, don't you? It happened that I went to a kindergarten meeting in this area. I told them it must be good for them to live with that kind of pay. They asked me what kind of pay. I named the amount of money that an hour ago had sounded in the parish elder's office. It was made clear to me that the nominal salary was there, but it turned out that I had not been told that kindergarten teachers worked three days a week and had a reduced working day. This means that these figures sometimes deceiving themselves. No one's going to go any further on how the situation really is, especially when it comes to possession, all right? That's the first point. Second. The system is currently such that it is more beneficial for local authorities not to fulfil their obligations in the maintenance of pre-school institutions. I'll explain. There are two small towns along the lines, each with the same number of pre-schoolers. Only in one city there are so many kindergartens that all children get a kindergarten place, such as four kindergartens, and in another city where there are just as many schoolchildren, there are two kindergartens. Where do you think it's easier for a local government to perform its function? Where are the salaries higher? Well, in this town, where families have to wait years for a kindergarten place. But it's more economical if there's less of them. They have to be maintained, utilities are incurred, repairs are needed, wages have to be paid. It is clear that the fewer institutions and staff there are, the more useful it will be for the local government. If you look at the chart that is mentioned in the inquiry, you will see that, for example, Ida-Viru County is among the last three in terms of wages. But the thing is, there are no kindergarten queues in Narva, for example. We used to have 38 kindergartens, 39 were built, now it's kindergarten 23 and there's no queue. Every child, every family gets a place. There's only one kindergarten where there's a queue. It is a special institution that studies Estonian from the age of three and learns very well. No problems after, that's why the parents want to put their kids in there. The question is that if it had been sold in the 1990s, not in the 12.14 kindergartens, but in some 25 and now there would be only 13 kindergartens in the city instead of 23, then we would have as much wages as in Tallinn. Our expenses would be lower. The only inconvenience would be... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U273	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U274	...that ten kindergartens of children, 600-700 children, would be in line. The system is wrong from the start! The system requires that the worse you perform your duties, the better it will be for you. I am thinking about local governments now. That's the point. This can only be improved in cooperation with the central government. If the central government sets the same minimum rate, teacher's salary, as well as everyone else's salary, kindergarten manager, logo beet, assistant teacher, everyone's salary, then the municipality can only work within this set of rules and the situation will be equal. Of course, the state should help to improve this situation, given how many kindergarten places there are on average per thousand children in the municipality. But, unfortunately, the better the situation with kindergarten places, the lower the pay gap. One more thing. If I go to a kindergarten, it says they've been told they need optimized. Then I ask if dear ladies and gentlemen understand what optimization is. To raise their wages by 10%, one in ten employees needs to be fired. I tell them there are 30 people in their kindergarten, I turn my back and don't watch them do it, but let them give me three beautiful names, let them decide who they want to fire, leave without bread. We are people in local governments, after all! The Minister of Education says optimize, raise your salary, but you need to concentrate. The only thing I don't do when I'm a local government leader: I don't cry in front of people. I don't even know when I'm alone. This is such a crazy situation. Next year it will happen again: school financing will be reduced, but the minimum wage will be raised and spoken of how progressive they are, because wages have been increased. But we need to think about how we gather 300-400 teachers across Estonia. This is exactly the same in the pre-school nursery sphere. So there's a problem. The problem is that working badly is more useful than working well. Another part of the problem is that over many years, the country has not wanted to put its shoulders on and has not helped to solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U275	Thank you. I request the speech chair of the Riigikogu to the March Sults!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U276	If there are no people, there is no country. If there's a smart scientific community, but a stupid kindergarten, there's no country. Mr. Minister of Education blamed me for things like I was starting to divorce teachers and educators. I didn't do that. I guess I was acting a little crazy, or I didn't make precise definitions. I mean, parenting and teaching are exactly the same process. By cultivating and educating, the qualities and traits of man are cultivated. The Minister admitted that we are all stupid and make bad decisions, but he still failed to say that the Riigikogu and the Ministry are giving a law that local authorities must comply with. I mean, the state does not have the courage, competence, skills or know-how to define the concept of a teacher and how to assign a salary to it. 900 euros, which is a minimum teacher's salary or a minimum salary in school, is complete... (there should have been one adjective here). Because it's not that salary. This has been the case since Aaviksoo: the rise in teachers' salaries means that their real wages are falling all the time, with the intensity of work constantly increasing. As the acousin likes to say... There was a Russian word for it. It shows how intense a person has to work. In fact, the teacher's working hours are 35 hours and that means 900 euros. At some point, the minimum wage was 18 hours ago, some time was 22 hours in normal load, some time was 24 hours. At present, 35 hours of Aaviksoo remain valid. So the teacher can have 35 contact hours a week, and it's worth 900 euros. The teacher's salary has fallen by nearly 30%. The Minister made a complaint to me that I am once again divorcing teachers and educators, secondary school and preschool education, or the first stage. The Ministry has put very cruelly in place: in primary school there are 24 students who are eligible for the class, 32 in upper secondary school. I mean, upper secondary school teacher's pay is 25% lower. Who the hell can do that thing? Where the diamond is polished into a diamond diamond, where the skills and final touch are given, the teacher actually gets 25% lower pay, his hour costs less. What are we talking about a raise and something like that? In order to hide it, state secondary schools were made. They were evicted from the box. In the state upper secondary school, everything on full-dose is food and everything that comes with it is in-depth education, electives, everything is paid off. Municipal school, what the hell! The municipality is not fulfilling its obligations. I mean, that's bullshit, if you take it like that, it's bullshit. When administrative reform is needed, the local government is not asked for anything at all. If you don't fix it by that date, we'll impose fines on you. But if it is necessary to finance the raising of children, it is said that why municipalities do not pay, it is stupid and jealous and it is not difficult to be bothered. Where's the logic? I'm sorry, but if there is no competence, no skills, no know-how, ask the players! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U277	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Jaanus Karilaidi!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U278	Good listeners! I would be very careful, instead of the Minister for Education and Science, to praise the spirit of the era he spoke of. He said that he was in kindergarten at the time, and his family went to kindergarten, and they received a very good service. I think the psychological protection advisor Ilmar Raag should brief him a little, because it's very dangerous when the Minister of Education and Science commends that era. But that's it. It was also very embarrassing to hear that when the central government needed to be spoken about the financial autonomy of the local government. The revenue base has not been restored, the compensatory fund has not been restored. If municipalities want to talk about job creation, the Land Board sends a letter that job creation is not the responsibility of the municipality. Certain municipalities are deliberately kept on the leash of the Equalisation Fund. One mayor told me that he did not really have any point in thinking about the population problems of his community and looking for new taxpayers, since he would receive his money from the Equalisation Fund anyway. The central government has actually watched for years the so-called inability of our governments. If councils, for example, signal the mother of refugees that they do not want to solve this issue without a debate, then the central government will be able to place refugees on the territory of the municipality anyway. However, if I ask why the central government has not been able to set a standard of service, so that for example, municipalities should be able to guarantee a wage fund with a minimum standard (it is abnormal that some municipalities have a salary of less than EUR 500 and some have a salary of more than EUR 1100, for the same work, responsibility and burden), then the central government will lay out its hands and say that there is nothing it can do. All of this illustrates that the central government is not involved in managing social processes. If it is necessary to argue whether the right title is a teacher or a teacher, then the Ministry of Education is very quick to intervene and talk. But if it is necessary to make local government a partner in the community, no solutions will be found. All of this suggests that the negative connotations of society are intended to put the local authorities to the neck and find a'pseudo-responsible' for the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U279	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U280	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who are still here! In the meantime, it's kind of a compliment, but we could still talk about it. I have a lot of kindergarten friends, including kindergarten directors, and I think we should talk about it. My question is, why are these good people, whom Minister Ligi praised here, getting a worse salary in most municipalities than teachers? Education should be comprehensive. The government could or should look at education as a whole, regardless of whether it is children of a kind or of older children. It was a good thing for the Minister to say that it is a practice in Europe that municipalities and cities pay salaries to teachers of children. At the same time, it was said that if they get a lousy salary, let them go to the parish house, kick open the door and demand a better salary from the mayor or the mayor. I'm asking you this, but why don't you look at it differently? It is the custom of Europe, but the Estonian state does many things a little differently than it is elsewhere. The Prime Minister answered here before the question of the abolition of corporate tax and said that, yes, we do, but it is not in Europe. I might ask, but why should Estonia view the salaries of kindergarten teachers in such a way that the municipalities look at how they find this salary? In fact, I repeat, the government should look at education as a whole. At the moment, it is about that we offer the stork to eat from the plate, and then we wonder why it gets so weak and maybe travels to Finland or somewhere else, to remind you of the beginning of my question. So let us look at the whole thing, and let us not only consider who is in opposition, who is in the coalition, acting as a roller and a rubber stamp. It's what kindergarten teachers deserve. Honestly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U281	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi of the Riigikogu for a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U282	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I don't speak as well as Maire Aunaste, who says she's still practicing. But I'm worried about the same subject. If I try to hold a debate with you on the issue of questions, I read the questions and I answer and I answer what I think is a sensible state order and what are the regulations, what I hear after the speeches is still very different. First, Jaanus came to Karlai and attributed me the idealization of the Soviet order. Oh, my God! Find another man for that, look around your party when you talk about idealization. But consider that everything you're saying here is going to be a verbatim. It will remain for future generations, and someone will perhaps start to just be a student doing a course or master's thesis comparing what the minister said and how it was summed up. This is gonna be embarrassing. Another thing about how Mart Helme reacted. He said I'd called everyone stupid, he said literally that I'd called people stupid in this hall. They say I barked, snogged, and all those other words. If you don't like me as a human being, if my style is too intense for you, that's one thing. But let's face it, Mart Helme, your style is still ten degrees stronger, and what you said didn't respond in any way to what I said. No tone, no content. Let us try to hold a debate and really discuss how to organise the country better, and let us not say that the municipality must be destroyed and that a government that centralises everything must be used to destroy it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U283	Thank you. I don't see any more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U284	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Social Democrats consider the demands of kindergartens to be basically correct. After all, it is nothing to say that there is almost three times the difference between kindergarten teachers' salaries in different municipalities. How can an educated and sturdy kindergarten teacher get a job in a small rural municipality and keep him in place when the salary is only EUR 424 per month? Sadly, however, the faithful day care providers of their invitation are not forever. The question therefore also has a regional political dimension. Second, kindergarten teachers do the same work as school teachers. They also have national qualification requirements and work on the basis of national curricula. In kindergarten, the teacher contributes no less to the education of the child than the teacher's school. Thus, kindergarten teachers deserve equal treatment with their colleagues in school. Proper early childhood education puts a strong foundation on a healthy person's education and work path. Under a methodologically trained and child-loving kindergarten teacher, children acquire not only letters and numbers but also values and social skills. Since the most turbulent period of human mental development is the first six years of life, most European countries with old democracies consider early childhood education as an integral part of a comprehensive education system. The present time is charged with possible changes and many loose ends. One of the proposals of the Socialists for the partners of the government union is, for example, to increase the independence and income base of local governments, but also to increase the pay of school teachers. Unfortunately, you can't get everything right now and at once. What can we do today? The easiest thing to say is that the state does not have the money to help local governments pay their wages. I think we need to make an effort and try to find that money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U285	Thank you very much. Mart Helme, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U286	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The minister started growing up. I take the right to raise a minister for a while, and I believe that some in this Chamber will join me. First of all, a week ago, the minister had to perform before us and answer questions. Unfortunately, we didn't see him here. Unfortunately, the Minister did not bother us today either to apologize or to explain why we failed to hear the answers to his questions a week ago. That's one. Second. We expect competent, clear and concrete answers from the Minister to his enquiries. We do not expect the Minister to come to teach us and to make taunting remarks to us. It's impertinent, unacceptable and unencourageable behavior. The minister has also left the hall now, without bothering to hear what we think about his behaviour and his answers. We don't think so! Three. When a grown man responds to an inquiry, he doesn't slouch here like this, he stands up straight and responds specifically, not blazed, bored, taunting us. It's a question of education. Now a little bit of content. The minister said we were expecting the government to be a money tree that we could always milk. We're not looking forward to it! We expect the government to do what the government has to do: to promote the economy of the Estonian state. Because only by promoting the country's economy can tax receipts increase. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas has just left the speaker's office. To our many questions about the taxation of banks and other monopolies-cartels and large foreign companies, he replied to us that this was not possible because it would destroy employment and have a devastating effect on the Estonian economy and investments. We mostly, at least those in opposition, do not believe that. However, the Minister of Education, who has also been Minister of Finance, might think that if local governments have such a screaming deficit in the pay of kindergarten teachers, which is projected over decades, then the government has to do something, but not look at us and say that we are stupid, we want to get money from the government and that's all. No, we're not stupid. We expect the government to act in such a way that there is more money and that it can be given to those areas that are truly distressingly screaming. One last thing: the minister once again patronizingly states that this is the market and no one is forbidding a person who gets 400 euros' salary in the back of Võrumaa, to come to Tallinn or to Finland, it is his free choice. But if that person's home is there when he's from there, if that person wants to live and work there, because his ancestors have been connected to this place for generations, why would he go to Finland! No! This is where the question arises on this very subject, which has been repeatedly raised. We have been waiting for answers on the fine-tuning fund, on the restoration of its payments, etc. These are the answers, the specific proposals and steps of the government that we expect, not the unbreeding and arrogant barking on the members of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U287	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Maire Aunaste!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U288	I'm taking the chance that there's so few of you here, and I'm just practicing standing on this remote control, maybe in the future it'll be necessary. I've been listening for quite a few weeks now to all the people who are very nice in the hallway or in the cafeteria become completely hateful when they stand on that remote and when they happen to be in opposition with the person who spoke here before them. I simply cannot tolerate the infinite grabbing of our ministers in the Republic of Estonia. There are so few of us here right now. Helmen's looking at me. I listened to Jaanus Kariladi and I thought now was a good time. My former teacher, Heimar Lenk, has already said at an extraordinary session when he came here to talk about Taavi Kõiva, that the Prime Minister acted arrogantly, arrogantly and badly and, in the first place, behaved very badly, in a word, with this side of the hall. Then I asked Heimari how he felt when I thought the Prime Minister wasn't arrogant. I just think the person who asks the question wants to hear what he likes. If we're divided into opposition and coalition here, then we just can't act any differently, especially if the cameras are working. I want to say, Jaanus, about what you said earlier, that Jürgen Ligil, being a minister, should be embarrassed to recall or heroise the time he went to kindergarten. You said it was very regrettable and embarrassing. I want to clarify here how I understood Jürgen Ligi's story. I'm not going to tell you that he didn't apologize for not speaking here last time, because I had left by then. I have no right to reproach myself when I was not in the Chamber at the time. But what I'm saying is that Jürgen Ligi didn't approve of this era, he praised his kindergarten teacher. In my opinion, it is very, very petty to confuse the age and the human being, to make reproaches on such a surface. It seems to me that although we cannot clap back to Soviet times, the people who raised and taught us are worth it to say thank you to them. That's why today I can't make any accusations to Jürgen Ligi. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U289	Thank you. I request the speech chair of the Riigikogu Krista Aru! We're trying to stay within the context of the question of questioning. Sorry, procedural question, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U290	Thank you, manager. Can personal sympathies and antisympathy against ministers and colleagues be expressed in the future when dealing with the question, or is there another heading in the Riigikogu for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U291	If we are negotiating in the context of an inquiry, we must take into account the context of an inquiry, as is the case with draft laws. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U292	Mr President! Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! A kindergarten teacher is a schoolmaster. He is a schoolmaster in the best sense of the word and in all its importance, for the term "schoolmastership" means both teaching and raising. The Free Party will certainly support the fact that kindergarten teachers receive a decent salary for their work. It is precisely because dealing with the smallest ones begins the whole course of education which, after all, answers the question of whether a person is educated or educated as an adult. At the same time, I would like to say that local governments must certainly retain the power to regulate local life, to make decisions and to take responsibility for them. If we're trying to centralize everything and solve it at central level, it's not right. We would also show that we do not trust the municipalities. What do I want to see the most? I want to see that the reform of the education system and the school network, the re-evaluation of the network of research institutions, the pay of kindergarten teachers, all of this are organised, regulated and set so that our goal can be a balanced life in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U293	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U294	Let's move on to the seventh question. It has been presented by members of the Riigikogu Siret Kotka, Mailis Reps, Mikhail Korb, Aadu Must, Priit Toobal, Jaanus Karilaid, Erki Savisaar, Martin Repinski, Olga Ivanova, Tarmo Tamm, Kersti Sarapuu, Märt Sults and Peeter Ernits on 18 August 2015. The inquiry is about the spread of African swine fever in Estonia and is number 65. Rural Minister Urmas Kruuse answers the question. I ask Siret Kotka, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, to introduce the inquiry to the public!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U295	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 18 August, on behalf of the Central Party Group, I really discussed an inquiry to the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus, and this concerned the spread of African swine fever in Estonia. As a reminder, if you look at the map of Estonia now, we have basically continental Estonia, which is covered by restricted zones, is the first, second or third zone. Estonian pig farmers sense that the government has left them alone during the spread of the plague. We know that there are 22000 domestic executions in Estonia and only 600 in Latvia. This shows in particular that the Estonian Government has watched more than anything. There is no real need to learn from the experience of Latvia. In the meantime, if we had the impression that our plague had stopped a little bit, a new case was discovered today and 102 cross-breeds had to be executed in Võrumaa because the plague was discovered there. So the plague hasn't gone or stopped anywhere, it could blow a new one. So pig farmers are struggling with their problem, and their problem is being dullly watched. Pork farmers who are in the red zone are particularly difficult because they are able to dispose of their pork at very low prices. The so-called canned campaign proposed by the government is no way out for them. In all this, we have asked the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus, five questions to which we are awaiting answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U296	Thank you. I now ask the Minister of Rural Affairs of the Riigikogu to answer the question, which bears the number 65!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U297	Honourable President! Honourable members and guests of the Riigikogu! The first question: 'How much of Estonia's territory is now covered by African swine fever? What has the government done to control the disease and to prevent the plague from reaching domestic pigs? " Since September 2014, when the first African swine fever was detected in Estonia, it has been detected in wild boars in 11 counties and in domestic pigs in seven counties. If we look at disease-related activities, we can group them as follows. First of all, the development of a common strategy and Baltic cooperation. As early as July 2014, agreements on the disease control strategy were reached between the European Commission, the Baltic States and Poland, and this strategy has been updated following the recommendations of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) in August this year. On 13 August, the ministers of agriculture in the Baltic States and Poland sent a joint letter to the European Union Commissioner for Health and Food Safety, Andriukaitis, with a detailed proposal to combat African swine fever. It was the intention of the proposers, among other things, to achieve greater flexibility in trade in live pigs and animal products between the same zones in other Member States. This work is not over and will continue in the coming months. But yes, as the good questioner pointed out, certain trade restrictions have certainly put the pig farmers in a third restricted zone in a more difficult position. When we are talking about establishing rules and improving control, the whole legal framework for disease control, which contains the Law on epizootic diseases, the Code of Conduct for the Control of African swine fever, contingency plans, has actually been in place for years. The most important measures to limit the spread of the disease from forest to farms are compliance with biosecurity requirements and the reduction of the feral pig population. The strategy specified requirements for both. In September 2014 and also in August this year, the PPP supervisory authorities and authorised veterinarians visited each individual pig farmer to verify compliance with the biosecurity requirements and to issue a recommendation. Speaking about the package of measures, of course, it is about raising awareness among all parties. As early as 2011, leaflets were distributed at border crossing points. They clarified restrictions on personal luggage, including that meat products may not be imported from third countries. These leaflets were also sent to bus and train companies engaged in international transport operations. In 2013, an information leaflet introducing the African swine plague was commissioned and sent to all pig farmers across Estonia via direct mail. We have a website called www.seakatk.ee, where all relevant information is gathered. Enhancing the capacity and cooperation between the state and its partners has also been one of the preventive and monitoring measures. The national disease control authority was set up in September 2014, with a local disease control committee in each county from 2015. As they do their daily work, they constantly negotiate monitoring and other guidelines. And as I have already said from this remote control, this work is clearly more active than it was originally planned. Of course, we have also planned to increase our technical capabilities. One part of this relates, for example, to the acquisition of cold chambers so that hunted boars are not kept until the results of the samples arrive, at the mercy of nature, and both the spread of disease and the deterioration of meat are avoided. Cooperation with scientists is also important. We would very much like researchers at the Estonian University of Life Sciences to analyse every case, and that is what they are doing, and to make recommendations to prevent the spread of the plague. This is not only about Estonia, but we want to share our knowledge with all other European countries, including those where there is no swine plague at the moment. I am thinking of strengthening both biosecurity requirements and compensation for disease damage. So there are a number of measures that have been taken to control the disease. Question 2: 'How much has the Ministry of Agriculture spent on the prevention and notification of African swine fever? ' For practical prevention, EUR 300000 has been orientally spent in the period 2014 to this point. A mobile burner costing EUR 227000 has also been acquired. In 2013 information leaflets were commissioned to distribute to all Estonian pig farmers. The brochures have also been translated into Russian and smaller prints have been used to provide English-language information. After all, foreign hunters also hunt in the Estonian forest. 'Do you think that the so-called red or restricted zones in Estonia are reasonably established? How does the government intend to compensate pig farms located in the restricted zone III for economic losses, given that no African swine fever has been found on these farms? " How are we going to do that? Firstly, as I referred to, we would like to get more clarity from the European Commission on the more specific reasons for establishing this zone and for how long this zone may be in force. Today we can say that we are somewhat unaware of the conditions under which the zone will cease to exist and the restriction will be lifted. That's one. The question also concerned the economic cost of the African swine fever. In an outbreak, or farm where pigs are destroyed, 100% of the damage is compensated and includes feed that is forced to be destroyed. We have also proposed to the European Commission that an exceptional market organisation measure be opened to allow aid to be applied for to pig farmers in the third zone who are forced to sell their produce much cheaper than before the disease. 'How do you predict the economic damage that African swine fever could cause to cereal farmers? ' If we look at the world of grain just because it depends very much on the stocks of cereals, the quality of the grain, the size of the crops, the weather forecasts and so on, it can now be said that there is no impact of classical swine fever on the price of cereals and its export. If we look at how much our cereal growers are selling to pig farmers, we must say that these quantities are not very large. The growing of grain in Estonia as animal feed is within the limit of 500000 tonnes, while all grain production has undergone a pretty good increase and it could be said that in a good year, our grain production will triple the feed demand. Our most important countries of export of cereals are Saudi Arabia, Germany, Kenya, Latvia, Norway and Algeria. As regards the direct impact of the plague, experts at the Estonian University of Life Sciences estimate that the infected fruit is not dangerous if it has been dried or stored for at least 30 days in such a way that it has not been in contact with the source of infection, either additionally or not at all. At the same time, it is important to make sure that no one tries to exploit the situation of our country in competitive conditions and to refer to the swine plague as an argument preventing the sale of Estonian grain. The fifth question: 'Ago Pärtel, the head of the Food and Veterinary Office, has not been able to take decisions proactively in time and has rather disinformed society. What position does the Minister for Rural Affairs have with regard to the employment relationship of Mr Ago Pärtel, Director General of the Food and Veterinary Office? ' I have said to the public and from this remote control that, as far as crisis management is concerned, the legislator has placed a very high level of direct responsibility on the Director-General of the Food and Veterinary Office. My greatest concern has been to inform the public, to inform it transparently and honestly. The case of Vireen has also been through the hall and the public, and because of the fake billing and the public wrestling, Vireen's former leader has resigned. The task of eradicating pigs infected by African swine fever is shared between several agencies and, on the basis of the information received yesterday, we have initiated disciplinary proceedings against Ago Pärtel. Once this investigation is over, we can inform the public in more detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U298	Thank you very much. You have a lot of questions, too. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U299	Good President! Good minister! I come to this last point, or disciplinary procedure. Not only the Vireen case, but also the suspicious so-called zonings have disturbed many pig farmers. Foreign pig farmers have been in the preferred situation, domestic farmers have been mistreated. My question is specific. When should the disciplinary procedure be completed? I hear Pärt's abduction decision was due last Friday. Is it likely that Pärtel will be removed as a result of this disciplinary procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U300	Honourable questioner! I don't know who your source is, which suggests that the removal of Pärt should have taken place last Friday. As a minister, I have made it known to the public that we are also going to investigate further the activities of the Veterinary Office. This decree, which concerns the initiation of disciplinary proceedings, will be signed by the Minister today. Internal audit and our people have estimated that the maximum deadline for this process could be 23 November. This time limit shall take into account any possible legal action that might result in it. What will be the decision after the disciplinary procedure, it would be very early to say today. Otherwise, it would not make sense to carry out this procedure, but a decision could be taken immediately.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U301	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U302	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question concerns the Saaremaa case. It was remembered that at first there was a message that a plague had been discovered on a wild boar in Saaremaa. After a while, it turned out that it was still not explained that there was a minor error and the laboratory said that the sample was 'a little positive'. How can one test result be 'a little positive'? Could there be other cases in Estonia where there is no actual plague and the result of the sample was 'a little positive'?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U303	The minister can share information with the public after an official paper has been received on his desk confirming that the samples have proved positive and we can confirm that a plague has been detected in one place or another. In his introductory words, the honourable questioner also pointed out that it was as if a diagnosis had already been confirmed that there was an African swine plague in Võrumaa. I have to admit, as far as I know today, this sample has not been confirmed. Well, it can happen sometimes in life that the public is given information that something has been confirmed, but it doesn't. In the particular case of Saaremaa, this was not confirmed by the foreign laboratory either. It actually means that this case does not exist for us. So if, in the Võrumaa case, the official confirmation of the positivity of the sample comes tomorrow, then the Minister can also say that this has indeed happened. Disinformation to the public in a crisis situation is, in my opinion, not very sensible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U304	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U305	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We all acknowledge that the swine plague has crossed all kinds of boundaries. This is particularly true if we compare our situation with Latvia and Lithuania and their response. The Ministry also acknowledges that mistakes have been made and that it has not been possible to respond effectively and to prevent the spread of the plague. You yourself went to the demonstration before the Riigikogu to meet the farmers and saw that the statements against you were quite strong and attracting attention. It should not be taken personally if I ask completely impartially: have you at least thought about taking political responsibility for the spread of the epidemic and resigning?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U306	If the price of milk rose by 10 cents the next day, thanks to my resignation, I would resign from the day, but at this point I don't see it coming. When it comes to the crisis situation, it is certain that the programme agreed at European level, and also approved with the other Baltic States and Poland, has been followed. I have admitted from this very remote area that, since this is an emotionally very complex issue, decisions that have been made on a particular fireplace may not be entirely understandable to the public. There are just over 15 registered cases in Estonia and this is twice the number in Latvia. The most critical situation was Tormas, and it happened because some of the risks were unearthed. For example, there was no place to do what to do when one of the cave leaders was simply unable to keep digging. I think there's a lesson to be learned from all this. However, there is no reason to claim that Latvia has been more successful in controlling the disease. And it is also known that there are indeed more pigs in the area where the plague started in Latvia. So the map of the plague could have been quite different in Latvia. The first case of Lithuania involved a very large farm, or nearly 20,000 pigs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U307	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U308	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I ask this question: why have these areas not been dealt with, where the dead wild boars of the plague have been found? I have several pictures on this phone of places where I've discovered these pigs myself, and they're near my home. They must have found three pigs there. The villager or any other person in that forest by chance has absolutely no idea that he is in the plague zone. And so the plague is spread to humans and birds. Why aren't these areas marked? For example, a sign that it is a plague area could be placed next to a forest target, or people could be informed in a newspaper or in some way in the village to know. Maybe nobody would've gone to the woods on berries or mushrooms. It is strange, in itself, that the plague area is unmarked and that nothing has been done about it. I think it should be elementary.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U309	When the honorable questioner listened attentively, he had received part of the answer to that question. I was talking about various information campaigns, including what was done to citizens. They started much earlier than this year. People have been urged to go into the forest only in case of need, and if they go to the forest, they must certainly not go to their own farm or to other farms after coming from the forest or through the deso barrier. As far as the spread of birds or insects is concerned, the experts at the University of Earth have also said, not only on the basis of their own knowledge, but also on the basis of a broader study of the fact that the spread has been reduced to a minimum. What does this minimum mean? If in normal life a person seems to have a minimum of 100, or 5%, although this may mean a pretty large number, scientists mean a minimum of 0.0 with something. I think it is right to rely on expert opinions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U310	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U311	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. There was a run-through, and you mentioned that the government has taken all sorts of steps to reduce the wild boar population. It's like I don't remember anything special being done. I know that in Latvia, night rangers were allowed to be used and refrigerators were distributed to hunting companies. We haven't done anything like this to this day. As far as I know, we still haven't been able to run the labs this weekend. If on Thursday night a man shoots a boar in this warm weather, he will give the samples away on Friday morning and the answer will be by Monday night. It's like an absurd theater here in Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U312	Good questioner! You are certainly misinformed that there are no refrigerators allocated to Estonian hunters. They've been separated and they're being separated. Secondly, for several weeks now, the lab is working on an extended schedule on Friday and will also work on weekends. So steps have been taken in this direction as well. If we compare the total number of samples in the spring and now, then surely the number of samples has increased. Things were not so critical in the spring that longer working hours would have been necessary. But the answer to which legislative amendment is made by the honourable Riigikogu on the basis of the proposal of the Ministry of the Environment will be known to society in the near future when these decisions have been discussed here. Reducing or controlling wild boar populations is certainly one of the key factors in the fight against swine plague. For example, Finns are worried about the possible spread of swine fever in Finland, although the number of these pigs is less than 2,000, which is tens of times smaller than we have. Scientists have clearly confirmed that the larger the population, the more likely the number of contacts and thus the spread.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U313	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U314	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will pick up where you finished, answering Mr Talvik's question. If you sign a disciplinary order, what will be the employment relationship with Ago Pärtel, the head of the Veterinary and Food Board? Will the employment relationship be suspended, will the performer be present, or how do you plan it until 23 November?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U315	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I would like to point out once again that I signed the disciplinary procedure and that by then Ago Pärtel will be suspended until the investigation is concluded. His replacement has been appointed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U316	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U317	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You are here every week before us as the commander-in-chief of an army of pigs who reports how many have fallen and how many have been burned and from which are attacked and what is the tactics and strategy. I ask: how much has things changed since last week, when I think four hours went on asking about this? What has changed significantly from the Ministry's point of view?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U318	There was a lot of questions last week. If, for example, we are talking about what has changed in terms of supporting farmers, today we can confirm that we have two important measures to alleviate the crisis in agriculture: the European Union allocates EUR 7.56 million and the fundamental decision of the Estonian Government is to allocate an additional 7.6 million. And while the European Commission also authorises Member States to pay emergency aid, farmers will receive an additional EUR 3 million in addition to EU money this year and an additional EUR 4.6 million next year. However, part of our work is daily routine work, which may not appear in this hall. We are not only dealing with pigs, but are preparing a number of measures for the agricultural sector. One is for investments, the other for pig farmers to exit the critical sector. Some pig farmers have made use of this possibility. Of course, the execution of 22000 pigs is not an emotionally and practically simple undertaking, but I cannot agree with those loud critics who claim that this will result in the Estonian people not being fed. The specific nature of our pig farming sector is that some pig farmers have not sold their pig meat to the Estonian market, but have transported pigs out of Estonia alive. Hence the large share of imported meat. But now they want to sell meat here because exports from these zones are prohibited.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U319	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U320	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Preventing the spread of plague is of no use if we are looking for who was once wrong or who could have done something different. It is obvious that the preventive measures taken by the country have not been sufficient. What is the concrete action plan of the government today, 21 September, which you believe will lead to a rapid resolution of the disease and at least restore the pre-crisis situation in pig farming?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U321	Honourable questioner! Surely we should agree on a definition of what a quick retreat means. When we look at the experience of Portugal and Spain, we see that it lasted several decades. I would be very pleased if we could do this in Estonia in five to ten years. That would mean a quick retreat. There are several directions to our agenda. One part relates to compensation for direct economic damage. These losses have proved to be the biggest problem for the sector. The second direction relates to what the government has done in addition to agreements at European Union level. I am thinking of increased biosecurity requirements and measures to implement them, including to mitigate the impact of the cost of money. Thirdly, we are negotiating with the European Union to alleviate certain conditions in the third potential trading zone. But we all need to understand in this Chamber and in the entire Republic of Estonia that those countries that are not affected by the disease are also monitoring very closely the extent to which these reliefs could come. Of course, they are not interested in the fact that as a result of the relief, the disease moves to countries where it does not yet exist. So our steps are extremely versatile. As regards prevention and also the activity of the outbreak, it is certainly important to note that by now all the county control committees have reviewed their action plans and, if necessary, supplemented them in case the plague reaches one county or another. Possible burial sites have also been reviewed. As the public know, and as the minister from this remote control has said, it is not easy to find a burial place in every county if it proves necessary. But certainly burying isn't our first choice if the plague is discovered somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U322	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U323	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, such a brief question: what is the state of the groundwater in Torma? How is it checked and if so, what is the latest data?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U324	Before the pigs began to be buried in Tormas, tests were carried out on water from wells near the burial site. This monitoring is continued for several years. Specifically, I don't have any data on the latest analysis. They'll probably get to the Environment Minister's desk first and then to the Minister for Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U325	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Siret Kotka, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U326	It's very easy to live like this. No need to think. No need to use your head. You have your boss, he says you need to vote like this. Why wasn't that before? Why was it different in the past? You understand, don't you, who I represent and who is represented, for example, by the Honourable Mart Nutt. Absolutely different electorates! But there are practical problems. They were once related, for example, to family unity, Estonian language learning, exams, citizenship. We could come together and talk, and then somehow they figured it out, and then there was no plague, then there was development. This cooperation lasted at least until 2003 until Res Publica appeared. But that's another story. Res Publica is gone. Try to understand it, though. Don't come here to reprimand us. You don't know what a history has been. How many times have we received a negative response to some completely concrete proposals for a solution, if we have wanted to work together, but we have gotten in the face. At the same time, it's a good thing that someone has appeared in this hall who sees how evil we are, how bad we treat each other. But take the next step, start thinking about how to get over it, how to make sure that when the people have chosen us all, we can all shape Estonia's life. So, yeah, swine plague is, of course, a big problem, but I think that in every area, we will have the same plagues if communication between us doesn't change if your attitude towards us doesn't change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U327	Thank you! No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. This question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U328	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U329	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Here's the question. During the crisis caused by the swine plague, one unpleasant incident, to say the least, occurred in Tormas, with a number of problems and mistakes. I want to ask if the Ministry has learned anything from this. If there is a similar case in Estonia that just as many or more pigs are to be executed, is there a tripartite agreement between the Food and Veterinary Office, the Utilizing Plants of Dead Animals, and the Ministry that these carcases are not buried but sent to a factory somewhere and that the factory can accept them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U330	Honourable questioner! We've been monitoring the power of the Vireen plant at AS one or the other time to eradicate the outbreak. We have tried to exploit the maximum performance that Vireen can achieve. We have also looked at the ways in which we could, in the event of an exceptional need, direct conventional animal waste to the processing of Lithuanian colleagues, for example. There, too, has been calculated with a certain margin of power. If that proves necessary, we will certainly try to use it. Today it has also become clear how much the hourly performance of a mobile burner could be more or less. When it comes to the incineration of animal waste, the records show that the rate of performance was about a ton an hour and that one cycle had to last five hours. Unfortunately, we experienced testing a particular cycle of work, that it was possible to put up a maximum of 3.2 to 4 tons. So clearly less. But I'm sure we'll take into account the capacity of the plant in each particular case. And if it is possible, I stress, if possible, that decision must be taken by the Veterinary Office, in cooperation with a specific disease-stricken operator, to minimise the daily intake and to do the work within, for example, three days, it will certainly be attempted. The aim is, however, to burn the carcasses in the factory.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U331	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U332	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Why has the government not announced an emergency situation and has not launched a crisis protocol? Nor has a threat zone, or quarantine zone, been declared. Why hasn't the army been taken to the rescue so that anything that moves and looks like a wild boar can be pulled down and urticated? I don't understand! Is that really hard to do? Or do you have to burn a bunch of pigs like 60,000? Is there no way it's gonna get there?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U333	Honourable questioner! There have also been opinions among local government leaders that the elimination of gas outbreaks is a pointless activity, and that pigs could be expelled and snipers and machine guns used. I don't think we can do anything like that. The other thing is, if you remember, in the initial phase of the disease, we didn't allow a hunt in the plague areas. This involved giving farmers time to implement more stringent biosecurity measures. In general, in order to declare an emergency situation, it must be clear what this adds to the current situation. It may not make sense to declare a crisis in response. It does not make sense to date's assessments because the actions agreed upon, planned and approved by the legislator have been sufficient. Indeed, there are cases that have had a negative public response, but the emergency situation would not have helped them either. A lot of human emotions have been involved, and that has also affected decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U334	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U335	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In your previous responses this evening, you gave a pretty thorough overview of the activities undertaken to control the swine plague. The list is impressive, and in recent weeks there is also the hope that the spread of the plague will be contained. Today's news that there is also a plague in Varstu municipality in Võrumaa, of course this hope was shattered, but the situation is not under real control. We heard both last week and today that there is a pretty big injection of money coming from both the European Union and Estonia: 7.6 million, 4 million, 3 million. But my question is rather forward-looking: how much of these millions will come directly to the producer? I'd like to hear from you now what this money can be used for.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U336	Good questioner! Indeed, if the case of Võrumaa is confirmed, the number of pigs killed will increase by more than a hundred. However, this zone will not be expanded. On the one hand, the plague is within the current zone and there is no direct impact on the case. When we are talking about two emergency aid measures, we will have discussions on this in two weeks, both with the pig sector and with the dairy sector. We have an appointment. We certainly want to give this support as targeted as possible, so that it goes directly to the producer, or farmer. This means that the aid that goes into the dairy sector depends specifically on the number and production of cows. And no matter what methodology we take into account in the pig sector, it is certainly based on either pigs or breeding or on some other number. These specific payments will certainly go directly to the farmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U337	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U338	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good minister! I will continue with Mr Tarmo Tamme on informing the population about the African swine fever. I fully agree with Tarmo that there has been little effort to inform it. My country home is in the parish of Suure-Jaani in Viljandimaa, and no information has come from my mailbox that Viljandimaa is also part of the counties where the African swine plague has been discovered and how I should behave. When there was a euro campaign at the end of 2010, quite a few flyers came in my mailbox from the Ministry of Finance, with Jürgen Ligi and Andrus Ansip's faces and information that the euro is coming right away. Then they found the means. Does the Ministry of Rural Affairs really not have the money to report directly on how residents should behave in an area where swine plague has been detected?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U339	Honourable questioner! I very much hope that, regardless of whether or not some paper comes into your mailbox from time to time, you are still informed that going to the forest is now associated with risks. [[In the diner.]] I'm trying to finish my answer. When we conducted a study of how people are informed about the swine plague, the result was contrary to your opinion: the swine plague is very well informed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U340	Ladies and gentlemen, Good manager! Estonian pig farming may be summed up in three words: there is chaos in pig farming. The minister tried to give us answers here, but I don't think he really knows what's going on. Now, if you come to the information that was spoken about here and what was really needed for prevention, I think very few have seen the information leaflet that the Minister told us about today. If they are distributed on the Estonian border, this will be of little use. The people of Estonia do not go to many border crossings where leaflets are offered. If we draw parallels with Latvia, I think we should learn from the Latvians in controlling the swine plague. They launched a very massive television commercial that revealed how one person had to behave in the forest and what he had to do if he noticed anything suspicious. Estonia did not do so, even though the pig farmers informed the Minister for Agriculture at the time that such a notification was absolutely necessary. As for the red zone, frankly, I've had a little fun hearing today. In the Committee on Rural Affairs, both the head of the Food and Veterinary Office, Ago Pärtel, and the Minister for Rural Affairs, have spoken several times about how red zones are being established and how they are being prescribed from Europe. And now suddenly the minister tells us that it is not really clear how they will be imposed, and worse: we do not know how to get out of the red zone. What does that mean? This means that if there is a disorder in the Ministry, it will be amplified by repeated efforts to raise pigs in Estonia. We now have 95,000 domestics in the red zone. Basically, every pig farmer is moaning because they really don't know where they're supposed to sell their pigs. Industrialists offer as low a price as possible for these pigs. So the situation is actually very bad. Twenty thousand pigs have been executed, but it's only the tip of the iceberg. Worse can wait for us. I am thinking, above all, of the development of Estonian pig farming. So I recommend to the Minister for Rural Affairs that he take it much more seriously. Estonian pig farmers have approached the Minister with a request to support them in two consecutive years with 15 million euros each. The Government of the Republic could meet pig farmers and really keep and protect pig farming. We are already in a situation where we are bringing 44.6% of the pork consumed into Estonia. If this continues and we still have to execute the domestic swine because of infection, then at some point on our Christmas table we may not see any more Estonian pork. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U341	Thank you. The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Märt Sultsi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U342	Honourable President-in-Office! Dear colleagues! If the school teacher doesn't know the subject, he says I don't know, that's it. If the teacher says 'I don't know' three times in one hour, he's gonna have to quit. If the teacher can't decide what to do with Jussi or Juhan, who's already screwed up, he's gonna have to quit. If there's a crisis, someone falls down the stairs, the teacher needs to know what to do. He doesn't call the health department, he doesn't ask, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, In that time, a person might die. I'm asking Tara, for God's sake, not to have a shot at this thing, but let's say that Minister Kruuse is bitten by a rattlesnake in Africa. He's gonna call Estonia and ask me what I'm gonna do. Ah, call Health Services, see what we can get out of there. Then he gets cut off, then the next piece, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth, the seventh, and he knows he doesn't get the cure, he dies before help comes. But the body is good, the pussy. In fact, it's possible to heal as soon as you cut your hands off. Okay. What do we do now? You don't dare decide, your department doesn't have the guts to decide. What the hell?! Siret said we're not gonna have pork on our Christmas table soon. Okay, we can eat something else, but soon there won't be any milk on the table. Soon there will be no people sitting around the table. Power and strength for you! Fire in the hole! Do not declare a crisis, do not declare an emergency! Let's talk, let's sit down, there's two weeks left. Power and strength!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U343	I would now like to ask you to speak on the subject, Mr Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U344	Thank you, Mr President. Minister Kruuse took my question as an attack, although I thought I was trying to make a good recommendation on how to inform the public. Indeed, as a member of the Riigikogu, I know what African swine fever means, what dangers are there when you go to the forest on mushrooms, etc., but there are very many people who are not members of the Riigikogu and who do not order a county newspaper. For example, in Viljandi County, only 6000 people are ordered by Sakala, but there are somewhat more people living in the county. And if it's limited to publishing information in county newspapers, it's not enough. I really advise the Ministry of Agriculture to contact local authorities to share information in the municipal newspapers that appear in free mailboxes. I would also suggest that you think, as was done in Latvia, about television advertising and also about an information flyer that could reach any mailbox. I think the problem is very serious, and the Ministry should work harder to prevent people from spreading disease with their feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U345	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U346	President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! You're not in a comfortable position. Indeed, this is a very difficult situation and there is no urgent solution to it. I completely agree with you in that respect. However, I would like to say that this is a system crisis; the problem is not just a swine plague. This is a wider agricultural crisis. We also have dairy farmers groaning under difficulties. We do not know what could happen to our crop growers. It is enough that one link collapses, and this sector is also in great difficulty. I do not want to prick and prosecute at all right now, but I would like to remind you that already during the election campaign, our party has proposed a number of fully feasible steps to promote rural development and improve the situation in agriculture. First, we need to restore the top-up. As far as I know, next year's budget doesn't want to see it coming, but you can be sure that in this hall, it's going to be a hard fight. Top-up would be very necessary. Secondly, a fair price is needed and would ask not to confuse any market prices and competition with the support shops. And not only to support the pig farming sector, but also to support the dairy sector, and perhaps somewhere else here, there is already a place for the brains of specialists. This is an opportunity for the country to acquire certain strategic reserves, an opportunity to support people in need. There are a variety of possibilities, just a little brain movement, not based on the Excel table. Thirdly, perhaps this is the most fundamental; we are talking day after day about the so-called refugees, of whom the vast majority are simply immigrants of convenience, we talk a lot about solidarity. But we are also talking about solidarity in supporting the Estonian agricultural sector. At a time when our farmers receive four times as much support as the French, we have no reason to talk about solidarity. We are fighting for solidarity on every front, not just where we are being called upon by the great powers! This is the third and most important instrument in the current context for our agriculture and rural life. And let me remind you, Mr Minister, that this is specifically your ministry and your own most important area of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U347	Thank you. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U348	If African swine fever is the case, then African swine fever is what we are talking about. I sat for quite a while and thought about the words that sounded about an hour ago. Mrs. Aunaste was talking about how angry we are and how evil we are to communicate badly with each other. But I ask you, don't you see the problems of the system in all of this? Well, even today, swine plague, diesel fuel, any other subject. Where do they come from? Don't you think a person needs to think to solve a problem? We can see by itself that when a person thinks, he uses his brain. Both hemispheres, not one. That would be physiologically impossible. But politically, it's possible. You come here and accuse us of being angry and very evil here. You know, this Parliament, by the way, is much better than the previous composition in terms of its ability to communicate. That's a plus. But he's going to be way below what was in the 1990s. I started with IX in 1999. Take a look at my colleague Vladimir Velman's office. You can see 14 frames on that wall. There are draft laws in the frames. I'll explain to you why they're hanging there. I was sitting in that office in IX, and when I left it later, they stayed on that wall. These are 14 drafts, some of which have my signatures, some have my and Kreitzberg's, some have mine and Velman's signatures, and they went through when we were in opposition. So there has been a time in this Parliament when Parliament used both hemispheres. And the Troubles solved. You may consider it a coincidence that the most successful years for the Estonian state were at the beginning of this century. But then there was a good tradition, there was cooperation. In 1999-2003 it was that, if a problem had to be solved, for example, Mart Nut once, and Andres Taimla and I sat down and talked like people, even though I was in opposition. And we passed the information on to our political groups. You know, strangely enough, it wasn't like someone started talking about no way to let it pass, these drafts are from another camp. After all, it comes from the left or right hemisphere of the brain, you can't support it. Remember last Thursday? Was the question of gardening cooperatives in the city of Narva unclear? This is a purely pragmatic, simple problem that should have been solved a long time ago. Why did you vote in favour of the Commission proposal, even though you knew that there were split votes? Because I'm from the other pack. You have your own pack, I have my own pack, and we don't go together. You're one hemisphere, I'm the other, and we're not getting any normal results. And neither can you, you have half-decided decisions. Well, it can't be the only one in power that thinks and tries to be the smartest all the time. It's not really like that. And it makes you angry when it lasts for years and years. And now, here you go! This African swine fever in Latvia was somehow overcome, we did not. Maybe it's because there wasn't enough cooperation. Maybe those people who could suggest the right thing at the right time are on the other side of this center right here. So before you start judging us, think about how you would feel if you were in our situation if you had to sit down for years and not have the opportunity to participate in any process at all. May I have an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U349	It's okay, but it's okay with the African swine fever. Please, extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U350	Let's go to the eighth question, represented by Martin Repinski. The enquiry is specifically marked for increasing the excise duty rate on diesel and bears the number 55. Rural Minister Urmas Kruuse answers the question. I would like to ask the Riigikogu's speech chair, Martin Repinski, to present the content of the inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U351	Ladies and gentlemen, My inquiry is directly related to agriculture. As we all know, in June this year the Riigikogu approved a bill that raised several taxes. Among other things, it is now foreseen to increase excise duty on diesel fuel that has been specially labelled for several years. As from 1 January of the following year it shall rise to EUR 133 per 1000 litres, in 2016 the rate shall be EUR 111, in 2017 EUR 133 and in 2018 EUR 146 per 1000 litres. At the moment, this rate is, as you all know, 110 euros and 95 cents. So in three years, excise duty will increase by about 32%. That's almost one third. It is clear that the state must receive money from somewhere in the budget, and perhaps a few years or even a year and a half ago that would have been a very sensible step. This excise duty should increase proportionally, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, with the excise duty on ordinary diesel. But as we all know, it is probably not forgotten that many days ago farmers came here to Toompea to demand either money or some benefits and a little attitude. Of course, this has nothing to do with the fact that they're very rich, but they want to get richer. Rather, they have very difficult times, which I am sure our Minister for Rural Affairs knows. I mean, after this demonstration and after these last cases, I mean that either yesterday or today, the best cow was sent to the slaughterhouse last year and that a lot of dairy farms were shut down at all, even though I think they are the most important for Estonian agriculture, we should think carefully about the planned change and postpone this increase in excise duty for two or three years or more. Once the situation has stabilised, perhaps it is worth coming back to this issue. In this regard, I have some questions that the Minister for Rural Affairs has certainly read and has answers to. For example, I am very interested in the level of excise duty on diesel specifically labelled in other European countries. It is known, for example, that Latvia and Lithuania do not have it at all. Of course, there are limits to the amount of fuel that can be used per hectare, but farmers do not pay this excise duty. Recently, we are talking a lot about the need for European farmers to be equal. Our farmers compete with other farmers on the common European Union market, and if Latvian and Lithuanian farmers do not have to pay this excise duty, but ours do, that means that competition is unequal and the Estonian buyer, who prefers domestic food, has to pay more than the Latvian and Lithuanian buyers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U352	Thank you. Please answer the Riigikogu speech chair's question by the Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U353	Honourable President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Guests! The first question: 'Do you not think that, in these difficult times for farmers, if there is no clear future for the dairy sector, it is unreasonable to increase taxes and excise duties that affect the agricultural sector? " The dairy industry is certainly going through difficult times, as several negative factors have been identified at the same time. I am thinking of abolishing quotas for the production of raw milk, the Russian embargo and the lack of clarity on the market. This has all had an impact on the buying-in price. Experts have said that this is temporary ambiguity and that it is likely that the volatility will end, but it is certainly not worth the hope that in the near future, the buying-in price of milk will return to EUR 40 per 100 kilograms. This certainly does not seem real knowing the current state of things. When we talk about the tax increases referred to by the good questioner, the farmer is really most directly concerned with the change relating to the increase in excise duties on fuel. What is very important, however, is that, when skeptics thought that the distinction for farmers would be abolished, it is not really planned to lose it now. We consider the interests and opportunities of this sector. In general, the country plans to reduce taxes on labour, which will also have an impact on the agricultural sector, as well as increasing child support and other positive steps that will have a wider impact. 'Do you think that an increase in farmers' costs simply to maintain the relative advantage compared to conventional diesel is reasonable at a time when the price of milk falls, we will not pay top-up subsidies and will have to pay quota fines? ' Indeed, the price of milk is falling, but, as the government has said in its recent decision, the transitional aid, or the old-name top-up, to one degree or another, already exists in the budget for next year. The amount depends on the European Commission's decision: whether we can pay out additional emergency support. If we cannot pay it out, then the so-called 'transition grant' will be 7,6 million from next year's state budget. If we can pay out $3 million in exceptional circumstances this year, it's $4.6 million. Anyway, the top-up is there. And if you look at the list of cases where special diesel fuel can be used in agriculture, you can see that we have made one additional decision. This fuel can also be used in dryers, so far there was no clause. This decision is based on the desire to increase the competitiveness of the sector, we understand the concerns of farmers also in the context of the overall increase in excise duty. The third question: 'Why does the Estonian Government increase the competitive advantage of Latvian and Lithuanian farmers by increasing the excise duty rate on special-marked fuel, because it exempts special-marked diesel from excise duty? Have you carried out a study on the impact of an increase in the excise duty rate on specially labelled fuel? ' Yes, we have studied it - and we have also made it known that indeed, the greatest impact on both the farmer and the consumer in terms of increased excise duties on fuel is linked to the price of fuel on the world market. If we are currently looking at the OECD crude oil price forecast for the year 2015-2018 and we are also taking into account the possible additional excise duty that we have already agreed on, then it can certainly be said that the overall price will in any case be much lower than the average price level for 2014. In fact, this means, in summary, a higher cost than the one I am referring to, in this respect, a purely financial impact on world market prices. So the most important influence is the price on the world market. 'What is the excise duty on specially labelled diesel used in agriculture in other European countries? ' Information on the prices of fuels which are specially labelled and subject to a rate of excise duty in agriculture is available on the website of the European Commission twice a year. These data also reflect additional conditions in force in different Member States. In many countries, this regulation provides for partial cost compensation, use limits or other additional requirements. Why hasn't Estonia gone this way? This is certainly linked to the administrative burden and the complexity of this whole principle. For this reason, we have based ourselves on the principle that special fuel can be used for a specific purpose. If we look at the state of play published on the Commission's website on 1 July 2015, we will notice, as the good questioner observed when he asked his question, that there is also a country where this rate is zero. However, according to the new set of rules, there should be no zeros in this table. With regard to the new rules on State aid, changes to the schemes must be notified, but it seems to me that some countries have not been able to provide fresh information. So this row with zeros is the old information that doesn't take into account the rulebook change that came into force on 1 January 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U354	Thank you. There are some questions for you. Let's keep going. Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U355	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I just want to explain why I also asked the last question of the question of whether you can assure Estonian farmers that they will still be able to use specially labelled diesel fuel in the future. The reason is that at the beginning of the summer or in May, the Minister of Finance gave us a hint that it could be lost in the future. It is not certain that such fuel will continue to be used in Estonia. The Minister said that there is no such thing in some European countries. At least tell me what you think right now. Do you think it has to stay or could it ever be lost?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U356	Yes, I can say that because my personal opinion is also reflected in the coalition agreement, where farmers have been left with the option of'special treatment' of diesel specifically labelled. And I'm gonna stick to that position as long as I'm in this position.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U357	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U358	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Firstly, I can tell you that there is no need to address the European Commission. 21 million euros of transitional support can be freely planned for the state budget next year. There is no need for any special authorisation for this; the European Union will allow it. Write it into the 21 million budget, and the farmers will be happy. But that's what worries me. In addition to the fact that our country's subsidies for farmers are lower than in Latvia and Lithuania, Estonia will increase the excise duty on diesel further. How do you stand up for your sector and how do you defend its interests in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U359	The honourable previous questioner asked if there was a possibility of losing the distinction. As Minister for Rural Affairs, I can say that a distinction is necessary. Secondly, we talked about top-up as transitional support. We are asking for the Commission's permission so that emergency support can be paid out quickly. If you listened carefully, you may have realized that 7.6 million could be divided into two. This is because we would like to quickly pay out 3 million in support and 4.6 million in transitional support, at least next year. That's the difference. But I certainly don't agree that we could pay out the whole top-up 21 million. There are better times in the cereals sector, and we should distribute subsidies in a targeted way. As far as the dairy sector is concerned, we have only 9.1 million to use there, also next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U360	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U361	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Have you even discussed the fact that diesel fuel is exempt from excise duty in Latvia and Lithuania? You said you've stood for the specialty of special-marked diesel. But have you been somewhere, I don't know, in the Ministry of Rural Affairs or in the government, discussing that since the Baltic market is like a single market, perhaps an Estonian farmer could be treated in the same way as a Latvian and Lithuanian farmer?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U362	I've been thinking about it, and we've been discussing it. I have a question on my mind that I have not yet received an answer to. Despite the high level of support for Latvian and Lithuanian farmers, we sell a lot of pork and milk there. We're taking our products out more and more. As Minister for Rural Affairs, I do not really want the opposite situation to arise. I do not want that if we start treating Estonian farmers equally with our neighbours, the Latvians and Lithuanians will start delivering milk to us and our people will be able to sell the rest of our produce. But when it comes to the distinction in Latvia and Lithuania, it has to be said that it is a limited use of diesel. In Latvia, it is 60 to 130 litres per hectare per year. However, we have unlimited use.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U363	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U364	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would point out that your last reply on this support and export was quite abstract and certainly not mathematically true. I still think it makes sense that if we support an Estonian farmer, his ability to increase exports will increase, and this certainly does not confer an advantage on the Latvians. But that's it. We are still talking about the situation of Estonian farmers throughout the European market, in this friendly family of Europe, where everyone is tolerant, tolerant, equal. At the same time, I'm surprised at one thing. We are talking about solidarity in the European Union, we are helping refugees, we are accepting immigrants, we are paying Greek debts, we are solidaritying in all respects. However, what do you think of me personally, I am not asking for the government's position, but for you as an individual's position, why is Europe not solidarity with us when it comes to agricultural subsidies?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U365	Honourable questioner! If we recall the time when the common agricultural policy came into being in Europe, it was already created for one or two very clear reasons in 1950. in the 1990s. This was linked to the failure to produce as much food in Europe as it was necessary to consume, and prices were very high. This was also the case with a certain support system. Now we have come to a whole new situation on a whole European scale. You're talking about inequality. In this sense, you are right that grants have never been distributed in terms of production. Production was 6 tonnes per hectare in one country, but several times smaller in Estonia and another. This difference was the basis for the calculation at a particular point in x. Now the subsidies are decoupled, and if we think about the previous governments that have negotiated, their main objective is that we reach 100% of the European average with the support of Estonian farmers. We have achieved, as a result of the negotiations during this period, that our support reaches 75%, and now we are already negotiating with the aim that if it continues in the next period, we will reach 100%. While we also take into account the share of subsidies in sales revenue, it is certainly not possible to say that subsidies are very unequal. After all, all inputs, including land prices, labour costs, etc. must be taken into account. But it is more certain that, if the common agricultural policy were not in the wider key, larger and richer countries would have more significant advantages than they do now. So that's a question of many ends. Can't say in one word that all the conditions are worse for us. If, for example, we look at average pig production figures, it cannot be said that Estonian pig production is the most effective in Europe, but it has developed greatly if we compare it with any output in all countries. So I'm going to stick to the fact that in some respects this inequality, which statistically stands out, exists. But if we also compare the total packages with Latvians and Lithuanians, we will see that the inequality is not very great. My main concern is, in fact, the market, and I very much hope that this crisis will motivate our farmers to move more towards cooperative activity. This will make it easier to influence sales and the market. If this does not happen, a single farmer may produce even more efficiently than he is now, but in the long run, it will be clearly more difficult for him to overcome the crisis than for those who, together in good times, can raise a crisis fund or whatever we call it. At one point, when a crisis has arisen again, this money can be mobilised.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U366	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U367	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm going to ask you a slightly different angle about specially labelled fuel. We all know that one of the reasons for the unequal conditions of competition between Estonian farmers is unequal subsidies, in particular unequal direct payments. At the same time, different tax policies distort the competitive environment. And I'm asking your opinion now. What do you think if the excise duty on special-marked diesel were treated as State aid throughout the European Union? After all, the question of prohibited State aid would be raised immediately. Perhaps this advantage could be eliminated at all over the European Union as a whole, then the distortion of competition that farmers can sense today because of the different prices of fuel across the European Union. What's your opinion? Perhaps this issue should be raised in Brussels and referred to as prohibited State aid and propose the harmonisation of the excise duty on this fuel?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U368	Honourable questioner! I have been able to serve as Minister of Rural Affairs for a short time. But having participated in the meetings and other negotiations that are taking place at European Union level, I have come to believe that the direction towards a more free market economy is obvious. Let's just take the disappearance of milk quotas and the current transition period. It cannot at all be ruled out that at some point in the European Union this advantage is treated in this way. But in my opinion, it is a little early to make an assessment at first, because moving towards a free market economy is also diametrically different in different countries. We cannot say that everyone has taken this very seriously. At the same time, it is certain that our agricultural sector will also be much more competitive thanks to new investments, which have indeed come about in a great deal by means of additional subsidies. However, I believe that more free market economy in Europe as a whole would certainly help our farmers much further.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U369	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U370	Colleagues! I actually want to thank my colleagues, Jaak Madison and Helir-Valdor Seeder, for having already talked about several of my thoughts. I also wanted to talk about this: if we are loyal and equal in Europe, then we should be equal in all matters, not only when it is needed by the richer countries or when help is needed by refugees or Greece. Then Estonia must be loyal. I am not saying this to say that someone is doing their job badly or that the European Union is working in the wrong direction. I just want our government and our Minister for Rural Affairs to have a concrete understanding that if he goes to Europe next time to negotiate, he will know that he must stand up for these principles. As long as agricultural subsidies are not equal in Europe, Estonia should not want to help Greece or accept refugees under the same conditions as other countries. This is also about excise duty and subsidies for special-marked diesel. If we're equal, we're equal! Perhaps, indeed, to propose the abolition of European subsidies at all. It is clear that this now sounds utopian and it is not real, but perhaps we need to work in this direction and explain to our colleagues in other countries that, if subsidies are not equal, they could be abolished at all so that competition is equal. It's the same with the fuel. It is claimed that Estonia produces 2.5 times less agricultural products per hectare than in other parts of Europe on average, and that is why we need to receive less support. I don't think that makes any sense. I think it's the other way around. If we have unfavourable conditions, even for a short period of vegetation, or other climatic conditions are not as favourable as, for example, in the Netherlands, our farmers should receive even more support so that they can compete equally. But the current argument is quite the opposite. Fortunately or unfortunately, the production-based support system is no longer in force. In general, I think we should talk more about this. There is a crisis in Europe now, there is a shortage of money everywhere, and we need to think all the time about how to deal with less. Let us be honest, we now need money, for example, to help refugees and to participate in other operations. In this way, perhaps we should stop supporting agriculture in Europe at all, including through this rate of excise duty on diesel. We are equal and then we will see who wins, who can do better, either by our Estonian farmers or by farmers from other European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U371	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U372	Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to speak for clarification, otherwise I wouldn't. It was said here that the European Union's subsidies are unequal. It was like a complaint to Europe. I just want to say that we have nothing to blame for Europe. We will take the perspective of the end of this financial period, 2019 and 2020, which are the subsidies for Estonian agriculture and rural areas at all. If we look together at the first and second pillars, both agricultural direct payments and the rural development plan, we will see that our per-hectare payments in 2019 are not at all far from those in Finland. But the area in which we are very far away from Finland is different inputs, whether it is the price of the land or the price of the rent of the land. From this point of view, it is wrong to reproach Europe as if it were unfair to us during this financial period. What can we blame ourselves for? The European Union gave us 1.2 billion in agriculture and rural development in the last period, with 1.7 billion in this period. In addition, the European Union will allow us to decide for ourselves on a number of issues whether or not we want to pay extra. This measure is called the same famous top-up that can soon be written in a Christmas poem. In this respect, it is either EUR 140 million in this period or EUR 140 million in that period. This is exactly the same with the co-financing of the rural development plan. Do we co-finance the implementation of the rural development plan by 15%, as we have agreed, or by 25%, as is possible? In essence, the Estonian state could be added to the order of 100 million according to my recollection. The third question is what we are writing in the rural development agenda, which measures. Are there environmental measures, such as Natura land or Natura forests? Or should some rural and agricultural measures be financed separately from the budget of the Ministry of the Environment, for example? All in all, we have nothing to blame for the European Union in general. We have to blame for the way we do things in our own country. From the perspective of the new budgetary perspective, the European Union has behaved quite nicely with us, and a large part of the decisions depend on us, 101 people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U373	Would Minister Kruuse like another word? No, I don't. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U374	The next question is submitted by members of the Riigikogu Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velmani, Olga Ivanova, Erki Savisaare, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korbi and Mailis Repsi. On behalf of the heirs, Mikhail Stalnukhin takes the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U375	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, In order to understand the content of the question, I will begin Napoleon's time in France. At that time, the first forensicsman acted there, according to our understanding. If my memory isn't fooled, his name was Joseph Fouché, a former criminal and a very effective fighter with crime, only he had trouble identifying the criminals. His method looked like this, about the size of our hall, but in the middle of a round room, spies sat around and criminals walked around, and for hours the spies tried to remember the faces of the criminals. Clearly, such a system could not be effective. Progress: After a few decades, a man named Bertillon appeared, a great and very famous archaeologist, I don't remember now, either son or grandson, and he figured out a method that was called bertillionage. He was convinced that if you take certain places on the human body and measure the differences between them, the sequence of proportions is original for every human being. A young man, a little over 20 years of trouble, but then it turned out that criminals were really identifiable that way. But the system was very complicated and it was difficult to use, because it was done in a melancholy and measured as the left leg wished, and often failed to achieve anything. And once again, progress. Two men who came from England and worked in colonies did not distinguish local people face by face, they were then Indians or Chinese, and suddenly they discovered that fingerprints would never happen again. Two men, regardless of each other, made this discovery and offered a dactyloscopy. After that, it has proved itself all over the world. However, problems began to arise in the 1930's when the men of Chicago and New York began to try to get rid of the fingerprints. For example, sandpaper tried to rub down these lines and to get rid of them by burning them, even trying to replant the skin from its ass. But it turns out it's not helping anything. When the skin has grown into a new place, he'll change his structure and the fingerprints will come back. So from the 1930s, the entire civilized world knows that in life, from about 18 days to death, the fingerprints won't change. Our Home Office doesn't know that. If you complete your passport, you will be fingerprinted. And if you're going to file any other document in two years, you're going to have to print it again. I was asked about this interesting crime at the beginning of our consul in Sankt-Peterburg because it relates to certain problems for people who have to file documents and, if it has been over two years, to find a place where fingerprints can be provided again. This question has also been raised by a person who in Estonia has so formalised documents and does not fully understand why he has to undergo this procedure twice in two and a half years. So the name of the inquiry is 'Absolutely about bureaucracy in issuing documents' and I personally would like to know why we in Estonia think that the fingerprints will change. By the way, I've been asking and I've learned that once you've given me the prints are in the database, they won't be expelled. For which, after two years and one day, they must be given again and thus wasted their time, official time, a certain technical resource, that is what they do not understand. I apologize for bothering you with such a small problem, it's not a pig plague, of course, but it's still an interesting subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U376	Mr Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U377	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you to the interviewer for such a nice fictional introduction to such a small problem, as he himself rightly said! Let's go through these questions quickly. The first question was that if a person's fingerprints do not change, what is the reason for the requirement to redefine every two years? Fingerprints on the document chip shall be occupied when submitting an application for a travel document and a residence card. I would like to stress that it is precisely when the application is made. When issuing the document, fingerprints will be taken again, with the aim of comparing biometric data. The fingerprints on the chip of the document shall be compared with the fingerprints of the applicant. In electronic identification of electronic documents, it is essential that biometric data are of the highest quality and reliable possible. As the data age, their reliability decreases. Also, over time, the technology for capturing and storing and processing fingerprints will become more accurate and high-quality, as one important paper says. Thus, when two reasons are raised, it can be said that the need for a person to be dactyloscopy is due to the fact that the person has been identified unambiguously and seriously. Secondly, the fingerprints taken from the applicant must be technically processed and be of good quality for identification purposes throughout the period of validity of the document. Speaking of quality, the inquisitor correctly stated that the fingerprint would not change. But the quality of the fingerprint can change and it can affect the unique papilla arc. For example, it may take time or be damaged. If you cut your finger, the fingerprint has changed, and it is also possible to deform it due to the disease, etc. If the finger gets between the two stones, the print changes, there's nothing to do. If the quality of the fingerprints has changed, it may also reduce the likelihood of a hit in a future comparison from the chip of the document. I would also like to say that in 2004, the European Union has laid down the obligation to use biometric data, including fingerprints, in the documents of the citizens of the Member States. When asked why we are using them or why we are occupying them again, it must be taken into account that biometric documents allow individuals to use e-gates, for example, or ABC gates, where biometric data are removed from the document chip and compared with data put in the person's scanner. If these data are not fresh, a person may have a problem. He can't get through the ABC Gate and direct a routine check. And then we're all upset why the ABC gate doesn't work. Doesn't work because the prints aren't high enough. The second question of the inquiry is what interferes the Government of the Republic with the initiation of an amendment to the law with a view to abolishing the requirement of repeated dactyloscopy. I understand that this is still two years, and I must point out that people do not have to go to the Police and Border Guard Board every two years to give new fingerprints. They are usually taken again when a person goes to apply for a new document at the end of the validity of the passport or residence card. We know that the term of validity of the passport is five years and the members of the Riigikogu have been proposed that it should be ten years in the future. I've been supporting it for ten years. The validity of the residence card is linked to a specific person, up to a maximum of five years. If a person's personal or residence card is stolen or destroyed before the expiry date and a person is therefore going to apply for a new document, he or she will not need to be fingerprinted if less than two years have elapsed since the previous dactyloscopy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U378	Questions for the Minister. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U379	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I understand from your answer that the first reason why they are taken the second time is that a person needs to be identified. If I come and present my document, which I received a little over two years ago, there's my picture, if I have any other documents, I have to give my fingerprints because you don't believe the document I'm filing. It's the same document I was given in the same department I've come to. But how was it before? How'd you get over that trouble when the prints weren't taken yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U380	I'm sorry, what's your problem? I mean, this procedure takes a few decades. You put your finger in the fingerprint log, and this procedure will take place in seconds. That's one. Secondly, it's all for the good of the people themselves, so they can get through e-gates, ABC gates, for example, quickly. This is all for their own good: so that you do not have to wait in order to pass through the ABC gate, which already exists at the new Narva terminal and Tallinn airport. This will allow for faster border crossings. If you want the border crossing not to be quick, let's not take prints. I've realized it makes life easier. If we are talking about an Estonian citizen who has a passport, he will not take fingerprints more often than the validity period of the passport. Like I said, it could be ten years soon. You will only issue here residence card holders and it makes sense that new biometric data will be occupied when you extend your residence card. Like I said, it's a matter of a few decades. I don't understand this problem at all. Whether to allow a person to cross the border more quickly, he or she is unable to spend or does not want to spend 20 seconds putting his or her fingers on a fingerprint log or on a plate that fixes a person's fingerprints to understand hard.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U381	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U382	I'm taking the floor for myself right now. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. It's not about crossing the border. Yeah, it's more comfortable. But don't you understand? It's one thing to use a fingerprint when you pass through a gate. It's another thing to always find out that I'm the one when I come to exchange some kind of document. You see, maybe you can't feel it, but it's kind of funny. The whole world knows they won't change. They don't change, you give them once! If there's any doubt, why not call in a person, get the prints back and check them out. It's just too much bureaucracy. What do you need it for? I'll tell you a story I was born a few weeks ago, if that's what you're talking about. A Dutch journalist made a passport in Turkey, and it cost him EUR 750, if you believe him. I don't know how to read that name, such an Arabic name. He made this passport, presenting a picture of the Dutch Prime Minister there. He came to the Netherlands with this passport to prove how easy it is, in fact, to fake European documents. In the author of this document, no one saw any danger there, the passport looked quite genuine. I understand that fingerprints are needed because practice shows that, for example, false images are very easy to obtain on a document. But once again, the prints won't change in life. I'm gonna press somewhere with my finger and open the door, it's very convenient, that's great. But why the red tape again? Okay, it takes seconds, but 130,000 people need, I don't know, maybe every two years, new documents. So huge a number of operations, what do you need it for? Yeah, it's up to you, of course, but I think it's just bureaucracy. It's good for someone, people don't need it. We could save the state's money and stop taking that money from people, but you're pretending you don't understand what this is about. So that's our dialogue. Offer no matter what, no matter how useful and resource-saving, no one listens. Why? Because I'm not in your pack like we talked to Maire here. It is not advisable to speak again. There's such a big difference between us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U383	Would the Minister like to speak again? Secretary of the Interior Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U384	I'm really sorry you guys aren't listening to what I'm saying. I hope nothing happens to you that you leave your finger in the door or in the drawer or that your finger will otherwise be damaged so much that your fingerprint will be distorted. Then try to get through that fingerprint reader! I'm saying you can't have it. Repeat procedures are precisely for such cases. It's not hard to put a finger in a fingerprint log for ten seconds, and the machine will do the job. It's all for your own good, for the sake of those people who cross the border who are issued with a residence card. If you do not want to understand this, you can say that it is bureaucracy. I say it is not bureaucracy, it is a normal process. Whoever applies for a passport will receive it for five years and ten years in the future. Whoever applies for a residence card will receive it for as long as it is assigned to him. Any one of us could have something that would change a fingerprint, and the technique needs to understand what your valid fingerprint is. The question is not whether the state understands who you are, while the state understands, do not worry, but the machine must also understand who you are.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U385	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U386	Our next question is presented by the members of the Riigikogu Enn Eesmaa, Tarmo Tamme, Rein Ratas, Viktor Vassilyev, Olga Ivanova, Erki Savisaare, Jaanus Kariladi, Aadu Musta, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korbi, Mailis Reps and Dmitri Dmitriyev, and it deals with action within the framework of the international agenda on migration in Europe. Please speak on behalf of Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U387	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. In December 2014, ministers of the European Union adopted Council conclusions on 'Migrations in European Union development cooperation'. The conclusions highlighted the need to help partner countries increase their capacity to deal with migrants and to contribute to raising awareness on migration-related issues: return, criminal networks, human trafficking, human rights. The positive aspects of migration were highlighted, as many emigrants are helping to return knowledge, technology and even resources to their homeland. They also contribute to the development of the country of destination, for example by setting up businesses. In May this year, the European Commission published a Communication entitled "A European Agenda on Migration', which addresses both the root causes of migration and the fight against poverty and the strengthening of measures to prevent irregular migration. The Communication also addresses support for legal and controlled migration. The Estonian Government must be guided by the positions of our country in December 2014 in the Cabinet of Government and the same month in the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu at the December meeting of the Ministers of Development of the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union. Our inquiry has been completed on 10 June. Today is September 21st and situations have changed greatly, but some questions remain. 'Is Estonia prepared to coordinate more effectively between the sectoral structures of the European Union, as well as between the Member States' own policies, to acknowledge and implement development coherence? Can Estonia contribute to creating decent living conditions in the main countries of origin of emigration? " And thirdly, " What can we do to increase the security we consider to be the main cause of migration in the countries of origin? " We hope for exhaustive answers, and we will certainly ask questions, given the state of things today. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U388	Mr Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U389	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I am happy to discuss migration with you today and it seems that many times in the near future. In particular, these questions, if the inquisitors allow us to refer to them, most of their content falls within the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But we have a whole government, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we were able to review the issues and we tried to write everything down nicely to answer the questioners. The first question is whether Estonia is prepared to coordinate more effectively between the sectoral structures of the European Union, as well as between the policies of the Member States themselves, to acknowledge and implement development coherence. We have a nice concept, policy coordination for development, which has been shortened to PCD and translated into Estonian as 'coherence of policies in development cooperation'. I'm sure the representative of the inquisitives knows that very well. And he also knows that all the countries of the European Union, including Estonia, are bound by a PCD agreement. According to this, other policies should support the achievement of development cooperation objectives, and it is important that policies with a major international impact do not nullify joint contributions to development aid. A broader awareness and more effective implementation of the principles of policy coherence is also one of the clear priorities of the current Luxembourg Presidency of the European Union and we are very pleased that this is one of their priorities in the area of development cooperation. Certainly, Estonia supports the Presidency and is also guided by this principle in planning its development cooperation. If we look at our development cooperation and humanitarian aid agenda up to 2020, it will be in there nicely. The second question: 'Can Estonia contribute to creating decent living conditions in the main countries of origin of emigration? ' Now I'm going to say a little more, but the subject is burning. By way of introduction, it is certainly in our interest to support all measures that would help manage migration already in the region of origin, and we have done so as far as we can. Estonia is the sixth largest contributor to Frontex missions. I think it went through today to answer a question, but let's say it again. Last year we participated in Frontex operations with a total of 85 police and border guards. When it was put on human working days, we were on Frontex missions nearly 3,000, namely 2985 working days. And if you look at what else we've been betting on besides human power, we had a fast boat, a plane, and so on, a smaller technique on Frontex missions. This year we are planning to participate at least in the same volume. At the moment, it seems that this volume has already been exceeded, so we have actually started to increase our volume. Following the European Commission's proposal to triple the budget for joint operations Triton and Poseidon, we also expressed our willingness to channel additional resources into these joint operations, both in terms of people and technology. We also support the strengthening of the role of Frontex in organising joint readmission operations. Now that we come to military operations, there is currently a military or anti-crime maritime operation, EUNAVFOR Med, in the Mediterranean, whose main objective is to prevent illegal smuggling. Estonia's contribution is the participation of one expert. Estonia has contributed to Africa through development cooperation, humanitarian aid and participation in missions. As we know, Estonia participated in the European Union military mission in the Central African Republic, the training mission and the United Nations mission in Mali. We have given humanitarian aid to the Central African Republic, Mali, South Sudan, Sierra Leone, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, Somalia, Chad, Niger and the Democratic Republic of Congo. We have done so in the form of humanitarian aid, mainly through the World Health Organisation (WHO), as well as through UNICEF. As a member of the European Union, we make contributions to the European Development Fund, the bulk of which is directed specifically to support Africa's development. Between 2011 and 2015, Estonia's contribution to the European Development Fund has been around 7.4 million euros. Looking at the contribution that Estonia has made to mitigating the situation in Syria, Jordan, Lebanon, Iraq and Turkey have supported activities there with EUR 1.6 million since the Arab Spring 2011, both through bilateral development cooperation and through the UN humanitarian aid agencies. Experts from the Rescue Team have built a refugee camp in Jordan and participated in UNDAC mission in the Syrian-Turkey border regions of the United Nations crisis assessment and coordination team. NGO Mondo volunteers have done English language and IT training in Jordan, as well as helping civilians in the Za-atari and Azraq refugee camps. I would like to speak separately in Ukraine. Ukraine has, as we know, been one of Estonia's main countries of development cooperation for more than ten years. We will continue to support Ukraine's development in the future by providing both reform experiences and contributions at bilateral level. We are also helping at a multilateral level through programmes and cooperation. Of course, we are always prepared to send additional experts to Ukraine to build up the system there. As far as the financial dimension is concerned, last year assistance to Ukraine amounted to approximately 10% of the total humanitarian aid budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This amount was EUR 1,2 million. This year's development cooperation from humanitarian aid instruments has provided €2.35 million for Ukraine, including 1.1 million for development cooperation and 1.5 million for humanitarian aid. In addition, we have smaller programmes such as allowing students from Ukraine to study in Estonia through the separation of scholarships and the activities of the Eastern Partnership Centre in Ukraine. Since the beginning of last year, Estonia has allocated a total of 1.76 million euros as humanitarian aid to help victims of the conflict in Ukraine and to alleviate the situation of internal refugees. The aid is mainly targeted through international organisations. In addition, both food and medical assistance has been sent and supported by three Estonian non-profit associations, they are Mondo, Estonian Refugees and Ukrainian Cultural Centre. I'll say one more thing, though. When we look at the OSCE's special missions, Ukraine's mission has contributed 12 people last year, and there are currently seven observers on the OSCE's missions. The financial contribution to the OSCE missions shall be EUR 90000. The third question: 'What can we do to increase the security that we consider to be the main cause of migration in the countries of origin? ' Isn't the main action taken in international cooperation and through NATO and European Union operations, both in Afghanistan, Africa, the Middle East, the Balkans and, of course, in the wider Mediterranean region. I'm sure the heirs know our training mission in Mali, Somalia and the Central African Republic. Civilian missions are also known, primarily to Ukraine and Georgia, but also to Afghanistan, Mali, Niger and the Horn of Africa region. I have already mentioned the mission called EUNAVFOR Med, in which our staff officer participates. And we will add Mali, where the European Union and the United Nations missions have a total of 18 of our active troops. Finally, I refer to the agreement between the Estonian and US Foreign Minister, according to which we will contribute USD 500000 each year to the assistance of Afghanistan, of which USD 300000 will go to support the Afghan police and USD 200000 to support the Afghan armed forces. These are the real bets we've made, but right now I'm just sticking to the focus of the questions. As far as I know, we have a chance to talk more about migration. Today, the Committee on European Union Affairs discussed the proposal that the topic of migration could be discussed in a large Chamber as a matter of national importance. Then we will now take this most burning issue on a separate table in this Chamber and discuss it at length.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U390	Questions for the Minister. Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U391	Thank you very much. Thank you for these answers. I certainly also support the idea of discussing refugee issues at all sides of this large Chamber. But now the question. Your German colleague has proposed or even called for the countries of the European Union, including Estonia, to bring refugees and refugees directly from the hotspots to the countries to which they are assigned, leaving out mediators, including too many human traffickers. What's your opinion now? And what is, say, Estonia's opinion on this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U392	Thank you for your question. When we discussed helping 60,000 refugees in the European Union in the summer, this amount was divided into two parts: 40,000 were those who had already arrived in the European Union and 20,000 were those who have not yet arrived. Estonia said that we are prepared to contribute in both parts. It was the joint position of the European Union Affairs Commission and the Government that we are ready to support both contingents, both those who have already arrived in the European Union and those who are outside. In this sense, yes, I am certainly prepared to move on quite quickly with the task of fulfilling the mandate given by both Parliament and the government, which has also been agreed at European Union level to bring people in from outside. At the same time, I believe that the main focus is still on resolving the critical situation within the European Union. And since there are 6 million or more war refugees in the immediate vicinity of the European Union's external borders, say 100 kilometres, it is clear that we must also deal with this. But if you ask me what I think is right to do, I think it would be better to focus the main resource on stabilising the situation in crisis zones. The next step could be to provide additional humanitarian assistance to the nearby countries of the hotspots, where refugee camps exist, and the third step could be that, if there is nothing else left, the most critical people will be relocated to European countries. This could be the gravity of how we behave in compliance with international cooperation and humanitarian aid rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U393	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U394	Good President! Good minister! First of all, it is good to make sure that, as both the Ministry and you as a minister, you have quite well informed yourself about this issue and are working on it. But I have this question: have you also played through crisis scenarios in case this situation in Estonia escalates? Today, we see some pretty crazy situations in Hungary, the Balkans, and also in the mouth of the fast tunnel, via television. If something similar happens in Estonia, is there a scenario? Is there an emergency preparedness? I don't want to scare anybody here, but I want to see if there's such a readiness.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U395	Thank you for your question. In short, I say that, of course, we have tried to play through the various possible scenarios. In the same way, we have assessed our ability, i.e. the number of police forces with their resources able to cope with everyday activities, and what are these "steps," when we need additional help, for example, from the Defence League. We have modeled the situations and assessed our capabilities, but I still think that the exceptional situations are unique. For example, let us recall Estonia's major blizzards. It's like we're always ready for snow plows, we've got sand ready, and yet Padaorg can be in the snow and people can sit there. Resolving each particular situation is always quite different from what has been played out on paper. But I say, the answer is yes, we've played through how to act. I hope that this will never be needed, but if it is needed, it must naturally be based on a specific situation. We do not now know which direction we must take first and foremost. We must take into account all directions, as the Estonian border is a waterline, we have a land border with Russia, which is under one control regime, and the Schengen border, which is under another. We need to be prepared to have more people coming from any direction than we see today every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U396	Honourable, I would remind you that a member of the Riigikogu has the right to one question. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U397	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you and your assistants for their thorough answers to the written questions of the Free Party Group. My question concerns the possible selection of refugees arriving to us. In Estonia, people have been comforted by being able to choose Christians, whole families, etc. Does such a choice actually exist within the framework of international cooperation, or has it simply been said by the members of the government to reassure people?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U398	One principle has been agreed internationally. When it comes to the resettlement of people, which has so far taken place in the framework of 'traditional international cooperation', i.e. in coordination with the UN Commissioner for Refugees, the relocation mechanism that would apply within the European Union has not been used at all. In particular, international practice has been taken into account. One important rule is taken into account there, and this important rule is that people are relocated according to which country of destination they are most likely to adapt to. And this greatest probability of adaptation includes cultural, religious, and linguistic backgrounds. This is a principle which is also accepted by the UN Commissioner for Refugees. Clearly, if we have the most common religion here, Christianity, and Christianity, in turn, Orthodox and Lutheranism, we have much less Catholics and Muslims even less, then it must certainly be taken into account. Our constitution, of course, prohibits discrimination by religion, race, gender or nationality, but in view of how people adapt, it is clear that religious background in one country or another is important.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U399	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U400	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! The issue of refugees has also triggered a number of other problems in Europe. Does the government perceive such a tendency that Juncker's latest proposal is aimed at increasing the decision-making power of the Commission at the expense of the decision-making powers of the Member States? And what could be the activities of the Estonian Government on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U401	This process started in April when Juncker first came up with his proposals. In the natural course of this process, Estonia has always signalled to the Commission that the Member States must have the right to decide. Member States must have the right to participate in the decision-making process, which has such a significant impact on the Member States. When I take the papers submitted to the Council by the European Commission and the Luxembourg Presidency last week to draw conclusions, there is no mention of mandatoryity or that Member States are excluded from the decision-making process. In the meantime, however, in the corridors, you really had the right information about the Commission wanting to come up with something like this. Estonia is supported in this respect by a very large number of Member States which confirm that this is up to the Member States. What kind of paper will be on our table tomorrow, when there will be an extraordinary meeting of the Ministers of the Interior again, and the day after tomorrow, when there will be a Council meeting, I will see that tomorrow morning. The position of Estonia, the position of the Estonian Government, which was repeated today in the Committee on European Union Affairs, has not changed. We still believe that the Member States must be able to play a part in this process; such a decision cannot be made anywhere in the European Commission's room in Brussels.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U402	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U403	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The subject of my question obviously does not fall within the competence of the Minister for the Interior, but since you said that the government is one, I will ask it so that the information can also reach the Minister for Health and Labour. In the Committee on Social Affairs today, it was mainly about the issue of the control and prevention of infectious diseases, but of course the problem of refugees and the fact that refugees can take some diseases with them when they come to Estonia. We also know that their control is planned at Tallinn Airport when they come by plane. But they are also known to reach Estonia in a different way. Where do you think it would be right to check the health of refugees to prevent, for example, hepatitis A, AIDS and tuberculosis getting here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U404	The diseases listed by you are, of course, completely present in Estonia today. There's no way they can get here if they already exist. But my personal view is that we must negotiate this matter with Italy and Greece in particular. That is where ex-ante evaluation and ex-ante health checks should be carried out. In terms of what data we will get from Italy and Greece and what preliminary work has been done there, we hope to get smarter next week when I go to see my Italian colleague. The aim is to negotiate details on how our people will be involved in the evaluation process. In fact, it has also been agreed in the relevant rules that the Member State to which the person arrives and where he or she lodges an application for international protection will also identify and carry out the initial medical examination. Now the question is how thorough this initial medical examination is. Of course, we expect Italy and Greece to make sufficient contributions to ensure that these people are a) identified and b) controlled. But this does not rule out that we have to carry out additional checks, and in the case of additional checks, the question is whether we are doing this there or whether we have to do it here in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U405	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U406	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! Recently, at least in Tallinn, the number of people of foreign origin has increased. Many of them move around with people who most likely seem to be their supporters. My question is whether these so-called refugees are arriving in Estonia now, although the public has been told that they will probably only arrive around the turn of the year. Perhaps this is the arrival of some part of the migratory wave that is devastating southern Europe on its own path to Estonia? Does the Home Office currently have control over these processes? Is there a random document check on the streets and at the border? Or maybe it's my delusions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U407	Thank you for your question. There is also the third option that we are dealing with tourists. We have a lot of cruise tourists. But if you come to the last part of your question, the Police and Border Guard Board, of course, has changed their focus a little, especially in the Old Harbor. As a result, in the last few weeks, some Polish registration plates have been identified in the Old Port, where there have been people who have wanted to travel to Finland without a valid travel document. These people have been identified, these people have been detained. According to the street picture, there is no reason to assume that the persons mentioned by you could be involved, and also, in addition, their supporters. We are not hiding anything from the Estonian people here. If we have decided that now is the right time to help the refugees, and they are getting to Estonia, we will definitely inform the public about this. At the same time, I do not think it would be wise to announce that the plane will arrive at this time of day on that date and come all. We're not gonna do that. It is in the interest of these people's privacy and protection that they arrive here in a perfectly normal way and go to their homes in a perfectly normal way, so that no additional attention is paid to them. They deserve that protection. I suggest that everyone in this Chamber also think more about how to integrate these people, how to guarantee them a normal start to a new life, because these people need international protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U408	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U409	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You claimed that Estonia has the possibility to choose persons to be resettled. There are currently three members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber who were on a working visit to the Committee on Foreign Affairs in Jordan, where we raised this question at a meeting with representatives of the UN Refugee Commissioner's office, and the answer was absolutely clear: we cannot choose; they choose. Instead, I would like to ask you that you claim that Estonia is against quotas and that it is also stated in the foundations of our European Union policy. However, this consistent acceptance of the European Commission's proposals does not support this. If Estonia opposes quotas, why have we not been on a united front with Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary, whose representatives, for example, met yesterday and discussed this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U410	Thank you. I'll start at the end. When we look at the papers, conclusions and other proposals on the European Union's ministerial table, we see no word in them that there are some compulsory quotas. One of them said that, in addition to the 40,000 people that had already been told, another 120,000 people needed help. And that's what we've come from. We have been guided by what is reasonable. Look, when we say that Member States must be able to have a say, that is, in itself, a reference to the fact that voluntary consent must be decided by the Member States. As regards your reference to going to Jordan and the United Nations Commissioner for Refugees, of course they will first propose. I have studied very much how this process is carried out by Finns who have many years of experience. Speaking with my colleague, I have been assured that if the UNHCR gives them a list of people who need international protection in Finland, then the Finnish country will have the right to screen out people who are not suitable for different reasons in Finland. Security is, of course, the main criterion. So the opportunity to have a say in this process definitely exists in Estonia, and that is what we intend to use.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U411	Maire Aunaste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U412	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, A few days ago, I heard in the morning about "Hellovision" that your ministry representative Janek Mägi spoke about the same topic of how soon a team from Estonia will go to a refugee camp in Italy and start selecting people who could move to Estonia. After that, I called the Ministry right away, talked to Janek Mäg and said I'd really like to go along. And I want to go with you because I really care how these people can be chosen. You mentioned safety, or the goal, as the main criterion, that we should not have bad people, and that is, of course, the most important thing. But if there are psychologists on this team, how could the choice of these people work? Do you have any forms developed or how this selection could take place in the short term?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U413	Thank you. Rather, it is that my meeting with my colleague is scheduled for 2 October and we will try to reach an agreement at the level of the authorities by then how many people we can send to Italy, how the Italian State will receive them and all the other technical nuances. We will also try to sign this document on 2 October and, later in October, send our liaison officer to Italy. If the liaison officer has made preparations for the team to go there, we will be happy to take some people from the Riigikogu with us. I don't think it makes any sense for the entire Riigikogu to come along, but some people who wish to come with us. And then we could see everything on the spot with our own eyes. Of course, our opportunities there also depend very much on what the conditions are. It is now in the process of clarification, and if it is clearer, we will definitely let you know immediately. If there is a desire to come, I believe it can also be arranged.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U414	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U415	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. You stressed a while ago that we should think about how to integrate refugees into Estonian society. Maybe there's no point in inventing a bicycle. You are meeting with ministers from Greece and other countries and perhaps producing good ideas about Western Europe, where experience has long been available. How are they integrated elsewhere in society, and what do we have to do here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U416	Thank you. I'm sure we'll explore the experiences of other countries. We will, of course, work closely with our closest neighbours, Sweden and Finland to get to know the best practices, but we will also collect information from elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U417	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U418	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! As you can see, there doesn't seem to be an end to the flow of refugees. It doesn't look like they're gonna lock up on the south side of the border, because nobody's gonna be interested in it. Do you think the next 120,000 or 200,000 people will arrive in a month or a half, who in turn will go to distribution? And how much does Estonia plan to take from there?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U419	Thank you. I really don't want to deal with speculation. Life shows. The sooner we get any signal of the possible emergence of peace in crisis zones, the more we can help people in refugee camps outside the European Union now, the more likely they are that their pressure on the European Union will be reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U420	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U421	Dear Minister, First of all, I wish you good luck tomorrow in Brussels, where you definitely need to stand up for Estonia's interests in the best way. I hope you have read today's Äripäev, where Ronald Vienna has written an article entitled 'Let's Endear the Intolerant.' We know that Europe has been very divided by the current immigration crisis and that many people have fallen under mass propaganda. The media brands intolerant anyone who does not approve of mass immigration to Europe. I quote a very good paragraph: 'No one dares to express an opinion in my circle of acquaintances because they fear the disapproval of society. This is because the government, the President and other loudspeakers have labeled any opposition opinion evil and inhumane. ' At the same time, on the basis of a survey carried out by Delfi and Eesti Päevaleht, 80% of the Estonian population, therefore also your voters and those who gave you a mandate, do not support immigration to Europe. Do you consider them inhumane and evil people?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U422	Thank you. Everyone has the right to an opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U423	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U424	Obviously, all those who believe that the problems of refugees and refugees remain with us for a long time, in all countries, in all parliaments. The Centre Party Group is certainly among those who support the idea of discussing refugee issues in depth in this large hall. I am not surprised that our representatives in the Committee on European Union Affairs have just proposed this, because we have discussed it in our group and come up with this initiative. Today, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we discussed and analysed the big session of the General Assembly in the United Nations, where the leaders of the countries will meet. The President of Estonia has the first performance there already on Saturday. To our great surprise, we noticed that the issue of refugees is very weakly represented at this session. It talks about all kinds of issues, a little more about the refugees' mothers, and most of all about the speeches that the Heads of State are giving. We know that Estonia's representatives, the President and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, will make six speeches in New York. We certainly expect these speeches to also touch on refugee issues, because today's news indeed announced that the first migrants will be coming to Estonia this year. The new refugee centre will be built very soon. It is probably high time to think about working in Estonia and working actively with the Refugee Commission. They have already been created in several countries. If you think about it, it is obvious that refugee science belongs to the field of work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Culture and also the Ministry of Education. The list of problems is likely to be very long and, ultimately, the whole of society will have to deal with this issue. So the strength to defend Estonia's interests in Brussels! We hope that the debate on refugee issues as a matter of national importance in this Chamber will be constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U425	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U426	Honourable hall! Minister, thank you very much. I have to say, I don't believe you. I do not believe you because we have heard so many times how we are ready, how Estonia is ready. Estonia was ready for a pig plague. Turns out he wasn't ready. Estonia was ready to defend the Schengen external border, but then Eston Suitcase was kidnapped and it turned out that we did not have that border. Now we are ready to receive so-called refugees, whose main mass is actually immigrants of convenience, not refugees of any kind. Refugees sit in Jordan, Turkey and elsewhere in a refugee camp waiting for them to get back home. Those who attack only certain countries across Europe's borders - Germany and Sweden - are immigrants of convenience - they have nothing to do with refugees. What am I saying? What I want to say is that we are seeing an existential crisis in Europe right now. Central European countries are buried in the masses of refugees. This mass of refugees has reached the end of Finland. We can't stay untouched by this. We must be prepared to abandon the Schengen Agreement, restore border control. I understand that this will make many people waving their hands at protests how, then, we will no longer be able to move freely in Europe! We cannot because certain European countries have decided not to guard their borders and let in an enormous number of people who cannot be controlled. We are not ready to integrate these people, it is a very beautiful word, but we are not ready to integrate them. Today, in the Committee on National Defence, we discussed the issue of Syria. And what's to find out? It turns out that there are two Arab specialists in Estonia. Exactly two Arab specialists! So let's integrate these people from the Middle East with two Arab specialists, great! How are they gonna go to school? How do we make them speak Estonian, engage in entrepreneurship, send them to work? It's just not possible for these people to come here as many as they're likely to come. I'm going to say this one more time: this mass is going to flow and it's not going to leave us alone, but we're not ready for it. I am very sorry that the Minister is not listening to me because I want to tell him again: we are not ready. We do not have the capacity to restore border control at the border with Latvia. We don't have the ability to guard the eastern border properly. We do not have the ability to guard the border in ports, airports and everywhere else so that we can really control everyone who comes in and those who are unfit for us for whatever reason, whether they are mobiosis or whoever they are, to send back. We're not ready for this! There's no point in creating illusions, let's admit it! And if we have this discussion in this hall, I hope it comes, then I don't want to be overly intimidating and blaming. I'm just drawing attention to certain facts. I hope we'll discuss these things honestly, with no posture, and with no shit in each other's eyes. Once again: we were not ready for a swine plague, we have an eastern border unbuilt and not properly guarded, and we are also not ready to face the masses of immigrants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U427	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U428	Honourable representatives of the people! I came here for my part to say a line based precisely on the replies of the Minister of the Interior. First, I'll start with honors. Unlike many other people in the Republic of Estonia who claim to be opinion leaders, you have been polite and respectful in responding and also in the media. You are different from many who call everyone who does not support the current ostrich policy in Europe and blindly follow everything we are now being called by the European Commission and Germany, racist, hate-speakers, intolerant, careless. In this sense, you are very polite and that is very grateful. However, in answering my question, do you consider those people who do not support the policies that Europe is currently pursuing to be really inhumane and inciters of hatred, you said to me: everyone has the right to an opinion. That's not an answer. That is precisely what we must do most. We must defend our right to say the real problems and the risks that refugees pose. If we try to make it clear to everyone through the media propaganda, how stupid, stupid and selfish Estonians are, those Estonians who have chosen us here, who have chosen you too, Mr Minister, to your position, then this is not the right policy. Our task here is to do what we were chosen to do, bearing in mind our programme and our political promises. Do you remember your party's promises in February before the elections? A strong line, a strong economy. Five of the richest countries weren't mentioned anymore, but sometimes it comes in in line. Are we doing this policy now? Does your party make the Estonian economy stronger by increasing excise duties on fuel? He puts the Estonian economy in an even more difficult position. Estonian farmers are in the worst crisis in the last 20 years and the government's position on the number of refugees has changed by 270% over the last two months. Is that really what you were chosen for? To come and tell us that we are integrating these people into our society in such a way that no one will even notice it's just naive. This is stupid! Do you really think your own people are stupid, the 80% who do not support such a policy? I don't think they're stupid, I think they're people who care about the future of Estonia, the Estonian people and the Estonian state, the Estonian nation state. This policy should also be implemented by you when I read your election program. The European Council, which is likely to meet exceptionally, is probably going to vote on the introduction of quotas, and we know very well that it is already possible to put pressure on all countries that do not agree with Germany's desire to set quotas by a simple majority. I would very much like to see you come to this House to explain if this vote goes through like this. We have not supported Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia and Latvia in their policies when they have firmly opposed all kinds of quotas and redistributions. If this pressure goes through the European Council, how will you come to explain it to us? Today, you spoke in the Committee on European Union Affairs about the key to distribution. It's a beautiful word, giving the impression of a voluntary distribution. But the problem is that for each new division, the exact same distribution key applies. When we spoke about 60000 refugees about 180 people who are coming to Estonia, we are talking about 373 more for the current 120,000 refugees. That's more than twice the number. And Germany has already predicted up to a million immigrants this year. Are you really naive and think that we will be able to escape this crisis by redistributing 180,000 immigrants? No way! Let's multiply this number by at least three, and if 600,000 immigrants are to be distributed across Europe, what is the key to Estonia's distribution? So my message to you, Minister, is very clear: let us be clear about this. Let's talk about this honestly and as it really is, and in this case, you will also be respected by the Estonian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U429	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U430	Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is facing an unprecedented situation, an unprecedented crisis. We see and hear every day hundreds of thousands of people aspire to Europe. There's almost half a million of them today, but it's just the tip of the iceberg. Tens of millions of people are on the move, and Europe is only dealing with the consequences. We can split 120,000 people, but in a month, they'll come up with a new plan to split up twenty-four thousand. The exact figures are not important, but there is no doubt that this trend is simply to eliminate the consequences or rather not to eliminate them, but to continue to share them between all the countries of the European Union. It should also be clear to the most blue-eyed and pinkest eyeglasses that it is unsustainable. Action by both the European Union and the Member States of the European Union, or rather lack of action to stop this trend, has been completely ridiculous. The Minister of the Interior spoke here about Frontex, about the fact that the Agency's budget has been tripled and about Estonia's contribution. Estonia's contribution per capita has indeed been unprecedented in terms of both development and humanitarian support, but Europe now has to deal first and foremost with stopping refugee flows, protecting its own external borders. Both Frontex and the European military mission, launched in the Mediterranean Sea, are only engaged in the transport of refugees from the African coast to Europe. It's not sustainable! It has to be stopped, it has to be stopped! The network of human smugglers must be exposed and destroyed, but we are hearing absolutely nothing about this activity today. Germany has already begun to raise its hands Sweden and some other countries have also started to prepare to send refugees back and re-establish the Dublin Convention in order to reduce all these subsidies. The same has already been done by Denmark, Finland is planning to do so. I have heard absolutely nothing about Estonia's plan. Compared to our own citizens, our future refugees will be literally overwhelmed. When we are talking about distribution, it actually only concerns a small part of all illegal immigrants who have come to the European Union out of 500000, after all, it is only a small part. But have you heard, have you seen that those who do not qualify as refugees are being returned? No, these people are also staying in Europe, and the laws of most European Union countries prohibit illegals from taking up work. There is a major problem with which the hundreds of thousands of people who are not plucked out, who are not qualified to be refugees, to feed themselves, to support themselves. What will they do in the future? Where will they live? More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U431	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U432	This is a problem that is still waiting for its own time in the shadow of the greatest problem of this moment. But it's not dealt with at all. It is extremely sad and regrettable to watch Europe, as the President of Hungary said, run over itself, how Europe is going down the road without doing anything. Why is the second and third stages of the military mission not launched, which would mean requisition or destruction of human smugglers' ships and boats? Why are some European countries opposed to this? Because it's a million-dollar business. Should this not lead to the conclusion that these funds are moving somewhere to the governments of the border countries and to the government of the European Union? While the French Honorary Consul in Turkey is already involved in supporting human trafficking, and he also claims that the entire Turkish Government is involved, from here on, every person can use his own fantasy. It was nice to hear from the Minister of the Interior that Estonia is ready that we have already considered some steps. But which ones? If these human flows really start moving in other paths, if they reach Estonia's borders too, what measures are being taken? It would have been very interesting to hear that too. The Finnish Minister for Defence, for example, announced today that the Finnish Defence Forces are ready to contribute to the protection of the border against refugee flows. I hope that Estonia will act equally decisively. But the main thing right now is that before Estonia voluntarily agrees to relocate or resettle refugees, it must insist, first and foremost, at all Brussels meetings, that Europe's external borders must be secured. There must be an end to this infinite human stream, otherwise there will be no solution to this problem. This should be the very first step at this moment. And that, of course, must be followed by everything else concerning the help of war refugees in the countries of origin today and the resolution of the crisis. So first the fire must be extinguished in our own house, in Europe, only then can we go and put it out elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U433	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U434	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, who still have an incredible number of halls in spite of the late hour! All this talk I'm hearing is very serious. Actually, I didn't want to talk, but I thought I still had to talk. And that's not the story I read in the papers. I think that, unlike probably all other Members of Parliament, not all three of my daughters are more dear than Estonians. One of my daughters is a refugee sponsor, a French specialist who deals with black people. One of my daughters lives in Beirut, her husband is Lebanese, and the other is related to a young Syrian man. The message I just came here to transmit is that yesterday my daughter in Beirut called. He didn't have much to say. He said, Daddy, tell your colleagues that if you're seeing someone, take Christians. That we already have nearly two million of them in refugee camps in Lebanon. I have spoken very often on these issues. Also on this subject, which I think my colleague, Helme, has mentioned, that they are refugees of convenience or something. I know, thanks to my phone calls and e-mails received, that indeed those who have left their country are sitting in camps in Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey and elsewhere. But many of the gelling-haired and iPhone boys we see moving through Europe are from Syria, and they're actually boys who stay away from the army. They're deserters. As it was at the beginning of Soviet times or at the end of Soviet times, many may remember when Estonian boys tried to stay away from the Soviet army. I don't know if that's true, but these are wealthy, educated people who just don't want to die. There is indeed a war on several fronts in Syria, and not just there. But my message is what my daughter said to me when she called me yesterday: Daddy, tell your colleagues that if you take someone, take Christians first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U435	Would the Minister of the Interior like to speak again? No, I don't. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U436	The following question has been submitted by Olga Ivanova, Valeri Korb, Tarmo Tamm, Lauri Laas, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Kersti Sarapuu and Märt Sults and it deals with the compliance of security measures of the US embassy with Estonian law. Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U437	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. In May this year, news was published in the press that referred to surveillance activities carried out by the U.S. Embassy and coordinated with the Ministry of the Interior in Tallinn. According to the experts' preliminary opinion, according to the information published in Postimees on 29 May, the surveillance unit of the US Embassy was probably involved in surveillance activities, the compliance of which with Estonian law was called into question by the press. Experts estimate that monitoring people on the streets at random and keeping an eye on the surrounding embassy are on the one hand in accordance with Estonian law. On the other hand, it is questionable if a unit collects and processes data on a so-called suspicious person in a covert manner, as the 'Actual Camera' did. According to the Postimees article mentioned above, if a person had been on a suspicious list, he was photographed and filmed, and a "logbook" began to be kept about his moves. Attorney Mare Tannberg, a professor of penal law at the University of Tartu, admitted that in such a situation, the question may arise as to whether this activity is legitimate or not. 'If a person monitors another person for the purpose of collecting data, this is a private pursuit,' he added. As a result, we have the following questions. First: Who supervises the processing of personal data collected by the U.S. embassy? ' Two: 'Is personal data processed by the US embassy subject to the legal order established in Estonia, i.e. does the US embassy that monitored the person have to inform the Estonian citizen that he has been monitored? ' And the third question: 'Please state and explain whether there is another institution or organisation in Estonia that has been granted such a tracking permit? ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U438	Mr Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U439	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I will try to respond quickly and as concretely as possible. The first question is who supervises the processing of personal data collected by the US embassy. I'd like to shift the focus a little bit, put it in the right direction. Your introduction did say it wasn't a surveillance activity. The main focus was on whether Estonia has provided information to the US embassy that would enable the identity of the person to be identified and whether there are any related personal data. In this regard, I can confirm, as in previous speeches on this subject, that, on the basis of the information and verified data collected during the analysis carried out, there is no reason to claim that the parties' activities have gone beyond the limits described in the memorandum. In other words, the activities of the US embassy in ensuring the security of the object are in full compliance with Estonian law and data has not been transmitted to the United States in this form. What has been transmitted is, figuratively speaking, yes- and no-answers. So if the United States embassy has asked for a vehicle to be checked, it has been answered if this vehicle has been suspicious. These have been yes- or no-answers and personal data or details have not been communicated to the United States embassy. The second question: will the personal data processed by the U.S. Embassy be subject to the legal regime established in Estonia, i.e. should the person be informed? As I said, this has not been a surveillance activity. At this point, I would remind you that, in accordance with the Vienna Convention, Estonia has an obligation to ensure the security of foreign representations located here, regardless of whether they are an embassy of the United States, the Russian Federation or the Republic of Finland. As a result, we have worked and will certainly continue to work with embassies to ensure their safety. Data on Estonian citizens have not been transmitted by the Estonian authorities. In case of suspicion of a particular situation-specific threat, we have informed the embassy whether or not there is a threat. The third question: is there any other institution or organisation in Estonia that has been granted such a tracking permit? Once again, no surveillance clearance has been issued to the United States embassy. The embassy identifies possible risks to protect the embassy and its employees, and if there is a threat, Estonia will inform the competent authorities. A code of conduct has also been agreed between the embassy and the Republic of Estonia as to how quickly and when Estonian law enforcement authorities will react to one or another event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U440	Any questions for the Minister? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There is no request to speak. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U441	The next question is submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Valeri Korb, Märt Sults, Erki Savisaar, Mailis Reps, Dmitri Dmitriev, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Andrei Novikov, Enn Eesmaa, Tarmo Tamm, Rein Rats, Martin Repinski, Priit Toobal, Aadu Must, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korb, Toomas Vitsut and Kadri Simson. It's about school lunch. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U442	Ladies and gentlemen, Three weeks ago, a new academic year began in our schools, and I believe that this inquiry we submitted on 10 June. a, is quite fit to discuss today. I'm not going to read the question. I took out a few figures that might be good to know. Of Estonian children, 20.2% live in relative poverty, 10% live in absolute poverty, and for many children, the only warm food for school lunch is a day. For five years, the school lunch allowance has been 78 euro cents. Food prices have increased by 23% since 2010, school lunch support by 4%. The allowance should be up to EUR 92 cents. The Centre Party Group has also launched a draft to this effect in 2014-2015. There are four questions to the Minister in question. It's late, and I'm not going to read them, I believe the minister himself will give you an overview. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U443	The Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi must answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U444	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, on this introduction, I would say that if you really want to talk about poverty, whether absolute or relative, then the proposals should also respond to it. Sharing equal support for all will not solve the problem, because in this case the support will inevitably be small. But let's take a look at the questions. How does the government plan to improve the situation? I do not know exactly what the situation is or what exactly is meant in this sentence, but broadly speaking, for the government, a free lunch is not such a priority that it should be financed, for example, at the expense of teachers' salaries. So there is no such intention to increase the support for school lunch. As far as 78 cents is concerned, milk and fruit programmes could also be added to this, and we will receive 97 cents, which is already almost at cost. In general, it is highly questionable whether the state has to intervene to such an extent in the activities of local governments that it provides a very targeted provision of school menus or universal support for school lunches. The money would go national in a more reasonable way if it were targeted as necessary and would indeed be achieved by those who are in absolute poverty and why not also in relative poverty. It would really be a contribution to what you describe in your introduction. In itself, this measure is not intended to pay off all food, it is intended to support it. However, when you think about the big picture, we are still moving towards giving the municipalities the opportunity to make their own choices in their own budget. There has also been such a strong proposal that even teachers' salaries should not be earmarked. I don't really agree with that. I think it is a strategic choice that decides very much in Estonia. However, what exactly must be the allowance for school lunch or who should be given it, it is still up to the schoolkeeper to decide. You're also saying that for a lot of kids, school lunch is the only way to get warm food. But then you could focus on those who have the only chance. In fact, I think that children's food is among the last things on which the family has to stick together, and we have a social assistance system, income support, etc. for such cases. During school, however, catering is, of course, organized by the municipality. I repeat, the municipality, rather to arrange the schoolkeeper. If this is a municipal school, it is reasonable that he who is closer to these children and is able to make choices could make the choice of who to pay the full price. That would be beautiful. Question 3: 'If, at the moment, the support for school lunch has been on the same level for the last five years, does the government intend to raise it? " Once again, school lunch is not something that should always be seen as a key issue in education. Very repeated questions for you. Each year, ministers are asked the same questions several times, but they have their own budgetary concerns, which still concern the content of education. It should be a concern of the owners or schoolkeepers that a school lunch has been arranged. However, there should be a local choice for whom and how much to pay, which does not mean that I am now proposing to withdraw this support. I am simply saying that this is a relatively generous and too weakly linked to education that it should be earmarked at national level. The final question: why has the Centre Party's draft group not yet been supported? I assume there have been better users of money and ideas for the use of money. Surely the content of education would deserve more the attention of those who understand and politicians at all than the contents of the bowl that is put on the table for children. It's not like we're working everything out on Toompea, but we tend to settle too much. Separate aid for milk and fruit and then for school lunches where no choices are made. If you say that this support has not been raised, it has been raised, it has now been extended to upper secondary school. It's all quite a cost. It cannot be said that we are expanding the circle and increasing the amount at once, and that is what the Minister of Education should answer first and foremost. I'd love to have an educational debate with you, but that's not where you got to. What else? No more questions. Thank you for them, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U445	There are questions for the Minister. Please, Kersti Sarapuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U446	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In the state secondary school, free food is guaranteed for all students and no account is taken of the degree of poverty or wealth, whatever it is, is still paid for taxpayers' money. What is the difference between state secondary school and municipal school students? To give the municipal school 22 cents more to fill the euro is too much, but to my knowledge, students at the state gymnasium will eat over a one-euro lunch.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U447	Thank you. I didn't say it was too much. I'm saying there's no effective choice behind this. It must have been transferred as a parallel to state secondary schools. What the state pays in state secondary schools is the responsibility of the schoolkeeper, just as local governments are the obligations of municipalities and schoolkeepers. There is no direct contradiction here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U448	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U449	Thank you. Good minister! The freedom of local government to determine the conditions of its living environment still depends on the financial autonomy of the municipality, and we both know very well that in the Estonian context we can talk about strong financial autonomy only in the case of Tallinn and, to some extent, in the case of Tartu. The rest of the municipalities depend very much on the Equalisation Fund and there is very little dedicated free money to channel into their living environment. I want to say that the attitude of the central government towards local governments is still too arbitrary. Some questions come to help, some people don't. For example, at school lunch, money is given, but here I understand the answers, why exactly, as I don't know. In the meantime, the funeral allowance is granted, then taken away again. In public transport, we are actually more dependent on negotiations with the Road Administration, with the county government, with no right of participation in health care.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U450	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U451	The question is whether the problem cannot still be in the 2010 Supreme Court ruling, where the task of determining the functions and financial relationships of the local government was assigned. In essence, it has not been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U452	Thank you. I think the problem is, in fact, that you've been billing the country for hundreds of millions of dollars this evening, if not hundreds. And the logic is, let the state pay for all the risks. It feels like this money's growing up somewhere in a tree where the country doesn't want to climb. We've been talking to you about the state's arrangement since this morning. Last time it was in the State Budget Control Committee. Although the members of the Riigikogu were not so many of those sayings, some of them were also your party partner. There is a feeling that the country is considered to be an inexhaustible source of money, but there is no sense of purpose, choice, division of labour between municipalities and the state. It is simply that the municipality is justified to charge the state money as if it were the State's, not the taxpayer's. The 2010 court settlement was not, as far as I have talked to legal experts, the best decision of the Supreme Court. The National Audit Office talked about it this morning. I admit that's not everyone's opinion, but I've heard it from the top of law. The idea that the state is divided into municipalities and central government is a bit black and white. The division of labour is a good thing, but it is even better if the division of labour is done in cooperation. A school lunch is like an example where some kind of cooperation has been sought, not just to pay for the lunch 100%, but to help. But it is certainly not such a big exit for the municipalities, nor is it an educational issue that the Ministry of Education should manage this process and therefore take away the teachers' salaries when it comes to school spending. We did an analysis at the Ministry of Finance back in the day, which then could and can be distributed. It is not a very final decision where the division of labour is not done. We can argue about that, and we discussed it in the government, but we didn't find it as strange as it is. It's just that I remember keeping a register, and then we got divorced. In general, however, we looked at the decision of the Supreme Court quite thoughtfully, so what can we do now? How do we disperse this country now so that we live in one territory, organise cooperation between citizens, and now all of a sudden we should do it so separately that there is no point of contact. It's complicated. I think that this solution should still be furnished. But this is not the answer that the state is paying for all the municipal expenses. My previous question today was that we need to start regulating the pay of kindergarteners, that it is a matter of division of labour. I'm shakin' shoulders. I really do not see any ideas on behalf of those who resemble this division of labour and the Supreme Court's decision. There are no good ideas for that. You insist you do it, but you don't tell me where the problem is and where the solution is.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U453	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U454	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! If you don't have any good ideas, you have to get out of power. I have a question. In the 1990s, when Estonia was still poor, there were no schools in the European Union, there were more schools, there were more children, they were able to provide food and they were able to do much more, to provide other public services, which the crocodiles have now tightened up a lot. We have now been in the European Union for more than ten years, which was supposed to bring prosperity, investment with the euro. I have a question: where did the money go?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U455	Thank you. I didn't say we had any ideas. Our ideas are generally reflected in the organisation of the state, and if anyone wants to make it better, they must add an idea to the criticism. A single thought that can be seriously discussed. It is not a good idea that a school should start paying off individual municipal articles, specifically to increase the local government's income bases, that it is precisely this kopika that is missing there. The logic of this idea should be that such a division of labour is the most effective: it is close enough to the person, so it should be dealt with by the municipality, but there is enough central authority function to be dealt with by the central authority. Where did the money go? Okay, I'm not gonna ask you where the money went, but I could ask you. In general, you must have compared it to the 1990s, not to the Soviets. Otherwise, your friend Jaanus Karilaid might accuse you of idealizing Soviet times. Of course he won't do it to you, he'll do it to me. We'll have to think about it. I doubt free school food was still a rule in the 1990s. I doubt it. State food subsidy? I had my own kids at school. I'm afraid that's when the food money was collected. But maybe it wasn't that important to me, so I'm not exactly here. The fact that this is not so important to me is simply a reflection of the fact that not everyone needs this free food. All it takes is a chance. For my younger son, I'm saying that he refused to eat school food for a specific reason. He was simply demanding of some things that the school could not arrange. I'm not gonna name them, it's not gonna make you hungry. It's just an example that free stuff isn't effective. My son didn't eat, one boy did, the other refused to go. What was the method of funding, I don't know anymore. It didn't matter to me because I didn't feel the need for the state to pay for this food. Whether my husband paid the school meal money or not, I don't even know. But it would be really silly to have completely free food, it would have been a waste.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U456	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U457	Thank you. Unlike you, I don't care. I want to ask you as a finance person what formula or matrix you used or use when you calculated the 78 or 76 cents support you need. What formula is it based on, and what is it counted on? Or is it just the money that no one else wanted and was most comfortable writing, that could be written into a coalition agreement without arguing in any way? It's not for me to tell you what you have to do, but it's for the Minister to stand up as a cliff for his jurisdiction and take all those bangs that bring life.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U458	Thank you. You can be sure that I will stand, not like a rock, but I will stand for my area of government and for the budget for my area of government. I'm a very annoying debater and negotiator at government meetings. But for me, the most important thing for my government is that it gets used to getting everything free, no matter what it takes. What's more important to me is that money moves from real estate, free stuff to the content of education. And, above all, not just money, but also attention. So we don't talk all the time about things like 'when are you finally gonna pay for it? '. It's not about education, you know that. For me, the priority for next year's budget is the salaries of teachers, and as I have already said, 4% of the payroll has been allocated to it. This amount was not given, but it had to be fought out, of course, because then, let us say, the priorities have been in election programmes and coalition agreements elsewhere. So I'm gonna have to fight for things without financial cover to make the most of the money, not to get as much money as I want. But that's what life is like. There are municipalities and there are central governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U459	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U460	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I don't have a question for you, but I want to say it's a shame if you, at national, government level, direct the problems of children's day-care centres and schools to the local authorities. Secondly, I would like to say that it is a pity that our country's Minister for Education does not defend the interests of children.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U461	Thank you. I still have to answer because it's that format, whether or not you're questioning it. As I said, education is for me what is children's interest in school. And if you did not want to interpret my personal example correctly, I would say that it was aimed at the fact that children in all families do not need free school food. Some families need it completely free of charge, some need cash support, but my family didn't need it. And that's why I can't even remember how this system worked in the beautiful 1990s, to which your sister party refers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U462	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U463	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you, Minister. You have repeatedly said here that your interest or purpose is that money in the field of education should go 'directly to teaching'. In fact, there is a question of political choices here. If we take the money for food, maybe it's a social measure and maybe it's not. But taxpayers also pay for textbooks and workbooks. Where do we draw the line that is to support education and what is to support people's livelihoods? By this logic, you could stop taking any measures at all and say, "Look at how you're doing on your own." What is the difference between the country from which support for school education is a social measure and where does education start? People don't learn anything on an empty stomach.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U464	Thank you. In the case of transfers made by the Ministry of Education, the difference is that the child does not eat textbooks and workbooks, but he eats school food if he still eats. School food is a social measure, but as a social measure, it is not differentiated again. In this sense, I would not take him as a real social measure either. Rather, it is educational or school-ordered that municipalities have an obligation to provide school food and that the state has taken up 2/3 of its support, plus fruit and milk programmes, which together, if all of them were to be used, almost the cost of that food. We cannot say that, in the case of school food, it is a terrible question of money that we should be so concerned about the support for school food, which is universally distributed, in the education budget. You don't have to be so worried.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U465	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U466	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister! Probably not all families need universal child support either. However, you have met and agreed with your coalition partner in this regard. My question, however, is one figure. How much money are we talking about raising the current support of the Centre Party to the desired level of one euro?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U467	Thank you. First of all, we are still coming up against our coalition partners, trying to respect their preferences and reach a compromise. But in itself, the fact that we pay child benefits and they have multiplied is one of the answers to this demand to increase school food support. In fact, the ability of families to buy food for children has grown. We should not now consider this to be such a complete problem of hunger and survival among children. However, these children are outnumbered to whom parents do not provide proper meals. But I'll make sure this size is about 14 million. I'm gonna have to find this number for a while. No, I can't really tell you that calculation. I see that I had figures on how much the municipality costs and how much it costs the state. [[A voice from the hall.]] 5.9 what? So is this an increase to one euro? But now, if you take one of the 97 euros, how much will it cost? If 97 cents is already with milk and fruit, do you have it calculated? Well, I believe you, I don't have exactly that calculation. It is not a question of this; the question is that the allocation of five million to pay teachers, for example, would already result in a significant wage increase, and that is why I prefer it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U468	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U469	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. With one euro, you can't get a school lunch, not with 97 cents. But it seems strange to me how you seem surprised that local governments are asking for money from the state and the government. Who or where should the municipalities ask? The municipality's income base depends entirely on the government's discretion. The government has significantly reduced their revenue base, which is still not at a pre-crisis level. And the only tax received directly by the municipalities was the land tax, but it was also taken away from the municipalities in the part of the residential land. Similarly, I am surprised that you do not understand the Supreme Court ruling, which states that...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U470	Dear colleague, I ask you to fit the question in one minute. Please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U471	Where should the municipality receive money to carry out various tasks, including school meals, if it is not in a position to obtain it from elsewhere, such as imposing an additional payment?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U472	Thank you. That was the end of the question. I guess that money comes from the taxpayer and not from the state. But it seems strange to you maybe because you didn't notice. In fact, I did not describe the fact that municipalities are asking for money from the state, but that according to the rhetoric that has spread in this hall, the state should be structured in such a way that there is a money pump somewhere that is owned by the state, but it is well-plucked and does not give money to the municipalities. This is rhetoric that I have had to hear several times today, including in the Special Committee on State Budget Control. It's actually a debate place. I do not like the idea of increasing the temptation of local governments to raise some kind of tax, because I also know the result. After all, this will automatically create some taxpayers' fictitious behaviour in order to avoid this tax. The tax burden on one municipality seems to be positive and tempting. On the other hand, there is the risk that the local economy will suffer. But the place where I passionately defend the financial autonomy of the municipalities is the land tax. It is a really local matter, it is the most innocent tax for the economy, I quote OECD experts here. On this point, we have done exactly the opposite: the most valuable plots are exempt. I would leave the municipalities with autonomy here, I would call it precisely that, I would give them full discretion over how many exceptions they make. It shouldn't be done by law like it is now. Secondly, it is also what are the tax price coefficients. They should have a bigger choice. But I know there's been enough resistance to this proposal, and it hasn't worked. Especially now, when we point out in the land valuation that it is going to be 'automatic' on the basis of a register, local governments would need this autonomy, because it will in future dramatically increase the tax burden that the municipality should be able to alleviate in response.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U473	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U474	Thank you. An inquiry may focus on a school lunch, but you don't really want to talk about it. Since you'd rather talk about teachers' salaries, let's talk about them. You said you had fought hard to get a 4% increase in the payroll budget next year. The Social Democrats also fought and got the clause in the contract that teachers' pay could rise to 120% of the average wage. The average wage will rise by 6% next year, the teachers' salary by 4%, so it will not rise closer to the average, but will remain behind the average. The Sox have fought for teachers' salaries, and you have fought. Is it really that IRL's coalition partner who opposes raising teachers' salaries as much as you and the Sots want?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U475	Thank you. I have not signed a coalition agreement in which soxes would have charged teachers with 120% of the average salary. However, there are some other amounts to which the financial cover has not been allocated. Not to mention no one fought in the budget disputes on my side of the court. It is a fact that when a government goes to make financial choices, everyone fights for themselves. I'd rather have the table on the other side that, oh, you've still got options, look around, I know you've got money. So I started to find out where it was. No, it was the money that has already been spent, i.e. the model changes of Aaviksoo have reached the salaries of this year, but a new solution must be found for next year's wages. This 4% raise is not true. We're not talking about a 4% raise, and I don't think we're really talking about a 6% increase in the average wage. I don't know where you're taking it. In my opinion, the forecast for next year will be 4.5. The increase in teachers' salaries will certainly be greater. I do not want to talk about teachers' salaries in the context of school lunch as an alternative to spending existing money. I am not willing to allocate money to my own child, who is now university age, for free school food, if it always comes at the cost of moving away from the goal of raising teachers' salaries, given the narrow budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U476	Thank you, Minister. Your fights today have been fought, the MPs have no further questions. Let's go to the negotiations. Colleagues Märt Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U477	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Greetings, gentlemen, ladies insomniacs! The minister went smoothly over to the teachers' raise when we were talking about school food and said that teachers' wages would increase by 4%. I did some additions-breaks. Allegedly, the teachers' payroll doesn't confuse us! The wage fund will increase by 4%. At the same time, I learned from very faithful sources that the tax-free minimum goes to EUR 170 from EUR 154. Basically, the money is spent on the school payroll, or the burden is 9.411. Consequently, after this excellent salary increase, the school's salary fund will decrease by 5.41%. Where's the raise? There's no raise. Now, let's talk about school food. Our leader and teacher, Mr. Minister, said that school food is not part of education. A person on an empty stomach, however, makes up all kinds of hogs except learning. A person must be full. Just because someone's kid doesn't eat food... I'm sure the Minister would have said that the food had wormed, molded or the nut was in the food, and that's why his child didn't eat that food. So he's never been hungry. In my experience, 80% of the students, whether they had 500 euros or 5 cents in their wallets, ate school food. I mean, it's how school is used to and what school arrangements are like. School food is actually a very important thing. There are no free lunches, everything's right. We have to pay them off. But no animal but man will starve its offspring. No animal! And what the hell are we gonna do here in Toompea and the Riigikogu if we can't secure a future generation of healthy, educated, quick-thinking, bright eyes and a country lover, a patriot? I'm sorry, what's the formula for growing it? Then the minister spoke about the content of education. The content of education, upper secondary school education, and secondary education were addressed until 2000. Until 2000, the school prepared its own needs-based budget. Everything was discussed, considered, then went to the Economics Department of the Education Department, defended this budget for four to five days, and when the Education Department approved the budget, the school was given this money on a need-based basis. In 1999, the last time our schools had a budget was food money. Then came the check number, some kind of company figured out how much the school needed, and that's exactly how the money was given. Once when I was in high school, school food cost 1 ruble 40 kopiks a week. Now, if you take a pro rata of the teacher's salary was 75 rubles, then 1.40 was a very, very large sum. At the moment, this proportion doesn't work out with any formula. So we don't want the future generation to be healthy, athletic and looking good. We don't need it. I mean, we live in one day. I'm sorry to say this, but that's actually the way it is when you listen to the statements of officials and those responsible. What else can I say? Hold your children, don't forget to give them a sandwich, and love costs nothing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U478	Thank you. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U479	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm listening and I'm thinking that Mr. Jürgen Ligi isn't such a stupid person that he doesn't understand. I don't think he wants to understand. After all, we can talk about the fact that school food is not part of education, but in my opinion it is rather an expression of the fact that people who think that way do not know how people live in Estonia. I just don't know how people go to school in Estonia, how children live. In some of the so-called elite schools in the city centre of Tallinn, school meals may not be eaten, but in most Estonian schools, especially the further we go from Tallinn, school food is the only hot food for children per day. And then they're gonna take that money around, which is nothing from the point of view of the state budget. It's nothing! Five million. I would like to remind you that over Tallinn's Tartu highway an overpass was built on hedgehogs and bears, which cost about the same amount. It is a question of choices that the state makes either we give money or we don't give money. Basically, you can talk endlessly about how we have to target money more accurately, target it on a need-based basis. But it's actually very simple. The money's being snatched, it's being pretended that this kind of under-euro amount really comes out, it's being pretended that it's about 30 euros a month, which parents pay for food money, that's nothing. No, it's not! This is not a negligible amount, especially when there are more children in the family. It's not a petty sum! This is a very large part of the so-called free money that remains for them after the payday when they have paid off all the other sums. So I think it's very simple: it's a question of choices. Can we find the money to keep our children fed? And I repeat: here in Tallinn, it may seem that all of this is incomprehensible, but go out of Tallinn for a moment, there is a matter of life. Or are we going to build bridges for hedgehogs and bears? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U480	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiation. The 12th inquiry has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U481	We will proceed to the 13th question, which has been submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Külmiki Kübarsepp, Jüri Adams, Andres Herkel, Artur Talvik, Krista Aru, Ain Lutsepp, Monika Haukanõm and Andres Ammas. An inquiry into the implementation of the administrative reform has been submitted to Arto Aasa, Minister of Public Administration. I ask Minister Arto Asa of the Speaker to answer the question. I'm sorry! First, Külliki Kübarsepp, and then the minister, gets the word on behalf of the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U482	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good ambassadors! On 11 May, the Free Party submitted to the Minister for Public Administration an inquiry into the implementation of administrative reform. The inquiry procedure expresses the Government's attitude towards the Riigikogu as a moron. It's been five months and a little more, ten days. During this period, many of the questions asked have changed. Estonia clearly needs state reform. As a small country, we cannot continue to finance duplication, inability to cooperate, inability to manage and, from time to time, lack of competence. It's all too expensive. We asked the Minister for Public Administration questions, which focused mainly on the process of carrying out administrative reform. In fact, feedback has come from local governments that the current business is still going down from the top, the style of 'we know everything'. What's expected? Dialogue between the state, local government and communities is expected. We must note that the organisation of society and life has changed. A new keyword has already come, a community as a form of interaction. One of the aims of the dialogue is to talk about content. We need to break up the goals of the municipality, the state and the community, the interrelationship, the tasks and, therefore, the resources. The Prime Minister announced today that there have been eight presentations in the counties, but it is a bird for monologues, not for dialogue. The Free Party has developed a model for administrative reform at one and a half levels. This model is the Estonian development model for modern society organisation or communities. Our task is precisely to highlight communities in local governments, and the implementation of administrative reform is also one way in which local governments can themselves engage in dialogue with communities and increase their importance in public governance, or involve them more. We must remember that Estonians are a conservative nation. Any major change, or less significant, creates great fear and panic, and that is why dialogue is needed. Municipalities are concerned that the criteria have also provided for persons far from practice. The practitioners are precisely the local authorities who would like to give real input and real input, because this reform must certainly not be short-term, but still look forward to the future. Once again, however, we read in the media that the focus is on numbers. The municipality is a living thing. The people who live there, the self-government, cannot be regarded as a statistical indicator, but as a living organism. Let us value more people! The Free Party has submitted five questions five months and ten days ago, focusing on the procedure and involvement of the procedure, whether and when the regional impact of excise duties on fuel and the increase in VAT on accommodation establishments will be regularly analysed in Estonian legislation and how regional development has been affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U483	Thank you. And now, Minister of State Administration Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U484	Honourable Riigikogu! Let it be said to begin by saying that the answer to an inquiry is based on how the Riigikogu has established the rules. I basically didn't rest in the summer, I don't have a problem going to the Riigikogu when I have to. I am happy to present the process of administrative reform. The first question: 'In the 100-day plan of the government, you have foreseen that by 14 May the coordination of administrative reform will be placed under the Prime Minister. Has the task been carried out and from this point on, what is the plan for further addressing the administrative reform? What is your role in this? 'The Government of the Republic formed May 14th. a In order to prepare the administrative reform of the government committee, which includes not only the Prime Minister and the Minister of State Administration but also the representative of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the representative of the Estonian Union of Cities, the representative of the Estonian Association of Rural Governments, the Minister of Education and Research, the Minister of Justice, the Prime Minister's Adviser, the Minister of Finance, the representative of the Parliament's Local Government and Regional Policy Support Group, the representative of the Committee on Rural Affairs of the Riigikogu and two representatives of the Constitutional Commission, as well as the Minister of Interior, the Minister of Health and Labour and the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic. The Commission has met once this summer, and the timetable and principles of local government reform were discussed in the government office on 2 July 2015. In addition to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs, the representative of the Association of Estonian Cities, the representative of the Association of Estonian Rural Governments and the representative of the Estonian Cooperation Council, Rivo Noorkõiv from Geomedia, Veiko Sepp from the University of Tartu, Georg Sootna from Tallinn University, Mikk Lõhmus from Tallinn University of Technology, Rein Ahas from the University of Tartu, Airi Mikli from the National Audit Office, the Mayor of Rakvere Mihkel Juhkami, a former member of the Riigikogu and the former member of the Western County Elder Neeme Suur, a member of the Riigikogu and the State Law Expert Rait Maruste, Praxis from the State Office Katrin Pihor and the Strategy Director. The panel has met five times. The discussions so far have focused in particular on the timetable and process of carrying out the reform of local government and on the criteria underlying the reform. The next meeting is this Friday. The role of the Minister of State Administration in the process is to guide the development of the concept, principles and draft law of administrative reform and the process of implementation of the reform, as well as to support the assessment of compliance by local authorities and the conduct of voluntary mergers. You are certainly aware of this, but broadly, the reform is being carried out in three stages. The first includes the drafting of the necessary draft legislation for the reform. The law can, of course, be passed by the Riigikogu itself. During this year, the government plans to write draft laws, send them to coordination and send them to the Riigikogu at the latest on the anniversary of the Republic, so that the Riigikogu can then pass the laws by Midsummer Day if it considers it necessary. The second stage is the implementation of the voluntary reform and the preparation of accessions, which will mainly start in the summer-Autumn next year and will lead to the 2017 local elections. I hope that this own-initiative phase will be very active, as you know, we will also motivate it financially and advise it. Hopefully, on 15 October 2017, new elections of councils have already joined. The third phase of the reform is expected to start at the end of 2017. During this period, the Government of the Republic should prepare and conduct a merger in those municipalities which do not meet the criteria laid down by law. The process should be completed by the end of 2018. The second question concerns administrative reform: 'What is the administrative reform procedure? Who's getting involved? What is the inclusion process? By what time will the government's vision of the new administration of the country develop? How will discussions between the various political groups and committees of the Riigikogu be conducted? ' In fact, many are involved in the administrative reform. It's hard for me to accept the accusations that started here very lightly. We have plenty of time. As I said, the timetable for the reform has been well-designed enough to allow time for inclusion. This is particularly important during the period of voluntary accession. Nothing's made up in the office or trying to force through it. All the work is still ongoing. Representatives of national self-government associations are involved in both the panel of experts and the government committee. There have been dozens of meetings with local government associations in counties, rural elders, with the involvement of both ministers and officials. Discussion seminars began today, taking place in all counties. At the end of October, we plan to hold a major seminar-conference to introduce the experience of the merger that has already taken place. I have already had meetings with the political groups of the Riigikogu and the following meetings have been agreed. I have communicated and I am ready to communicate with all the forces represented in the Riigikogu. In this sense, we really want a substantive solution. And when you listened, who are also members of the panel of experts, I do have the conviction that this is a very dignified and very experienced group of people, made up of people with political experience, there are no more active politicians there, but, above all, scientists and those who have been conducting mergers in Estonia for ten to fifteen years. So in this sense, involvement is still ongoing. Absolutely every idea, every proposal is welcome and in the Riigikogu we can hopefully then discuss reform plans very thoroughly at the beginning of next year. In the Riigikogu, the commission is, in my knowledge, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but it is certainly possible to involve other political groups and committees. That's not a problem. Question 3: Will regionality be required to be taken into account in the assessment of draft laws from now on? Have the impact of excise duties on fuel and VAT increases on regional development been analysed? What are the results? Or is it one of the specific forms of'mandatory reform'? ' It can be said that under the current Code of Good Lawmaking and Standard Techniques, when drafting draft laws, the impact of the implementation of the law, including the impact on regional development, must be explained in the explanatory memorandum. According to the Impact Assessment Review questionnaire, it needs to be assessed whether and how the draft will affect the achievement of the overall objectives of national regional policy, the factors shaping regional development in the different regions, and the local position and participation in both national and local development planning and policy-making processes. As regards excise duties on fuel and VAT on accommodation services, it can be said that these have been political decisions coming from the 100-day programme of the Government of the Republic. The explanatory notes to these drafts have had an impact analysis. In the case of excise duty rates, the main risks to different sectors have certainly been identified. As regards the increase in VAT on tourist accommodation, the experience of the various countries has been analysed in exactly the same way and concluded that the VAT rate is not a determining factor in choosing the tourist destination, there are very many other important factors. We know, for example, that the significant loss of Russian tourists has nothing to do with the VAT rate. But this is a separate issue, I think it is not the main focus of administrative reform issues. The fourth question: 'It is very important to review the responsibilities of the municipalities and the financing issues [---]. When will the evaluation criteria for local governments be developed? Who will develop these criteria? What measures are being taken against those municipalities that do not meet the criteria? ' It can be said that this process should logically look like a panel of experts preparing the main options and alternatives, then discussing them in a government committee, making political decisions, after which the Ministry of Finance will write the draft. There will be regular coordination and procedures in the government and Parliament. We want to agree on these basic criteria, which will become the so-called pillars of administrative reform, already in November this year. There is not too much time to waste and a lot of work and analysis has been done. As explained, in the case of non-compliant municipalities, the Government of the Republic will initiate accession, but hopefully the main wave of accession will take place before that. We will double the merger grants, as has been said, we will advise on these processes, so that money is provided for, and we will increase the social guarantees of the local government leaders. This process should look like this until the end of 2017. In 2018 the government will have to intervene. The experience so far suggests that not everything will happen on its own initiative is likely to escape this virtue. The fifth question probably concerns the reorganisation of the government. It has been asked what effect it is expected to have by restructuring the agencies and moving the departments from one administration to another. Let us say that these reorganisations are linked to political priorities, to the implementation of the same reform. I am not going to talk here at this late hour about restructuring the Ministry of Agriculture into the Ministry of Rural Affairs or moving the Competition Authority into the field of the Ministry of Justice. Let's focus on the key question. From the Ministry of Interior, the Regional Administration Department, Regional Development Department and Planning Department were transferred to the Ministry of Finance area of administration and the county governments co-ordinated by the departments. The cooperation between the Regional Departments of the Ministry of Interior and the Administrative Policy Departments of the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Management Department of Local Authorities is more immediate and operational when areas and competences are institutionally and physically combined. The reform of local government, which involves so many different authorities, is already complex and resource-intensive, and it is therefore good to have basic decisions made and the core core is within the same institution. This will make it easier to prepare for the reform. The provision of expertise in the Department of Local Government Financial Management of the Ministry of Finance under the responsibility of the Minister responsible for administrative reform supports the preparation and implementation of the administrative reform. Similarly, under the Ministry of Finance, there is in fact a supranational administrative organisation, human resource management and development of the public service. So this synergy has arisen. From 1 September we will indeed be together physically and I can assure you that this was the right step. They also asked what it would cost. The reorganisation of the regional area took into account the fact that the area is moving from one area of government to another, together with the budget needed to carry out its activities and the assets in daily use. The material cost of reorganisation involved moving items from one location to another, preparing premises and workplaces, changing IT systems and other administrative costs of €29000 in total. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U485	I certainly will not give you any definition of the textbooks of financial autonomy, but I believe that you, I and Jürgen Ligi will understand this in a relatively similar way: the local government must have some tools that it can decide for itself and some freedom of choice. Indeed, we are seeing at the moment that there is no such thing in very small municipalities. They are either entirely dependent on the fine-tuning fund, on the label of the money that comes from the state, or, in fact, they are dependent on the neighbouring municipality, because the school or some other very important institution is located in a neighbouring municipality and the managers and residents of this small government do not have much right of say. I agree with you, I am convinced that the role of our municipalities should increase either during or after the reform. It's kind of a move towards a Scandinavian model. I am willing to continue to fight in the government for less money with a 'label' to increase the funding of local governments. So I believe that we do not really think very differently on these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U486	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U487	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, By listening to and trying to understand the description of your model, I saw an Estonian map that reflects a very uneven administrative distribution. Leaving aside the differences arising from geographical location, perhaps in the form of small islands, a situation may arise where in one county all current municipalities can agree and unite into a single county-sized municipality. On the other hand, in a region of the same size, such a merger does not take place and there are, for example, seven or eight municipalities with 5,000 inhabitants. Do you accept such a situation, or does the government intend to intervene in any way and change that picture?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U488	Logic is, however, that when we enter the criteria in the law, it is completely real, as the Prime Minister said, that there will be some exceptions that are reasonable and logical, basically the same example of small islands, municipalities fulfilling these criteria, and there will be seven municipalities with 5,000 inhabitants (there may be even more in Harjumaa), there is no reason to say that bullets, we simply do not like subjectively that you have more municipalities here than in neighbouring countries. Honestly, you can't do that. The rules should be in place immediately. The government is still starting to initiate mergers in cases where the criteria are not met, municipalities are still too small or do not meet other substantive criteria. This is where the government intervenes and must unite, not so that we draw some kind of ideal map, and then we leave aside the other criteria. We haven't gotten to drawing a map yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U489	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U490	Thank you, President of the sitting. Mr. Minister! You spoke about social guarantees for local government leaders, who are in principle not currently covered by the Civil Service Act or the Employment Contracts Act. The Local Government Organisation Act is the only one that, more or less, regulates to a limited extent the duties of the local government manager. Did you mean the one-off compensation that the leaders who have resigned in the merged municipalities, or are you planning to come up with a proposal to amend the law so that these same local authorities can enjoy social protection in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U491	Thank you. We have been thinking about one-off support for those self-government leaders who lose their jobs during the merger, and we want to do so in a 'differentiated' way: those who have been in office for less than a year will receive less, and those who have been in office for more than a year will receive more, up to an annual salary. This is now an agreement that was born in the government coalition. But yes, it is designed as a one-off grant to mitigate the personal fears and concerns of the local government leaders arising from the merger. The experience of both Estonia and other countries says that reforms are often entangled behind such personal concerns. That's why it's recommended that you find the money. A very large part of Estonian local government leaders have been in office for a long time, they deserve it. This has been our proposal, but of course it is part of the bill that the Riigikogu must decide on. It is probably not popular among all Estonian people, but if we want to do something really, it is known that every reform has its own price, and therefore I would dare to go on with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U492	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U493	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. You brought forward three stages of the administrative reform in your reply and we learned that by 2018 this reform will have to be completed. My question concerns the long-standing disputes over the tasks and competences of the state and the municipality. There is a debate about the nature of the tasks of the state and which of the local authorities. The website of the Government of the Republic states that the purpose of the administrative reform is a municipality that is able to provide better public services to a person, to ensure the development of the region, etc. Will and at what stage will these competences be agreed to end disputes and ball rolling?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U494	Thank you. I hope that, during the discussions on administrative reform, we will also be able to conclude some substantive agreements on these issues. We have spent a lot of time on these issues in the Committee of Experts and in exactly the same way in meetings with the heads of government. Indeed, it is not just about moving borders, but about the tasks that must be done, how it has been financed. These things are on the table. We will certainly come to the committees to discuss them as well. However, I am not so optimistic that I would hope to solve all Estonia's problems with this one reform or one bill. I'm sure there'll be disputes. The municipalities always feel that the money is less than necessary to carry out their tasks. I recently read the minutes of the first Congress of the Association of Rural Governments of the Republic of Estonia. It was probably 1924 and the speeches made by the local government leaders were similar to the way they often sound today. The speeches were that stupid people sitting in the Riigikogu who do not know the concerns of local governments do not give enough money to cope. And it was exactly the moment of recognition that in 95 or 100 years, these disputes and conflicts of interest will be exactly the same in the air and the money will always be less than dreams. So the short answer is that we are dealing with these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U495	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U496	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I agree that Estonia must reduce the number of rural municipalities, but I see one danger that representation in large municipalities tends to develop from the 'centre' people. Many strong communities have emerged in Estonia, not necessarily in the centre of the rural municipality, but are somewhere on the edge. Has there been a solution or a problem that has arisen so that representation does not become centre-centred? And have you considered amending the electoral law within the framework of this reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U497	We must definitely review the nuances of the electoral law. In theory, it is possible to do the municipalities with their own electoral areas, as in Tallinn the mandates have been allocated to the districts. I understand that, in terms of integration and fusion, experts are highly advised not to do these things, because then perhaps regional rivalries remain, but theoretically this is possible. This may go a little far from the question, but the other side is the village movement and the role of village elders. At the time of supplementing the Coalition Agreement, we have taken the task of considering whether this area should be regulated more precisely, in a bid to highlight this as a well-sympathetic phenomenon. But it seems that the people of the local and village movement do not want any further regulation. This is a phenomenon of a very different nature, and when it becomes very regulated, mandatory with its rights and competences, it disappears like magic and the meaning of the matter. So, yeah, that's one part. It is equally necessary to review the electoral law with a view to how the election will take place in a new, united council. And I think he'll be even more complicated if the merger takes place on the initiative of the government. There's something to think about.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U498	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U499	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! Speaking of administrative reform, you mentioned a number of collections of shares, including the administrative body. You spoke of inclusion, communities, the role of village elders, but never touched on the involvement, implementation or rethinking of the local government union. What do you see, and do you even see the role and future functions of the local government union?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U500	Thank you. We've been over this a lot. When setting criteria or discussing how large the municipality should be, what will become of the local government associations will actually be drawn out. It is no secret that there are parties who think that municipalities should be the size of counties, and in this case the local government union created within the county will lose its meaning. Well, he'll be a little different if there's only two municipalities or something. We've been over this. I guess that also depends on where the border is drawn when the municipalities remain large. The current model of local governments does not work everywhere, we know that. Since participation is voluntary, not all municipalities belong in very many counties. Rather, conversations between themselves say that often there is just such a nice place to get together, there is no real function. Social democrats are very active in supporting it and are looking for solutions to improve cooperation between municipalities at regional and regional level. It's not a whole other level, so let's call it, I don't know, a semi-level government or something like that. This is the exact legal format we're looking for today. Forced volunteering doesn't sound very logical. What we definitely want to do is to regulate the inter-institutional bodies so that certain specific functions can be performed on a number of municipalities together. But it's kind of a function-based thing. How to give the local government association a real strategic management function is again one of the issues of this reform. We do not want to create any more bureaucracy in a small Estonian country. One of the objectives of this reform is precisely the opposite: that such fragmentation, excessive bureaucracy and administrative burdens would be less common in the Estonian country. How, however, can municipalities in the wider region even if local authorities join and already have 5,000, 11000 or 50,000 inhabitants to cooperate? Let's think. One solution is that we hand over some of the functions of rural governments to the local governments. The possibility of drawing up a development plan as a strategic document has been discussed. Public transport management, MAKs, the transfer of development centres, are also more specific ideas. It's on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U501	And the first question of September 22 is asked by Ain Lutsepp. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U502	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Are there any issues in the preparation of the administrative reform that would require specific treatment of the regions? Are there areas in Estonia that require special treatment in administrative reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U503	Thank you. I don't know, special treatment may sound a little too special, but we are prepared, as I mentioned, to allow exceptions. We'll get to those disputes. The key is to get the "key criteria" in place at first and then we can start discussing exceptions. I believe that if the border lies in 5,000 areas, which is the preferred option for experts, and there are three, four or five municipalities in the counties, larger cities in addition, there is no need for any very large regional special treatment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U504	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You spoke very sympatheticly about this part of the administrative reform, which concerns the integration of rural municipalities and, in particular, weak rural municipalities into strong administrative units. Some of your party associates have also spoken of the reverse process , that in the course of administrative reform it is not only necessary to unite, but also to break down some of the administrative units where representatives of the Reform Party are chronically in opposition. How do you comment on this claim?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U505	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U506	Thank you. Minister, there are questions for you. My colleague Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U507	When it comes to cutting Tallinn apart, it is certainly not part of the administrative reform. Personally, I don't support it, and I think we should forget about it. The Central Partymen ask me that every time I'm on the remote or performing somewhere. The truth is that we have in the coalition agreement the words 'capital law', 'updating the administration of the capital region'. This is a separate subject, and more time has been given for it. The Prime Minister spoke here today about the so-called power of the administrative councils in the districts, and this idea is indeed quite sympathetic. I have been a member of the central administration for a few years, and at one point this work seemed rather hopeless there. In short, the answer is that no, the rural municipality reform does not deal with the cutting-up of rural municipalities. Our main focus is still very small and those in rural areas who cannot cope.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U508	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U509	Thank you. I guess it's kind of ridiculous, in fact, that the question of 11 May will be answered now, at the end of September. You said that you came to the hearing in accordance with Parliament's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure. As a minister, how do you interpret the sentence in the Rules of Procedure that a question must be answered within 20 days of its submission to the addressee, the minister? That 20 days had come to an end some time ago, and within that time, you should have answered. The answer could have been in the spring or in June, in the summer. As a minister, do you interpret the Law on Home and Rules of Procedure so that you come back when the time is right for you, or should you stick to what the law says?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U510	I don't read these days myself, but I'm pretty sure I haven't broken that order. We are talking about the days of the sittings when the Riigikogu meets. I'm not following this process, but I certainly have not broken the rules of the process. I myself have been a member of the Riigikogu and I know that this summer break is long. I think it could be shorter. I admit, it really sucks when we get to the things we brought in in in spring today. But let's be honest, this summer we had a preparatory work, and this work is still going on. I think that in the spring the answers to the questioners would have been more general than I can answer today. In this sense, I believe that if the substantive answers are interesting, we can do better today than we would have done in spring.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U511	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U512	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm sure you had the opportunity to answer this question before Midsummer, but I don't really understand exactly how you're going to do this. Today's Eesti Päevaleht interview reveals that by the size of the municipalities, the criterion is 5000+. There is something else to be expected, for example, that instead of this model, where the local government associations play a relatively large role, you will start to form quite large municipalities, with the municipalities inside, at least you will use this term. If this is the case, what makes these municipalities different from the rather unsuccessful model that exists in Tallinn today, where are the districts? What will be the role of the elected representative of the people? So is there a representative of the people, or is there some sort of extension of the hand of a large parish in the form of a government?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U513	Thank you. I can assure you that there was no numerical purpose in the negotiations between the government coalition or representatives of the Reform Party. We have just had very long discussions in this very committee of experts, doing so apolitically. We have had a lot of analysis, experience in the past, etc., how to measure the capacity of local governments, how to assess the level of government administration working, what their budgetary opportunities, financial opportunities, investment opportunities, how they offer their services. A lot of things have been going on, and I believe that this has been a very interesting and educational process for everyone. Here too, the hat fell off in front of all those who made the previous reform plans. At one point in August, we arrived at a position in the Committee of Experts where we found that everything has its advantages and disadvantages, and finally we reached a consensus, almost a consensus, say, of the 20 members of the Commission of 18, that it was worth it, that one of the criteria for the capacity of the municipality can, however, be clearly considered to be the number of inhabitants. It was the result of the debate, not that we start with a number and then think about the back of the world. Believe me, it was the result of these analyses and debates, the debates, that it would come to a specific phase at one point. And when we had come to this conviction that yes, one criterion can be the number of inhabitants there were several other options: whether it should be the number of working-age residents, etc., then we took time and ordered more expert advice on what the size of the population could be, a specific number. We got several options on the table, as I said in the paper. The first was 3500, which the panel generally considers to be an absolute minimum, so that the municipality can function rationally today. The next step from there is 5,000, which comes out in quite a number of areas. At five thousand, the budget is large enough, the agency is large enough, there are full-time people who can be required to have a corresponding education, etc. This 5000 border also takes some account of the fact that demographic processes have not actually ended in Estonia. Landings are still taking place, the region of Tallinn and Tartu is where the population is growing, and the rest of the world is decreasing. We should look at this reform and the population from the point of view that we will not be in the same place in a year's time, that we would rather look ahead ten to fifteen years. The number was also 11000, where the main logic is that it is the limit of being able to maintain a large modern upper secondary school, which means 256 students for the Ministry of Education. So there were different steps, but in the end it is up to the Riigikogu to decide where it will draw that line if it wants to draw it. In the case of upper secondary schools, a lot has been asked what happens to upper secondary school education, whether it remains the responsibility of the local government or the state. The Ministry of Education and educational strategies are currently moving towards the fact that upper secondary schools tend to go into the hands of the state. And that's why a lot of experts and local government leaders are saying that pulling 11000 to 12,000 is wrong in the sense that if it comes from the ability to maintain upper secondary school while, at the same time, upper secondary schools are going to the state, it's a ridiculous criterion. But basically, it's debatable. I think that if the municipalities really want the upper secondary schools to remain, then you really need to join to reach the 10,000 to 15,000. This has been the case with figures-related discussions. As far as the divisions are concerned, it is possible to do them now. We want to make this regulation more precise, clearer. We want to create an administrative body. Indeed, if the municipality gets larger territorially and there is some very clear area of regional identity or peculiarity that wants to maintain, even for a transitional period, the status of the municipality with its own administration body, then this administrative body could still have a certain right to decide, for example, on the amount of the budget or the regional choices, so that it is not simply a beer room. We want to create this opportunity. I stress that if it takes away any tension or fear, use it. But it remains the choice of the merging municipality itself to decide whether or not to do so. So far, the merged municipalities have not used it, but perhaps, in the context of this reform, we will see more of the birth of these divisions. In the long term, this need may be lost, but in the short term, with four or eight years in mind, you can quite think about what is the function and power of public administration. But yes, indeed, if a division is made, if an administrative body is already set up, then the central unit could also give some decision-making powers. That's the plan. I believe that this seems to be a sympathetic behaviour for the Free Party if inclusion and local democracy do not necessarily have to go any further.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U514	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U515	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I'm afraid we're gonna get past this. The local government leaders have said that the minister and his team are going to present the plan, but there is no opportunity for discussion. Can you tell us exactly when the municipalities will be able to participate in the debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U516	Thank you. Well, that's a bit of a two-way question, isn't it? On the one hand, we have had meetings where we have gone and said: men and women, we are going to reform the administration, offer ideas! So they say they've had all kinds of ideas there for 20 years, that's enough, so come up with a plan. We are now at this stage, where there is just so much talk and thought, there is every political party, every self-government union. There are very different visions. In fact, however, we have really listened. At each meeting, including those I have been to perform, it is always the case that there are first a ministerial representative or my introduction and then a round of questions and answers follows. There hasn't been a single meeting that the minister goes in, makes an hour speech and then walks out the door. No, it wasn't! There's always been a debate place. Rather, the question now is that it is expected. Yes, we are ready, everyone understands that there is a need for reform, but a more concrete plan is expected, concrete criteria are expected, which will then already be debated and fought. In my opinion, the local government leaders are expected to be concrete rather than to offer a great deal of comprehensive solutions as an alternative. But I'm saying we still have time. Not tonight, but at this stage of the preparation of the reform, there is still time to discuss all the options.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U517	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U518	Thank you. Good minister! It is not possible to talk about administrative reform if basic concepts are not in place. Jürgen Ligi proved with his answers that a few basic concepts were still not clear to him. One concept is financial autonomy. I hope I'm not disappointed in you. Please explain to me what the financial autonomy of the local government means to you and how it will improve beyond the administrative reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U519	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! You mentioned the existence of upper secondary school as one of the criteria. At the same time, one could say, the Ministry of Education is also involved in administrative reform in a certain sense, planning to reduce the existing 200 upper secondary schools to 100. The consequences for local life are quite drastic. Is and to what extent your administrative reform vision correlated with the Ministry of Education's vision of what the new upper secondary school network must be?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U520	Yes, I explained that one of the alternatives proposed is indeed that there should be at least 11000 inhabitants in the municipality. This figure is mainly due to the fact that it is an adequate service area for upper secondary school. But it hasn't been decided yet, it doesn't have to be. The issue of education is often a central issue at meetings with local government leaders, and some people have a very clear vision that this is the municipality that is able to run the upper secondary school. I agree that we will not start this reform and the reorganisation of the Estonian state on an empty page. In many areas, some processes are already in progress. The plans of the same Ministry of Education, the formation of state secondary schools, are decisions taken by the government and the Riigikogu a long time ago. A great deal of Estonian taxpayers' money and the entire European Union taxpayer's money have been put behind them. These processes are ongoing and, in discussions with the Ministry of Education, I did not feel that they could take a step backwards or abandon the development of a network of state secondary schools. However, I do not really see any obstacle if the local government really wants to run a high school and has the money and the students. He can do that, and I think it could be a completely separate motivation for some municipalities to join. So this is a decision-making place. But I agree that, just as in the field of health and education, certain processes are taking place in many other areas. We're trying to put these processes on top of each other at one table right now so that they're somehow logically connected, and hopefully this will work.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U521	Thank you, Minister. No more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Colleagues Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U522	Thank you. It is very sympathetic that there are so many former mayors left in the hall at this late hour. You can see who are serious patriots: Viljandi's former deputy mayor, Chairman of the Tartu Council, Mayor of Saue, Chairman of Paide Council and two former presidents of Haapsalu Council are in the hall. In the last ten years, I was undoubtedly in Haapsalu's council in 2005-2015, and I saw only repression by the central government. It is extremely positive that the Minister of Public Administration has such a positive attitude towards local governments, and with this annual salary, he will also lure the heads of government to take a more positive view of the administrative reform. By its very nature, administrative reform should speak more about the concept of financial autonomy, more about the content of public services, about which public services cannot be provided. I was hoping to hear today from the Minister for Public Administration about the audit of which services have not been organised, which services can be better provided, in order to become more concrete. There is still too much general discussion about administrative reform. Another observation is that when you go to ministerial office, you go with a vision that you want to do instead of constantly looking for solutions. The vision of the reform of the revenue base and the standard of services should, in fact, be on paper and we are discussing it. No matter how resonant we talk about the administrative reform, the municipal reform or the public administration reform, we still talk about improving the living environment outside the golden circle. But we'll find out more soon enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U523	Thank you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U524	Mr President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu at this late hour! We are also a little sorry that the answer went so far against such a numerical criterion. In principle, you can really understand that life has moved on and that this limit may be somewhere in the area of 5,000 inhabitants, from which one seriously functioning municipality can perform all functions intellectually, culturally, in any way. However, I would like to hear more about the division of responsibilities and the question of financial autonomy. True, one further question will probably be answered. The second question is that Estonia is probably so specific and exceptions must also be taken into account here, whether it is insular or cultural. I would very much like to think about what to do in order to truly merge Setumaa in a situation where the centre of Setumaa is cut off from Estonia, so that it can still function culturally. There are many of these specific questions and special cases. Now this question, what are we going to do, if we have such a one-level government, this 5000+. That's where the model looks like it's going. If we have previously talked about such a semi-level model, i.e. that some functions will be moved to a regional level or resolved through local government associations, it seems to me now that the idea of a municipality can easily become a mirage. Yeah, that's allowed right now. However, if he withdraws into an administrative body that actually does not make much of a decision, I am afraid it will soon be abandoned. In fact, it seems that these community-centred decision-making units, or those units that could form a whole, are slightly smaller than what would then remain in the hands of the authorities or which are currently at the level of the municipalities. I am afraid that in that case, we will have such a result with the authority that there will not be a level of one and a half with the decision-making powers below, but will not even be well left on the same level. The second threat I see here is that the concentration of power in Estonia will not decrease, but increase. Even though large parties have their own points of reference, mostly in all municipalities. If we add them together, the proportion of the electoral alliances formed here and there will be even smaller. I would like to get convincing assurances that what is being proposed does not lead to further concentration of power, but, on the contrary, gives the local governments their decision-making powers so that they really function fully and within them communities also function. We cannot get that certainty on the basis of the current description, but I think we will continue the dialogue with the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U525	Thank you. Colleagues Artur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U526	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have talked a lot about the fact that Estonia could be made up of strong communities, not now in this hall, but otherwise strong communities. When I talk about communities in the so-called political circles, the community is often understood as a small domain or I don't know what. I understand, even now, from what the Minister said, that he understood the concept of my community to be an expert. However, I am thinking of strong regions that are considerably smaller than the small rural municipalities that are now, perhaps, such regions with 300 inhabitants. It is important to me that these communities have decision-making powers and are represented. I basically like the decrease in the number of rural municipalities in Estonia and the increase in the number of rural municipalities, but I see a very serious risk that decision-making and representation will be concentrated, or that the results of the elections will become centre-based and, accordingly, the representative body will take centre-based decisions. The same communities, which have already formed quite a lot in Estonia and which are quite strong, remain on the periphery and essentially have no decision-making powers and no representation. This is one of the problems that should be very seriously monitored, and this is certainly an important regional policy measure so that there are no small centres of attraction and the so-called peripheralisation process continues. The second thing I asked the Prime Minister here today. The state is an important employer with its various representations in the rural area. If the number of municipalities is now reduced in the course of the reform, this means that the number of people working in the municipality government will also be reduced. I agree, I always agree that the number and bureaucracy of officials will be reduced by bureaucracy. But when we look at regional policy, it is one of the levers of the country to keep life on the ground, to keep the country's jobs there, and thus to give people money and opportunities to live on in that country. This is another problem, I hope, that attention will be paid to ensuring that the few who still live in the country are not pulled out of there with a great sense of reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U527	Thank you. Are you talking about this? Yes, Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U528	Ladies and gentlemen, I am trying to save our time and I am not running to the speaker's desk. Since I understand that there are quite a few former local government figures in this hall, I hope that my idea will find support. Speaking of social guarantees, I actually support the Minister's view that we have good local authorities who should be protected to some extent in case they lose their jobs during the merger. But my thought went further. As a result of the amendment of the Civil Service Act, mayors, just as before the governors of the Council, fell out of this legal framework. There was a nuance that mayors, parish elders and councillors, they were paid or compensated, were no longer so socially protected. This is why perhaps, in the context of this major administrative reform, some minor errors should also be corrected, so let's say that these people, too, would have some confidence that their social guarantees would also be incorporated into the law. We never know whether the Council's statutes provide for some kind of social guarantee or not. Such a proposal to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-21_U529	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiation. Let's stop answering the 13th question.
