ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the sixth working week of the first session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. Please, do you have a wish to hand over any drafts or inquiries? The members of the Riigikogu do not have a request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present; no 19. Let's go to today's agenda. I would like to draw the attention of the members of the Riigikogu that on the first and second points of today's agenda, the procedure will be as follows: presentation of the representative of the leading commission, questions to the rapporteur, questions to any member of the Riigikogu, one oral question, subsequent negotiations, where only representatives of the political groups can participate, and then we will also take a final vote. So let's get to the first item.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U2	The first point is the first reading of the draft decision "Announcement of a member of the Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund" submitted by the Social Affairs Committee. Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U3	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian Health Insurance Fund is a legal person governed by public law whose highest body is the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund pursuant to Article 8 of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act. The Council has 15 members. Paragraph 9 (2) of the same Act provides that, on a proposal from the Social Affairs Committee, the Riigikogu appoints one member of the Supervisory Board from among its members. In addition to the member appointed by the Riigikogu, according to § 9 of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, the Minister of Social Affairs, the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu are members of the Supervisory Board according to the post. On a proposal from the Minister of Social Affairs, the Government of the Republic appoints one member of the Council from among the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs and five members of the Council are appointed by the Government of the Republic on the basis of proposals made by organisations representing the interests of the insured persons appointed by the Government of the Republic. On the basis of proposals made by employers' organisations appointed by the Government of the Republic, the Government of the Republic appoints five members of the Council. Pursuant to § 11 (2) of the Health Insurance Fund Act, the mandate of a member of the Supervisory Board appointed by the Riigikogu ends with the end of the mandate of the respective Riigikogu members or at the end of the term of office of a member of the Riigikogu. On 28 April, the Committee on Social Affairs sent a message to all the political groups that proposals should be made to be seen as a member of the Health Insurance Board. We received two proposals by 30 April. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party had proposed to the Social Affairs Committee that Viktor Vassilyev be appointed a member of the Council and the Group of the Estonian Free Party had proposed that Monika Haukanõm be appointed a member of the Council. On May 4, we discussed this issue, and Monika Haukanõm withdrew his candidacy. On 4 May, the Social Affairs Committee decided to consensually propose the appointment of Viktor Vassilyev, a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, to the Riigikogu and to submit a draft decision of the Riigikogu. At the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs on 5 May, we decided to consensually propose that this draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 12 May, today, to put the draft to the final vote and to appoint the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U4	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There are no negotiating requests either. No amendments could be tabled to the draft and the lead committee has proposed to put the draft to the final 16 votes. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Appointing a Member of the Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund" submitted by the Social Affairs Committee 16. Please take a stand and vote. There are 75 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the draft, with 6 abstentions, no one against. Bill 16 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U5	We will go to the second item on the agenda: First reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'A representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee' submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I would like the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Tarmo Tamme.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft is initiated in accordance with Article 2 (3) of the Agreement between Estonia, Iceland, Lithuania, Latvia, Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark concerning the Nordic Investment Bank and Article 2 (3) of the Act on the ratification of the Payment Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Nordic Investment Bank and the aforementioned Statutes of the Investment Bank. The Audit Committee shall be set up with a view to ensuring that the Bank's activities comply with the Statute. The Audit Committee shall be responsible for auditing the Bank's accounting records and shall submit an annual auditor's opinion to the Board of the Bank. The Audit Committee shall be composed of ten members. The members of the Committee shall be appointed for a maximum period of two years. The Nordic Council and the parliament of Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia appoint one member from each country. The Board of Governors of the Bank shall appoint two members to act as Chairman and Vice-Chairperson of the Board of Governors of the Committee. Representatives of the Member States shall, on a rotation basis, fill in alternately for the chairman and deputy chairman of the Committee. According to the decision of the Riigikogu, the following members of the Riigikogu have been representatives of Estonia on the above-mentioned Audit Committee: 1 January 2005 30 June 2005 Andres Lipstok, 1 July 2005 31 May 2008 Meelis Atonen, 1 June 2008 30 September 2009 Jürgen Ligi, 1 October 2009 31 May 2012 Taavi Rõivas, 1 June 2012 31 May 2014 Sven Sester and from 1 June 2014 Rannar Vassiliev. In connection with the appointment of Rannar Vassilyev as Minister of Health and Labour of the Republic of Estonia, a new representative is appointed to the Audit Committee. The Finance Committee proposes to appoint Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, as the representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee from 1 June 2015 until 31 May 2016. About what happened at the Commission. On 28 April 2015, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided by consensus to initiate the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of the representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee, the content of which is to appoint Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Monetary Committee from 1 June 2015 until 31 May 2016. No amendments were received by the deadline of 4 May. At its meeting on 5 May 2015, the Commission decided unanimously to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 12 May, i.e. today and put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U7	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Please, colleague Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U8	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! As far as I know, a representative shall be appointed to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee according to his post. In this regard, the question: did the Committee on Monetary Affairs also discuss that if the Assembly does not approve the decision to appoint the Chairman of the Monetary Commission as a member of the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Board, what is Plan B or the next solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U9	Thank you. No, we did not have such a debate in the Commission. We think that we could abide by the tradition and follow the principles that we have seen before. So if a new chairman of the committee is appointed in the future, he will be there in the Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U10	No further questions. Thank you very much for the waitress. Do the groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The commission has proposed the final vote on the draft 13th. We are preparing for the final vote. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Appointing a representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee' presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs 13. Please take a stand and vote. By 81 members of the Riigikogu, with three abstentions, no one is against. Draft 13 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U11	We are going to the third item on today's agenda: the first reading of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the Act amending the Vocational Training Institution Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Member of the Riigikogu, Mailis Repsi, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U12	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Today we, i.e. the members of the Riigikogu who are not members of the Committee on Culture, have the opportunity to examine bill No 1. Just as in the previous, previous and other compositions of the Riigikogu, this Riigikogu will be able to discuss and process one of the provisions of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, namely that concerning school food. Let me remind you, then, that there has been a school food tradition in the Republic of Estonia for more than ten years. In 2002 and 2003 the Government of the Republic found was found, and the Riigikogu came along with this idea very nicely, so that we could gradually start offering free school lunch in primary school, upper secondary school and also in vocational school. Initially the application of this comprehensive school is 1. to 4. In the following years, other grades and vocational training institutions followed the primary school and, quite recently, the upper secondary school grade was added. As regards the amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which we spoke briefly about yesterday during the discussion of enquiries, the topic of school lunch came up again in both the previous and previous compositions. It is very good to note here that all members of the Riigikogu who participated in the discussions and later also in the votes found that the school lunch must be laid down in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the Vocational Training Institution Act as a separate obligation that the state helps the local government to fulfil. When the cost of a school lunch was discussed about ten years ago, local authorities were asked for the opinion and statistics on it prior to the amendment of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. At the time, the cost of school lunch in kroons was very variable. In Tartu it was slightly less than 9 kroons, namely 8 kroons and 70 cents, which at the time was the highest cost, and in smaller municipalities where the cost of electricity or the cost of cooking was not taken into account for school lunch, the cost of cooking was slightly less than 6 kroons. On the basis of the calculations, the Government of the Republic and later the Riigikogu found in their discussions that 8 kroons and 50 cents are optimal, that this is justified in every way, and it also covered local governments with a small exception of Tartu, which at that time had made a contract with a public limited company with all the costs. And since Tartu did not contest this decision, these negotiations went very well, indeed the school lunch was considered to be nationally covered and free of charge guaranteed to students. In the previous Riigikogu quite a lot was discussed as to why it was decided at the time to ensure a school lunch for everyone. The reason why it has so far not been needs-based, which has also been discussed, but is guaranteed for everyone, is that the whole school lunch offer basically changed with this decision ten years ago. First of all, there was no distinction, there was no class distinction, so who went to school night school and went to the bar in front of the school cafeteria to eat a little better food on his wallet. Such a uniform diet was given very clear attention. For a number of years, school canteen renovations were carried out. This was greatly facilitated by the possibility of using both local authorities and European funds. Parents, the Ministry of Social Affairs and other experts who are more indirectly involved in the school have also paid very much attention to catering for children. To date, it can be said that a free school lunch is something that is completely characteristic of our education system. And just as we used to go to the Scandinavian countries to follow suit, we can now say that others are interested in Estonia's experience besides our southern neighbours. Perhaps you are already aware that in the Republic of Latvia, for example, there is a plan to implement the free school lunch system in Estonia from next year. They too, when visiting schools in their neighboring country, have found that such a uniform diet is something that provides children, regardless of their family background and food habits, with a proper hot meal a day. Now to the bill we are discussing today. In the previous Riigikogu, this debate was still ongoing. We started offering some free school lunch at upper secondary school in accordance with the agreement of the previous coalition, but the cost of food is now such that it is no longer worth dreaming of something else to fit in there. In particular, the support provided to local authorities for school lunch is still 78 cents per child. In view of the rise in food prices in this period alone, this support should be at least EUR 1 over the last five years. Local authorities have said in the negotiations that school lunch support, given that upper secondary school is now also included, should be above the euro, because young people, especially young men, clearly need larger portions and cost more than 78 cents. At the moment, the solution is that most local authorities themselves pay for the missing part. According to the information provided by the Rural Municipalities Association and the Cities Association, the amount to be paid is about EUR 1 to 1.5. The Ministry of Education and Research has repeatedly promised to collect information from local authorities and to carry out analyses of this, but until now I have not been able to read such an analysis. However, it is possible to rely here on the information provided by both the Estonian Association of Rural Governments and the CEOs of the Estonian Association of Cities, which they have received from their members. According to this, the amount they have put on the negotiating table this year is EUR 1.3. Why did we stick to one euro with our bill? Therefore, if we look at the price increase for the last five years alone, the product of the price increase will reach EUR 1 from 78 cents. But if we get more information from local authorities, we will, of course, also consider how to supplement our proposal according to this information. So, what's the problem? Of course, local authorities have always had an obligation to cover the costs of any educational system, but the last ten years have been the agreement that they will be limited to the pay and electricity costs of the cook. Ten years ago, when school food was introduced, there was never an agreement that local governments or parents would have to pay for the state's promise. So free school lunch, especially in view of its objective, should be guaranteed by the state. Now I will briefly remind you of what has been the greatest benefits of the school lunch offer and why it has also had student support for years. I dare remind you that student self-governments made proposals to this effect already before the previous Riigikogu extended the offer of free school lunch to upper secondary school level, the Riigikogu repeatedly. School lunch has led to an improvement in the quality of catering, as it is guaranteed to everyone in a uniform way and has become a normal part of our education system. In our time, we relied very much on research done in the Nordic countries, but now we can also look at our own experience. Unfortunately, we have young people who only eat hot food at school. This is no longer news for anyone, because there have been enough studies in Estonia that say that we have young people, families with children who live either in poverty or in deep poverty. There is another aspect of the offer of school lunch, namely food habits. Often, parents are away from home for a long time, children come to school without breakfast, so they have their first meal and often the only warm food a day. At best, the family eats together at night, but unfortunately, there are all kinds of dinners. So the first important aspect is that children receive hot, high-quality food, which is naturally guaranteed for everyone. Another and very important fact is that we have been able to train children to feed more widely through several programmes. I believe that most of the people in this Chamber are aware that we have dairy programmes, we offer young people healthy vegetables that they have started eating because of school meals. So there are several aspects to school food. To sum up, our proposal is to increase the cost of school lunch to one euro. The reason why we want to lay down this in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act is that when we look at the budgetary process, it is common for the existing obligations to be reviewed first. Therefore, now that the preliminary discussions of the state's budget strategy are under way, it is appropriate for the Riigikogu to give the Government of the Republic such a guideline that the cost of next year's school lunch is calculated as one euro per student. That is why we presented this draft immediately at the beginning of the work of the current Riigikogu. The budgetary process has begun and it is quite normal for the Riigikogu to be able to think along here and say its word. Of course, there is still much to discuss in the provisions of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. The new Parliament will have to discuss a number of issues, from state examinations to the provision of hours of work and rest for teachers. However, the financial aspect must be addressed at the outset precisely because the money can be planned in time for next year's budget and, later on, it cannot be said during the state budget procedure that this matter came unexpectedly to the coalition. Such a draft timetable is necessary. Increasing the allowance for school lunch from 78 cents to one euro, with a total cost of 5.9 million euros for all students, both in vocational and primary schools and upper secondary schools. Looking at the possibilities of the state budget, I believe that everyone joins the notion that this is not an impossible amount of money. That concludes the introduction of the bill. We will be happy to discuss the issue of school lunch today and then the other provisions of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U13	Thank you. You have questions too. My colleague Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U14	Thank you. Good Mailis, I just wanted to make it clear that there are no free lunches, as you have always mentioned in your speech. Rather, we could focus on the support for school lunch, which is actually what it is. The question is this: why did you choose to give preference to upper secondary school students to whom we are already paying part-time school allowance, such as kindergarten children, who are currently not supported by the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U15	Thank you, good questioner! Having been chairman of the previous Committee on Culture, Lauri Luik is well aware that in the previous Riigikogu we also had the opportunity to discuss the issue of the lunch of pre-school children's institutions, and we will certainly come back to this debate. At the time, the Committee on Culture decided to deal with Bill No 2 in the drawer for four years and this bill remained in the drawer until the new Riigikogu met. This time we decided to start comprehensive school, upper secondary school and vocational training institutions and discuss day-care catering a little more widely, because the procedure in the previous Riigikogu showed that there are very different perceptions and expectations. In fact, as you may already know, children eat in kindergarten not once, but quite several times a day, depending on kindergarten, either three or four times. It depends on what time is served breakfast and waiting. As a general rule, there are four meals and this means that state support should apply not only to lunch but to all meals of the day. The extent to which this can be done, the type of support that local authorities need, it certainly needs to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U16	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U17	Thank you! Good waitress! I would like to begin by congratulating you on your point. I very much believe that school food money could come from the state budget and that municipalities should not pay extra. My question, however, concerns the technical implementation of the draft. I can't help but get the impression that this bill is exactly what has been done to reject it. Why did you decide that there must be a sum of money in one bill, why should it not remain a question of budgetary arguments when the state budget has been presented to us? It is natural that the respective debates will take place then. There is no practice in our legislation that money numbers are written into drafts. That is why, for technical reasons, the draft is very clearly unacceptable and you can understand this perfectly yourself. It seems that the draft has been made for the public rather than for it to actually enter into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U18	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, thank you very much. As a former minister, you will, of course, remember very well the debates and debates on school food. I am pleased that, in addition to the support for school lunch, which at the time really meant free lunch, local authorities had to offer more immediately. In this respect, we changed quite a number of other provisions at the time. Why we have now proposed a financial approach to the matter, I have already partially answered that question, but then I will repeat it again. The reason is that quite a few previous national budget procedures have shown that if we come up in the autumn with a proposal to increase school lunch support, which we will of course do, then at first reading, the Minister of Finance, and later, the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs will be very capable of saying that, you see, this was not planned, it came completely unexpectedly, and we did not have time to plan these costs for the basic base. In order to refute such claims in advance, we proposed that consideration be given to the inclusion of these costs in the basic part of the state budget. The debates would then be a little simpler during the state budget procedure. Of course, there is an alternative here; I also looked at the proposal of the Government of the Republic that the other provisions of the PGS should be taken into account. We could, of course, but I'm not quite sure that the coalition would be more impressed. We can also rely on the wording that we used in our time for basic school and upper secondary school education. We then wrote very simply that the educational resources must be free of charge for the parent and compensated by the state for the local government. So we can also use the wording that food is free of charge for the school lunch allowance and that the costs incurred by the local government are compensated. Of course, you realise that then we will no longer be talking about one euro, but in the local government this amount will be considerably higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U19	Martin Kukk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U20	Thank you. Good waitress! I read the draft explanatory memorandum and discovered a sentence that would make an additional cost to the state budget of 8.9 million. You mentioned from the remote that the impact on the state budget would be 5.9 million. Are you sure you've calculated this correctly? Which one's the right one? Secondly, if you come to the Riigikogu with a specific bill with concrete financial proposals, do you not think it would be fair and reasonable to propose possible sources of cover? As we know, the state budget must be balanced, right? Of course, I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber who does not support the fact that school lunch should be even better and better.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U21	Thank you. First of all, as far as the amounts are concerned, 5.9 million relate to primary school, upper secondary school and vocational school. 8.9 million comes when state secondary schools are also taken into account, as there is another basis for their funding. Finally, here is the question of how to calculate. The cost directly related to this draft is 5.9 million, but if we provide one euro for support, we have to take into account that the state is actually already compensating for a higher amount for state secondary schools, because 78 cents cannot do it there. However, since state secondary schools are funded on other grounds, as are schools for children with special needs, we had to rely on the support currently available for municipal schools, which is 5.9 million. As far as we are concerned, say other provisions and the question of how we will deal with future drafts, where financial coverage is needed, it is, of course, possible to rely on drafts initiated by the Government of the Republic, where it has almost always been said that growth is the source of cover. After all, we have been following the news, and at least 2% of economic growth is still allowed, so 5.9 million will definitely come out of it. But if you want to be more specific, I will also listen carefully to Prime Minister Taavi of Clothing. He has said that raising VAT on hotels, for example, allows for all kinds of things, because every time he comes to the remote control, he mentions different reasons for raising VAT on hotels, from the living fund to the increase in income support. So I guess that's where the support for the same school lunch goes. There are other possibilities, but we have indeed been driven by economic growth today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U22	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have recently read in the media that food rations, as well as their quality, do not always meet the requirements for school and kindergarten food. Can you describe the quality of school and kindergarten food now and what analyses or reviews have shown, if any?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U24	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, the Ministry of Education has promised for quite a number of years that an in-depth analysis of both the cost and content of school food will be carried out. It has not been an honour for me to examine such a comprehensive document; rather, I have so far received reports from meetings with representatives of local governments based on cost analysis and, as I have already said, from the negotiating protocols of the Ministry of Education and the representatives of local governments. As far as the quality of food is concerned, it is handled by the Ministry of Social Affairs. I'm very sorry, I don't know exactly what kind of minister this is now, the official names have changed, but let's say, in the old sense, there are specialists in the Ministry of Social Affairs who look at the age of the child, how many calories, minerals, vitamins, etc. There are a number of preservatives and colouring agents that should not be present in food. This set of rules is quite in place. In addition, I believe that those in this Chamber know very well that parents are very sensitive to what is offered in a school bar or cafeteria, what sweets and whether there are there at all. Healthy movements deal with what kind of soft drinks can be provided, and exercise against energy drinks. So there is a very clear understanding of what, and to what extent, schoolchildren, not to mention kindergarten children, should get. What is the actual situation? The situation is very different. There are local authorities that really do receive vegetables from a nearby farmer, who store very large quantities of food themselves. There are schools that have their own school, as well as kindergartens. So the basic price and the added value that this small money allows are very variable. In general, on average, three out of five days have soup for lunch, and two have steaks and desserts. This, of course, varies, but as often as you go to schools, it turns out that's the way it is. It cannot be said that there would be such constant complaints about the quality of school food. Sometimes there's arguments, including students, about what to eat. For example, there is a great deal of debate about whether children are ready to eat fish, what fish products, etc. There are still dreams that there might be something more delicious, but that there are large scissors between what is desirable and what is offered, not very. In addition, all kinds of moves are the Best School Canteen, the Best School Cook, and children themselves often choose such better food days, and there are events in schools that recognise school lunch providers. So the focus on this whole subject is pretty big. Last but not least, when you look at the proposals made over the years, students are very sensitive about the entire school lunch supply system, and it is not limited to their own school.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U25	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U26	Thank you, manager. Good colleague Mailis! We know that everything depends on choices, which method to choose. I'm asking you if free school food and round money is a better option than the minimum increase in child support. Which would do better? Free school food ensures that all children can eat lunch, and round-the-clock money ensures that children can go to the club. However, the money obtained through the growth of child support may not reach the child. What's your preference?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U27	Thank you, good questioner! I am certainly not prepared to make competing arguments here, as very often used, that if, for example, children's benefits are increased, we must give up something else, and vice versa. We, the Centre Party and the Centre Party Group have a very clear approach. We believe that progressive income tax should be applied; we can carry out a proper review of the tax system, including with regard to corporate tax, with regional exceptions. It would generate sufficient resources to increase children's benefits as well as to fund the same school lunches and children's education of interest. However, the debate was quite adequate when this relatively controversial, "need-based" child support was introduced, which initially was EUR 8 absurdly. Then we really took the floor and said that in order to get this 8 euro, a person has to go to the centre, have to ask for it, prove that he is still very poor, that we better take direct action. These are, of course, catering, hobby education, the opportunity to travel to the centre when living somewhere further away, additional opportunities to engage in recreational education and sport, tools to prevent sports activities from being sidelined because there are no sports equipment or sports clothes. For the target groups we are talking about as beneficiaries of additional child support, it is certainly effective direct measures that are not subject to a charge. However, such general and universal child support and, for example, an education of interest, certainly cannot be opposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U28	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U29	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, Two questions. In your speech you referred to the Nordic countries and said, at least I understood that there the state would guarantee a free lunch. Maybe you could read these countries out. The second question comes from the fact that in my earlier life I have been the head of one municipality. In addition to the support of the state, we made a political decision to contribute ourselves to the school lunch in such a way that after school lunch there are also free groceries for children. But it is a political choice on the ground. Here's the question. Since the Centre Party is in power in Tallinn, could you not consider reducing the financing of Tallinn Television, which is EUR 3380000 this year, and directing this money to cover school lunch expenses?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U30	Thank you. First of all, as far as this choice is concerned, most local authorities have indeed made such a choice. For a clear majority of children, school lunch is free, despite the fact that the state currently only covers half of the costs, because the other half has eaten the price increase. This is also the reason why we are still talking about a much higher level of public support. The current situation is not fair. We all speak politically that there is a school lunch and the state guarantees it, although in fact almost half the amount is already paid by the local government. As far as the general choice is concerned, I believe you are aware that, unfortunately, this political choice has not been made in all municipalities. There are some municipalities that made school lunch support a very large debate a year ago. Saku was one of those who raised the issue that the local government was not prepared to pay this extra. It was absurd to say that since 78 cents couldn't offer lunch, it was said that if the parent didn't pay more (where exactly half of it needed to be paid), the child couldn't eat for free. At that, the lawyers of the Ministry of Education said that this is not the case, because the state gives 78 cents. And then, in fact, this absurd debate began that what to do if the state gives too little money is not enough for the local government, but there is no political decision that the local government pays more itself. So we are still faced with the fact that if the state clearly entrusts the local government with tasks, as you know very well as a former leader, we have not yet fulfilled the Supreme Court's judgment As far as the city of Tallinn is concerned, Tallinn will pay a great deal more to support the school lunch, just as you say it will be done in some municipalities you know. There are schools where there's a grocery store, there's schools where they don't offer them. There's morning mush that's paid at times, not at times. What are the opportunities for Tallinn to increase its support for school lunch and, for example, to offer an extra lunch, I cannot bring this topic to today's debate. I hope this can be discussed by Tallinn City Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U31	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U32	Thank you. Good waitress! Of course, I, as a mother, also welcome this national school food allowance. Since in Põltsamaa, my home municipality, children have long received free school meals in high school, my children and many others have also been full. However, I can tell from experience that not everyone is full because not everyone eats, even though food is free. I heard you say that thanks to public support, it has been possible to teach children healthy diets and everything else. But I didn't notice if you mentioned that there was, in fact, still a way to get extra money from the school food program. In addition to public support, there are various programmes that can make school food even better, healthier, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U33	Thank you. Actually, I mentioned there are programs like this. I will then make it clear again that various programmes and initiatives have come through different ministries. Thank you to the former Ministry of Agriculture, whose name has now changed! They have taken the lead in raising vegetables and everything else and discussing it. There is certainly a similar approach in the new Euro projects, too, that not only are they taught to eat vegetables, but children are also exposed to it. I do not know what your children's experience is, but I must say that there are quite a few children in Estonia who have discovered a turnip for themselves. At home often, one-chamber dishes may not be prepared in this old way. So, at least the townspeople have a lot of discoveries like this. The previous questioner also touched the Nordics. From the Nordic countries we took the example ten years ago when we went to get to know Finnish and Swedish school meals. I know that the same kind of catering has been done in Norway. There, however, local authorities decide more about how to do this precisely. There are schools where there is a warm lunch, and those where catering is organised differently. In Finland and Sweden, we did indeed go, and the Swedish system is interesting in that it has a long-day system in many schools, and school food is not only a school lunch but also a later dinner.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U34	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U35	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In my opinion, one of the best social policy decisions in Estonia has ever been made since 2002 when a free school food system was launched. It was continuously implemented in 2006, until the ninth grade. The explanatory memorandum does not mention that 22 gymnasts received school food support from September 1, 2004, but we do not say that free school food because it was free of charge in state secondary schools. I am also very pleased that you did not go along with the question of whether you prefer an increase in child benefits or free school food. After all, the rise in child benefits also affects those who are not yet schoolchildren. The question, however, is that, given the relative limitations of financial resources, it might be worth thinking about using up to 78 cents of support for kindergarten children.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U36	Thank you, good questioner! We will come back to this both in the Committee on Culture and in the big hall. But when we began the debate in the previous Riigikogu on the catering of kindergarten, our initial position was indeed that one euro in the same way and that it would be basic or lunch money. However, there was a very clear reaction to this, and many parents said that it was like half an egg, so that in such a case, catering in kindergarten could be free at all. For local governments, of course, this would mean such support that, since most local governments or, let's say, all local authorities have found a way to cover all or part of the food money for deprived kindergarten children, this money could be directed towards solving other very painful issues in kindergarten. So we have to come up with kindergarten catering. Unfortunately, as you know, during the years of death, there were families who first took their children out of kindergarten. Fortunately, local authorities subsequently reacted quickly and found ways to enable children to participate in kindergarten education, even in the case of this hidden poverty. Why is kindergarten extremely important? As the good questioner knows very well, we have also come to the general understanding in society that we often see all aspects of the social system, from preparation for school, early notice to social problems, thanks to the fact that children are in school and kindergarten. The longer they are hidden from us, the later we intervene, and the less we can support these children. Fortunately, the educational sector, the kindergarten, is still very strong in Estonia and is able to clearly take care of the educational and social aspects in addition to the general deposit.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U37	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U38	Thank you. Now we have come to the situation where we are talking about how Tallinn should be run. Some people who have also worked in municipalities know very well how it should be managed. They forget that the municipality is autonomous. Let me give you an example. In the municipality of Põlva, school meals are free of charge for all children, regardless of which municipality they come from. And it has been run by the Centre Party for over ten years, but it does not concern the subject currently being discussed. If the state does not provide a source of cover to increase school food support, then it is the municipality's choice whether it will do so at the expense of another activity. Should this be done in Tallinn at the expense of television? I'm offering the country a source of cover to get that money. I'm sure that money would be there if we stopped building a super ministry, scrapping an old building and selling that property to the private sector, or if we didn't take three new ministers in a year. Would that cover fit you?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U39	Thank you. I'm not familiar with all the details of the construction of the ministry buildings. However, since I once encountered a move in the ministry, I know that moving alone is very expensive, let alone construction. So it may also be one source of cover, but I believe that there are quite a few sources of cover for EUR 5.9 million in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U40	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U41	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! It is certainly very important that every child gets a warm school meal once a day and must be insured. But I have this question. You stand closer to the people of Tallinn City Government and the children of Tallinn have the right to receive this food. The previous Riigikogu adopted a legislative amendment that added 2.8 million euros to the entire budget, and this support was extended to upper secondary school students. Why, then, has the Tallinn City Government not made contracts with the schools of Tallinn so that they can receive this food money as well? You will initiate a draft to increase this support while your colleagues in Tallinn City Government do not comply with the law. You're closer to the people of the government. Can you communicate with them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U42	Thank you. Good questioner, first I really would not like to bring the debate of the city council to the Riigikogu. I know that there have been initiatives here so that members of the Riigikogu could be members of the council again, but maybe at this point they would avoid this issue. But if you answer briefly, you have been the mayor of the second largest city in Estonia for a long enough time and you know that one thing that all the local government leaders have agreed on for years is that the receipt of education support for the local government is absurdly long. You must know that this is not just Tallinn's problem, once you have been familiar with these things in Tartu and with the visits of Tartu. It's an annual debate. We are taking on the responsibility, we are raising teachers' salaries, either to a greater or lesser extent, but these are not due in January or February. If it goes well, they come in April, but sometimes they come later. I believe you know that the basis for this dispute is the question of the extent to which, how and when these subsidies will come in. I have not heard any debate about the sources of food cover in Tallinn. However, there are quite a lot of political debates between the city and the country, so maybe I'm not familiar with everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U43	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U44	Thank you. Dear waitress, thank you for this very interesting dialogue in this Chamber. We are very often spoken of, especially when people ask why the hall is empty and what is happening here, that the main work is done on committees. It is even hard for me to imagine how fantasticly interesting a dialogue could have taken place in the Commission, when the subject of kindergarten, general political issues, capital issues, etc. was already raised here. I know you haven't calculated, but tell me about how many hundred questions you were asked as a representative of the initiators at the Commission. How many hours did this debate last?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U45	It must be said that over the years, the Committee on Culture has discussed the subject of school food in a very detailed, quite thorough manner. The new Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu has discussed very thoroughly the specialists of the national opera and national broadcasting and who are representatives of the Riigikogu in these councils. However, the debate on support for school lunch remained extremely brief. So this debate here is trying to compensate for what we did not have in the Committee on Culture. Yes, let us say that there was no debate on this issue at all in the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U46	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U47	Thank you. In your reply to the previous one, you said that the main problem was the speed at which the grants were received, not their size. Did you mention this matter of speed, which was supposed to be the main problem, in your proposal as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U48	The issue of funding education is a little wider than just school lunch. School lunch allowance is one part of the education allowance, plus, of course, the costs of teaching equipment, the salaries of teachers, and so far there have also been teachers' training funds. This debate between the local government and the state has lasted as long as the Republic of Estonia has been: when will these receipts come, to what extent, how much will we pay in advance, if not much. Why did I say a little vaguely? Because I'm not familiar with all the disputes. I am currently a member of the Riigikogu, not a member of the Tallinn City Council. I've been chosen, but I've suspended my mandate. Therefore, today I do not dare to talk about what disputes the Union of Estonian Cities or one or other municipality still has with the country. There have been many of them. But one of the things that has continued for years is that teachers' salaries, school allowance money and all other education benefits are received by the local government when they have actually had to cover them from their budget for several months. And often not even the control figures given by the Ministry of Finance are the only basis for newspaper articles and the Minister's promises. This has been one of the issues that local authorities have raised very painfully and which have really caused problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U49	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, let me refresh your memory. I do not know whether you were in some kind of confusion when discussions were held in the Committee on Culture on the cost of school lunch. We had a special item for this, which also had to be discussed by a lawyer from the Legal Department of the Ministry of Education and Research. He spoke in depth about the situation that comes with all this and what these decisions involve. There were also suggestions that the topic of school lunch should not be specifically mentioned in the law as an amount of money. So it is not true that there was no debate or debate. There was also a close debate in the political groups. Do you remember having this discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U51	Thank you, Chairwoman of the Good Committee on Culture. I tried my best to be nice to you, but I guess I'll just have to say it now. You simply did not give the floor to the initiator, and the initiator could neither present his draft nor hold a debate on it. That is why there was no debate between me and the members of the Committee on Culture. Since you asked for it, I had to say it today. Of course, the next day you apologized and offered the floor, but that's what happened. So since you asked for it yourself, it is now stated. I believe that as a representative of Kalle Muuli's Committee on Culture, we can certainly talk in depth about what was said by the representative of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U52	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U53	Thank you! Good waitress! I'm gonna follow this debate and listen to the talk about school food support and education money. Do you really think we should talk about food when talking about education, or should there be some kind of public health or social funding here? Maybe it shouldn't have anything to do with education.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U54	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, the debate on what we should finance for education money has been very long. School lunch allowance is one of the things that the Ministry of Education and Research has passed on to the local government's income base, it is part of the education allowance. But even more painfully, in debates with the Ministry of Social Affairs, the funding of schools for children with special needs has been up for years. I will deliberately bring this parallel because there are many nuances in these schools, which are not at all in the field of education, ranging from technical accessories and medical supplies to other aspects. These debates have been long, there has been a great deal of dialogue. For the time being, the Ministry of Education has generally been responsible for this. As for school lunch, I don't think it's a medical subject. If we recall years ago, at that time, it was found that education support in a complex form of a single allocation is smarter. According to this, the decision was made. Indeed, this provision has never been opposed, for example, to teachers' salaries or anything else; it is a separate dedicated allocation. It makes perfect sense to keep all of this focused on education support.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U55	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Respectable waitress! Your answer to Mr Randjärv's question did I not understand whether, as far as you know, the school lunch grant allocated to the Tallinn gymnasts has been received from the state today. If that's what happened, when did it happen? Has Tallinn passed this money on to the schools and, if so, when?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U57	I am not familiar with Tallinn's provisions. I looked into the old school leaders with interest, nodded. But I can't comment. I know debate more generally, but on which dates these allocations come or go, I don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U58	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U59	Good waitress! I certainly support the idea that children should eat in school, just as kindergarten children should eat in kindergarten and adult people should eat and all people should eat at all. But the fact that different political parties from school lunch have shaped half-mystical activities that can be discussed three or four times by each Riigikogu, and then local authorities and the state can fight for decades on the basis of the laws adopted as a result of these discussions. Wouldn't it be more reasonable to hand over school lunches to schoolkeepers, to see that money in their income base, and to end this political mess here? Why discuss a matter that is clear to everyone and spin up only political dust?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U60	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, the issue of financial allocations and choices has been political over the years and not just for us. It is, as we have said many times today, a place of choice. We believe that one of these options next year should be the allocation of EUR 5.9 million. That is why we are raising this issue politically here today. It's one of our choices. Should the school lunch allowance be targeted or be included in the local government's general allocation? Ten years ago, it was part of the local government's general allocation and there were local governments who also served their children in their schools and kindergartens before the school lunch was supported by the state. But there were very few. After applying the allowance to school lunches, it became an obligation to do so in local governments. I must say, I believe you also remember that at that time, it came as a rather big surprise that there were school canteens. In quite a number of places, these school canteens were no longer able to cater for such a number of children. School canteens were in a very different state. So the school lunch grant was introduced after a few years of very rapid renovation of school canteens. It must be said that following political decisions, it is often necessary to take unexpected next steps, which the Riigikogu may not have foreseen at first. However, as far as the local authorities' allocation is concerned at all, I agree with you. The income base of local governments should be significantly increased. Then perhaps we could bring back here, for example, the debate on this same kind of recreational education or support for young people's sport. Remember, at the end of the 1990s, it was perfectly normal that recreational education was, if not entirely free in most local governments, very much supported it. For decades, the allocation of recreational education has been quite different in local governments. The cuts made a few years ago, which allegedly took away all the responsibility of local authorities for supporting sport, actually meant that support for sport in local governments would generally continue, but these cuts were just very painful. So it would be appropriate to restore the income base of local governments and, for example, to recall an education of interest. I believe that most of the local authorities, who are getting back a decent income base, would be prepared to support the education of interest more.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U61	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U62	Thank you. Today has been very successful, I'd say. Last time I agreed with my colleague Aaviksoo, I remember about ten years ago, when we were sitting in your office as Minister of Education, the Chairman of the Narva Council and Rector of the University of Tartu. But I also agree with him today. Why don't you get this out of politics? Perhaps the government coalition would take the responsibility of restoring the income tax revenue and the money stolen from the municipalities, which was taken away in 2009? At that time, it was said that if the economic situation returned, it would be returned. Now is the time, and if the government coalition would give that money back, then we would feed the children on Saturday, Sunday and also in the summer, I say at least on behalf of Narva. Why don't we make an offer like that? I think it's a very good source of cover.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U63	Thank you. I've already partially answered that. Yes, restoring the income base of local governments would not only be right but also fair. In fact, as an institution of the same Riigikogu, not all members are the same at their own time when this money was cut, we promised that it would really last only as long as it was necessary. Of course, in passing, it can be said that the increase in VAT was also allegedly a temporary measure at the time. Now no one's talking about 2% being put in there. So we need to talk about restoring the income base of local governments. I'll bring in another nuance. Unfortunately, no Riigikogu has complied with the Supreme Court's decision, which required an analysis of the obligations that local authorities must fulfil and which services must guarantee and whether they are financially covered. So perhaps restoring the share of income tax would not be sufficient, perhaps it would also be necessary to increase that part. Then the services that the State has now imposed on the local government would indeed be guaranteed, including, why not, the same school lunch.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U64	Thank you, waitress. No further questions for you. Now I would like to ask Kalle Muuli, Member of the Committee on Culture, to act as rapporteur on behalf of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U65	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture discussed this draft at two meetings. Indrek Kilk, lawyer of the Ministry of Education, who presented the views of the Government of the Republic, was invited to the meeting on 4 May. The Government of the Republic had decided on 30 April that it would not support this draft. The lawyer Kilk in the Committee on Culture pointed out the following reasons why the government opposed this draft. In particular, the draft explanatory memorandum provides contradictory data on the draft state budget cost, once it contains EUR 8.9 million, once EUR 5.9 million. Secondly, the wording of the draft is contradictory and strange in design. One sentence states that the Government of the Republic is free to determine the cost of the school lunch allowance, the second sentence sets a minimum limit for this allowance or fixes that amount. Thirdly, the lawyer Kilk mentioned that many grants have been mentioned in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, but there is no indication of any specific cost and there is no justification for setting the price of this one specific grant, the school lunch grant, in this law. The right place to discuss this cost would be the discussion of the state budget and the cost could be in the State Budget Act. On 4 May, the Commission raised the same question as Mr Aaviksoo here, so that perhaps it would be reasonable to provide for this support in the overall budget of the municipality. The state would provide support and then give the municipality an obligation to share free school lunch for children. The lawyer of the Ministry of Education answered this question, which a member of the Commission asked, that this issue had not been discussed before. The Ministry of Finance should analyze this first, only then will he be able to answer. The initiator of the bill, Mailis Reps, spoke briefly in the Commission, more or less the same as the one on the board, stressing in particular that this EUR 1 is, however, a minimum level which certainly does not cover the real costs. That was more or less the end of the debate at the meeting on 4 May. Procedural decisions were taken by the Commission at its meeting on 7 May. With 6 votes in favour and 5 against, it was decided to propose that the Riigikogu reject the draft at first reading. It was unanimously decided that if the Riigikogu decided to close the first reading, it would be proposed that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 26 May 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U66	Thank you. You have questions too. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U67	Thank you. Dear Kalle Muuli! You presented the position of the Government of the Republic, which does not support raising school lunch grant from 78 cents to 1 euro. The reasons were mostly formal. But this construction, so that it is right to discuss raising school lunch allowance with budgetary discussions, is not päde, because if the Minister of Education does not just stand for it in the negotiations and the Riigikogu does not impose this obligation on him, then in the autumn, when the budget arrives, the sources of cover will no longer be found. So I ask you if you understood why the Government of the Republic, in addition to the formal grounds, does not see the need to increase the allowance for school lunches.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U68	The Government of the Republic did not take the view, at least in the wording that reached the Commission, that it did not see the need to increase support. The Government of the Republic took a position on this particular draft, and that was the view that the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school and the law on vocational training should not include such an amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U69	Thank you. My colleague Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The Minister of Finance has argued that since local governments have essentially solved the problem with their own resources, they either pay the missing part of the food money or have it borne by parents, it makes no sense to touch upon this issue at all. We know that in 2008 the municipal income base was reduced and has not been restored. Did you discuss in the Commission what a compensation mechanism would be to ensure that this food money would still be sent out of the country's cup, but not out of the local government's pocket?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U71	Thank you. This was not discussed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U72	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U73	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The Association of Municipalities has asked for 1.3 euros per student for a school lunch grant. They consider that the grant to cover school lunch costs is too small and forces municipalities to channel ever-increasing amounts from their budget towards school lunch costs. Was the Cooperation Council of the Municipalities involved in the Commission's discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U74	Thank you. I gave a more or less exhaustive overview of the Commission's meeting on 4 and 7 May. No one other than Indrek Kilgi, a lawyer at the Ministry of Education and Research, had been invited to the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U75	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U76	Thank you, Honourable Manager. Waitress! Having recently been Vice-Chairman of the Tallinn City Council Committee on Culture and Education and Director of a School, I would argue that all reformists, social democrats and also IRLs fought for free school food in the council and as directors. Everyone channeled and realised that this extra cost was not planned for the city's budget, and allowed to channel this decision and will to the Riigikogu. Now I'm in the Riigikogu and I see a completely different picture. I want to ask if there are any different parties. Is there one party that is under the city council and another party that is of the same name but is in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U77	Thank you. It is my task here to represent the views of the Committee on Culture and to give an overview of what took place in the Commission. This issue was not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U78	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! The position of the Government of the Republic states that the amendment of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act and the Vocational Training Institution Act is not an appropriate way to increase the allowance for school lunches and, if there are sources of cover, the corresponding costs are planned in the Annual State Budget Act. For five years, no sources of cover could be found to increase the allowance for school lunch. Don't you think it's high time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U80	Thank you. I have already said once that it is my job to give an overview of what was discussed in the Committee on Culture and what was decided by the Commission. But if you ask me personally, I thank you for the opportunity to express my personal position. I am happy to express this if colleagues do not consider it an abuse of time. I also think that this amount, EUR 0.78 or 78 cents, is small, it should be increased. But I, too, believe that it should not be increased in such a way that it is written into the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act or into the VET Act, but really should be done in the State Budget Act and on the basis of discussion. You may have noticed that the coalition and the government are very much planning to increase family allowances and child allowances, including the almost distributed child allowance from EUR 45 to EUR 60 over four years. In my opinion, it would be quite reasonable to consider or discuss whether some of this increase in child support should be paid out as school food aid. If we look at these sources of cover, 5,9 million are written in a single number of explanatory notes, then if I could count correctly and quickly, I would say that this is one five-euro increase in child support. It would be a good thing if we could bring the debate together with the coalition and the opposition so far that we could end this disgraceful bickering about school food support that has been held here for ten years in such a way that we pay part of child support out in the flesh to those children who go to school.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U81	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U82	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Speaker, I very much like the idea that the state should provide free school food, but unfortunately the real situation now shows that local authorities need to make a good contribution. These tables, which are set out in the explanatory memorandum, show well that in the last five years the subsidy has increased by only 4%, including four years it did not increase at all. Should children's health be a national priority, or do we rather leave it to the local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U83	Children's health is certainly a national priority, and so is the case. We are discussing a very specific draft law here. The Committee on Culture specifically proposed that this amendment be rejected. Nobody proposed to exclude children's health from national priorities or anything like that. We did not address the issue of children's health or its inclusion in national priorities, but only one particular aspect, school food.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U84	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U85	Thank you. Good performer! The allocation of money for school lunch, as I understood, was discussed in two sessions and then the initiator was not given the floor, which is, of course, absolutely extraordinary. However, just before the elections, there was an identical bill in this Chamber and everyone supported it. Now the coalition, the IRL, the Reform Party and the Soviets did not support the draft. Did you also have a discussion about what caused such a change of mind and memory loss?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U86	Those aspects, in the opinion of the government and the lawyer of the Ministry of Education, why this bill did not fit, I pointed out here. The members of the Committee on Culture did not express their views on why they felt the same or the same way, not on the part of the representatives of the government association or opposition, not on the part of any member of the Committee on Culture, in fact. So I cannot answer your question in essence, because such a thing did not come up in committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U87	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! According to recent data, nearly a tenth of children live in absolute poverty. School food can be the only warm food for these children per day, so it is especially important that it is also of high quality. How does the Government of the Republic plan to offer children a high-quality and full school lunch for EUR 0.78?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U89	Thank you. I certainly can't answer from this remote control for the government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U90	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U91	Thank you. Good colleague! I listened to you say, when you answered the questions, that one thing is the opinion of the Committee on Culture, the other is your personal opinion. I liked that you dared say it. Not only did you also say that the current amount of school food support is shameful. That's what it is, 78 cents. It's been 78 cents in five years. In five years, two new versions of Windows have been published, in five years the Minister can change his car twice, in five years many children have graduated from school, in five years a large part of them have migrated abroad. The school food allowance, however, is still 78 cents. Of course it's a disgrace. But my question to you, as a member of the Committee on Culture, is this: what are you going to do in this committee with this shame, and are you going to do something as a member of the Commission, so that not only are you ashamed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U92	I have just expressed my personal opinion and also said that I believe that this issue should be discussed in the debate on the state budget. I also spoke about my possible proposal to my groupmates, to my colleagues, which could be considered. I think that was the answer to your question, which I intend to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U93	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U94	Thank you. Dear Kalle Muuli! That's a pretty interesting situation. For decades, as a journalist, you have criticised politicians who explain why nothing can be done. Now you are in the chair yourself in this role to explain why nothing can be done, although food prices have risen by 23% over five years, but school food support has increased by 4% and can no longer offer a decent lunch. Then why don't you offer me a solution to what we can do? What can be done to make school lunch at least compensated for the price increase as early as 1 January?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U95	Thank you. You can do this to discuss writing this amount into the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U96	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U97	Thank you, Honourable Manager. Honourable waitress! Recently, we gave the right to vote to 16-year-olds. It's a great and smart decision. But now maybe you'll talk about how you're gonna give your future voters, gymnasts, say, 9th, 10th, 11th and 12th grade, why don't you give them the free school food they're promised or totally compensate? It was promised before the election. Please let us discuss this matter and not say that the Commission did not decide and the Commission did not discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U98	Thank you. If it were up to me, I'd definitely give you that free school food. But we are talking about Estonia, the government and the state budget. That was the decision of the Committee on Culture: to propose that this draft be rejected at first reading. It's not my personal decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U99	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Respectable waitress! You've signed a coalition agreement, and you probably know its contents better than I do. What does the agreement say about the school lunch grant? Does this give us any assurance that the coalition will really offer a significant increase in school lunch support in the draft state budget for the coming year?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U101	Thank you. I haven't signed the coalition agreement. I wouldn't want to speak here on behalf of the coalition, either. I speak on behalf of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U102	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Do you have an overview of how much of the school lunch price is now paid by the municipality, how much of the state and how much of the parent? What is the contribution of these three parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U104	Thank you. I guess this situation is different. There are many municipalities in Estonia, more schools. It is difficult to come up with a generalisation for everyone, but I don't think I'm wrong to say that half of the sum comes from the municipality and half from the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U105	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You said that you would support school food being paid by the state, and you believe that this amount must be increased. Do you personally propose to increase school lunch grant during the state budget process?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U107	Thank you for your question. It is really very difficult for me to say what I will do in the coming autumn or any other time in the future, but I will certainly raise this issue in my group. How do the questions come to the correction of one committee or another, one law or another, it is really very difficult to say at the moment. Well, that depends on the country's wallet, which I don't have an overview of at the moment. If the state doesn't have any money, it can't be paid out, but if it is, it has to be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U108	Siret Eagle is not in the hall right now. Let's keep going. Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Kalle Muuli! Various structures and, as far as I know, the Estonian government have promoted organic food and its use in Estonia. It has been said that schools could also use organic food. We know it's good for health, but organic food is definitely more expensive. Is the promotion of the government's organic food related to a real plan, or is it demagoguery? If there is no additional money to implement the current proposal, how can we find funds for more expensive solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U110	Thank you. I don't know what to say about government plans. This plan was not discussed in the Committee on Culture and this was not the issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U111	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The school lunch allowance has been at one level for five years, at 78 cents. How long do you think the same trend could continue and could school lunch allowance be the same as child benefit that was unchanged for ten years?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U113	The same trend could continue until the end of this year, as it is stated in the state budget. When a new state budget comes, we will discuss whether this support can be increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U114	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U115	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Was it also analysed in the Commission that it would actually be reasonable to provide children with local food as a preventive measure? The supply of local food remains largely behind the scarcity of resources and, I would say, a rather silly purchasing system. Have you discussed the provision of local food and the allocation of resources for this purpose?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U116	Thank you. No, this has not been discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U117	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U118	Thank you. Good colleague! You're the representative of the IRL on the Committee on Culture. School children's food support, which has remained on 78 cents for five years, does not want to increase the coalition now and has not raised it for five years. What have the coalitions led by the Reform Party done in five years? They have raised excise duties on fuel three and a half times, which increases home expenses. Apparently, the IRL likes it, it's almost their programming activity. Over the course of five years, the Employment Allowance Act has been passed, making the future of one hundred thousand people uncertain. Is this 78 cents in the way of time, or is this a purposeful activity? Let's see what the coalition's result is. Wage poverty, unbridled price increases, emigration, the empty stomach of Estonian children. What do you think the IRL is doing in such a coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U119	Thank you. In my opinion, IRL is a coalition partner who has signed a coalition agreement and is involved in the management of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U120	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U121	Thank you. Dear waitress, What do you think could be the amount by which the cost of school lunch could be increased? I mean for lunch. Of course, since you are supposed to answer that as much as the budget allows, I will specify that I am asking for your personal opinion. How many percent of this sum could increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U122	Thank you. I'm not a cooking specialist or culinary, and I don't know how to tell you that kind of money. My view that this amount is too small is purely due to the fact that it has remained the same for five years. Over this period, there has been an increase in prices, and at least this amount should certainly be higher. But I don't know if it's supposed to be even bigger and what the final sum is, I can't tell you. I think that the minimum amount of EUR 1 proposed in the draft could be a completely realistic amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U123	George Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Did the Commission also raise the issue that the €1 proposed by the Centre Party Group is too small, that there is no free school lunch and that this amount could be increased? Was such a trend or trend in the Commission at issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U125	Thank you. There was a brief discussion of this position, which was presented by Commissioner Mailis Reps, on behalf of the initiator of the draft. However, there was no discussion or discussion on this subject at any longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U126	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U127	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand you are here today as a representative of the Committee on Culture, but I want to ask your opinion. Is our state budget so poor and small that we cannot offer our children a good lunch?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U128	Thank you. The Estonian state is certainly not so poor that it cannot offer its children normal meals at school. It's really hard for me to tell you why this hasn't been done before, but I think this composition could take care of it and do it. The fate of the state budget and the items of expenditure depend on us. This bickering about school food and cutting the political profide once in a while on the other hand (now the opposition is working on it here) I think that we as grown-ups could be ashamed of our children.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U129	George Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have the impression that the current power union attaches great importance to the discussion with civil society and society at large, which is certainly commendable. I hope I have the right impression. I expect that you also invited representatives of the local governments to the Commission, both representatives of the Cities Association and representatives of the Municipalities Association, because the municipalities are very strongly involved in the school lunch and education system. What was their opinion on the Commission? What input did they give you? I mean the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U131	Thank you. I may have answered that question once, but I'll answer it again. The only guest of the committee was Indrek Kilk, a lawyer at the Ministry of Education. The representatives of the municipal associations were not present. I can't tell you if they weren't invited or if they didn't come.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U132	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Good Kalle Muuli! Please tell me whether, while discussing this issue at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, you have made a clear statement of your very estimable position, as you have done here, that compensation for the cost of school lunch by the state is too small, and it must certainly be increased, if not before, from next year. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U134	Thank you. We discussed this issue very long in our group, in the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, and we shaped our position on the draft proposal there. Since I do not consider it appropriate to include this amount in the basic school and upper secondary school law or in the law on vocational training institutions, I do not consider this amendment to be acceptable or correct and I am in favour of rejecting it, I did not make any other statements in the Commission either. I have read dozens of pages of this debate, which has been held in the Riigikogu Culture Committee and in the Chamber during previous formations. It gives a pretty comprehensive and exhaustive overview of all aspects of this draft, as they have, in essence, been in exactly the same wording and in exactly the same form of debate. So I did not need any more in-depth discussion in the Commission on this issue, as I believe that everything has long been clear and discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U135	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! Each Riigikogu has some new practice and precedent. In the previous Riigikogu, we saw quite a number of interesting tendencies, which can clearly be described as becoming more and more rubber stamp in the Riigikogu. Almost 60% of the Riigikogu has changed, you are new here too, more discussion is expected. We are now in a situation where the Committee on Culture is either accidentally or deliberately not giving the floor to the initiator, there is no debate in the Committee on Culture. As your leading judge, who is responsible for this area in the Committee on Culture, you come to this Chamber and you say, without a glance, in answer to all the substantive questions, that you have nothing to add on behalf of the coalition or the government, because there was no debate in the Committee on Culture, even though you are the leading mentor and your task was to stand by for the debate to take place.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U137	Thank you. If I am very precise, I must say that the chairman of the committee did offer you the floor, albeit late and not at the right time. That was the offer, and, if I remember correctly, you said you didn't need a word anymore. In my opinion, and I think that the other members of the Committee on Culture, too, because they did not raise questions, this debate was completely exhaustive. These arguments, which were raised, were sufficient, and I also consider them entirely right in person. At least some of them overlapd with my personal opinion even before they were presented in the Committee on Culture. So I don't think there was anything missing or undisputed about it. All the members of the Committee on Culture were able to express their views, ask questions, speak. No one was stopped. True, as a waitress, the chairman apparently forgot to give the floor, but he apologized and offered you the floor later.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U138	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U139	Thank you. Good performer! It is very nice that you said that our children are worth a better lunch than what is now, and we could make this change within this membership. Right now, the bill's on the table. Let's do it! Then why did you vote against the bill? Can you name who else voted against it for the verbatim report?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U140	Thank you. Actually, I already answered that question once. I am against this bill because I believe that this amount should not be included in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act or in the VET Act. These laws are not places to determine the amount of the specific allowance, i.e. the school lunch allowance. Even if it is because, in the event of a change in food prices, we should start processing the law again next year and writing new sums into it. But also because the state budget cannot be done by writing a huge amount of spending articles into different laws, and in the autumn, the government takes the calculator, rounds up the figures and looks where it is going to find the sources of these expenditures and if it does. That is why I do not consider or consider it right to support this bill and I think it should be rejected. The votes were divided as follows: 6 for and 5 against. The opposition was united and the coalition was united, the members of the coalition voted in favour and against the members of the opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U141	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U142	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You have said that you do not conflict with your conscience and have always been in favour of more discussion. But if today this bill is voted out, then the discussion will end. How are you going to vote here in the Riigikogu Hall today?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U143	Thank you. I am voting as I voted in the Committee on Culture: I am voting in favour of rejecting this bill. But I don't think the discussion is going to end like it hasn't been over for ten years. On the contrary, I hope that the discussion will go on and that it will go on during the debate on the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U144	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! You argued here that since you have studied previous verbatim reports, you have received a sufficient overview of the subject as a leading manager. As a leading judge in the Committee on Culture, were you also of the opinion that we do not need to discuss this subject in substance, because you have already read the verbatim charts? Is this also the reason why you have presented the positions of government representatives to other interested parties today, as well as the debate in the coalition, for example, so briefly? The others want to read the verbosograms. How are you generally satisfied with the progress of the proceedings in the Committee on Culture on 7 May, when we had four items on the agenda, three of which were quite substantive, and the fourth was the debate on the same draft law on basic school and upper secondary school, but the hearing lasted exactly 35 minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U146	Thank you. In my opinion, this debate was quite sufficient. I think I said that once. In this sense, I certainly have no complaints to the Commission's work. I assume that the other Members do not, either, because everyone had the opportunity to speak freely at the committee meeting, to express their opinion and to hold a debate. If anyone did not have enough of this debate, the opportunity to participate was not taken away from him. So, in my opinion, the debate that took place in the Commission was exhaustive and sufficient.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U147	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Kalle Muuli! I understand that many issues were not discussed in the Commission. However, I have a request that, in the future, if you start discussing school lunch, you also discuss the issue of local food producers. How do you see the Central Party proposal affecting local food producers?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U149	Thank you. As a member of the Committee on Culture, I really do not know what to think about the impact of this draft or decisions on food production. However, I have dealt with educational and cultural matters. Food production is too far away from me to improvise in this remote control.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U150	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U151	Thank you. Good colleague! You said that the amount that we are talking about today could not be written into the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act or into the VET Act. Is there any hope that in the autumn budget law we will see the figure we are talking about today?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U152	Thank you. I have hope, yes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U153	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U154	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, Today is a remarkable day, because the number of the bill has appeared on the tables of the Riigikogu 1. This bill has been submitted by the opposition party. Does the fact that the Commission proposes to reject this draft mean that we will continue to have this rubber seal rule and all the proposals that come from the opposition will be rejected in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U155	Thank you. I can only talk about this bill, I don't know what will happen to the future. I don't think they all come from the Committee on Culture. If the members of the Riigikogu vote for or against this bill in accordance with their conscience in this Chamber, I would not call these people rubber stamps.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U156	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U157	Thank you very much. Good waitress! I'll pick up where you finished. You spoke of a conscientious vote. I understand you can't vote for your conscience today. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U158	Thank you. It's not like that. I vote for my conscience.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U159	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I see that the political groups have a desire to negotiate. Please, Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U160	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I want to continue with the idea that my colleague, Mr Aaviksoo, started with a small reply in today's debate. The whole discussion today is a good example of how much damage it will do to discuss an important issue over-politicising this issue. It is true that the Estonian state supported the school lunch of students even before 2006, but the question has been politicised for the last ten years 'thank you' to the Centre Party. In 2006, I worked as a schoolmaster. The Ministry of Education was then led by a representative of the Centre Party. To be honest, from that time on, nothing really comes to mind about the endless school lunch theme and the self - commendation for making decisions on this subject. Fortunately, the following education ministers dealt more with the content of education until the first government of Taavi Rõivas took office, and in March last year, the topic was taken up again for free school lunch, this time for gymnasists. To be honest with the Minister for Education at the time, I say that a few days after his appointment, he gave the Teacher's page an interview, where he made it clear that he was relying on the support of local authorities to give the gymnasts a free school lunch. But his coalition mates, both from the Social Democrats and the Reform Party, were happy to continue using the expression 'free school lunch for the gymnasts', because it sounded so good and so tempting to potential voters. It was difficult to give up this temptation, even if it was known that the expression was not accurate. It was always and again a school lunch allowance for upper secondaryists, and a large part of the required amount was borne by the local authorities. Many mayors were also slightly affected by the ministerial decision that the state paid the school lunch grant in full for students in state secondary schools, but the municipalities had a significant share of the sum in the schools they run. Now there is a complicated system for paying for a school lunch, which was quite wittyly described in a editorial this January: the school lunch steak is paid by the state, for potatoes by the local government and for salad by the parent. Does this system have to be so complicated, or would it still be feasible for the Estonian state to pay for a school lunch? Today, I was delighted by what co-rapporteur Kalle Muuli said that he felt that it was feasible for the Estonian state to pay the full price for the school lunch. The question now is whether this problem should really be resolved by means of the draft under discussion or whether it should be hoped that the state budget should be dealt with. It's a pretty tough decision. It seems to me, too, that the method chosen by the initiators is not the best way. However, I honestly admit that I do not have the slightest belief in the coalition's will to resolve this issue through the state budget. That is why neither I nor my fellow Members want to vote this bill out of the procedure. Kalle Muuli's words that he has not signed the coalition agreement give hope that sensible and intelligent proposals for improvement could have a large number of supporters in the autumn budget debate. In fact, what he said in me raised a sinful question as to whether the coalition has any support from the majority in this hall if the substitutes of the Riigikogu have not signed the coalition agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U161	Mr Sults on behalf of the Centre Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U162	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! Thank you to the previous speaker. I've been a teacher for 30 years, of which I was a schoolmaster for 20 years. School food is not a political issue. When a person's hungry, he can't learn. When a person's hungry, he makes up all sorts of stupid things. If I'm told you're free, I think free is free. You softened the saying that the president of the Reform Party, the current Prime Minister, said that part of the local budget had to be paid off. None of the municipalities had been warned that free school food should be compensated. Tartu immediately compensated and composted, of course, the decision that the country made. Tartu immediately said no. There is your government in Tartu, the government of the Reform Party, so don't point a finger at Tallinn. What took place in the Committee on Culture was absolutely unacceptable if the floor was not given to the author. As head of school, I'm used to any decisions or debates, no matter how stupid a suggestion seems to me, it's worth discussing and talking to the end, because it may turn out to be a very good proposal. They just cut it with scissors and that's it. Couldn't get word from no specialists, performer, practitioners, no one. As a 54-year-old guy who's survived the golden 1990s, I remembered the good old time: Batka came, Batka said, and the rest of the comrades jumped. That's not how it works. I came to the Riigikogu to work. Let me do my job! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-12_U163	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. A procedural question, Martin Repinski? The political groups have no more requests to speak. The Steering Committee has proposed to reject draft 1 at first reading. Let's go to the voting procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting against the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 41 votes for and 31 against, no abstentions. The draft has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. Today's agenda is exhausted. Thank you, colleagues. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 12.01 p.m.
