ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U1	Dear colleagues, good Riigikogu! Good guests! We will begin the 4th working week Tuesday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please, Siret Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, we are submitting an inquiry to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas and this concerns the closure of Omniva's post offices. If, in mid-November of last year, Urve Palo, then Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, confirmed that there will be no large-scale closure of post offices in rural areas, now, less than a year later, we are talking about Omniva's plan to close all 201 post offices left over five years. If there are several post offices in some cities, one country post office has a significant role to play in local life. Each time a country post office is shut down, local residents are more painfully struck than the inhabitants of a larger centre. It will also certainly increase unemployment in the country and, as we know, there are already few jobs in the country. According to TNS Emor, one in six Estonian residents visit the post office at least once a month. Data show that, on average, post offices are visited more frequently by residents of smaller cities and rural settlements. Compared to other regions, there are somewhat more people in the country who go to the post office to make payments, as well as those who have bought goods through post offices. In all of this, we want to pass on the question of five questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U3	I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The image of Estonia in the world is small and smart e-governance. It's a beautiful and lovely side of the coin that we all love very much. At the same time, as we all know very well, there is another, darker side. Estonia is a country where the work of the most educated is less paid. We are aware that for the last ten years, the gender pay gap, i.e. the gender pay gap in Estonia, has been the deepest in the European Union. This has been highlighted not only by the European Commission and the Council of Europe, but also by the OECD, the organisation of the most developed economies in the world, which we are very proud of. So, there's a problem. Our Home and Working Procedures Act provides for a parliamentary opportunity to solve a problem in society, such as the establishment of a Committee on Problems. We have rarely used this opportunity for some reason, but let us use this time the right of Members to intervene in the legislative process and solve a problem, such as order and duty. Let me hand over a draft signed by 53 members of the Riigikogu, according to which we wish to form a Committee on Gender Equality. I hope that the representatives of all six political groups in Parliament, which make up more than half of the members of the Riigikogu, will have sufficient strength to make our will a reality. The Estonian proverb says that anything is possible with good will. Our will is in our hands. So let us do something that has meaning in society! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U5	I would like to ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates the draft Act on the ratification of the Estonian-Russian border agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation and the agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation on the delimitation of maritime areas in the Gulf of Narva and Finland. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Marina Kaljurand when the bill is being processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U7	Please welcome the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Henn Põllamaa! No? Are you sure? Then please take your name down. Good fellows! Looks like there's no more calls. I have adopted two drafts on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu and one inquiry, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further proceedings. Now, let's do the presence check. 81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U8	Let's start working on today's agenda. The first item is the debate on Estonia's migration policy as a key national issue. Dear colleagues, let me first briefly introduce the procedure for this debate, which follows from § 153 of our beloved Home and Working Procedures Act. On the proposal of the European Union Affairs Committee, the Board of the Riigikogu appointed the next procedure for discussing Estonia's migration policy as an important national issue. Firstly, the presentation by Kalle Palling, Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs, will be up to 15 minutes, then the questions and answers will be up to 20 minutes. Followed by the presentation of Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur for up to 15 minutes and questions-answers for up to 20 minutes. Thirdly, the Minister for Social Protection Margus Tsahkna gave a presentation for up to 15 minutes and questions-answers for up to 20 minutes. Fourthly, the presentation of Eero Janson, Chairman of the Management Board of NGO Estonian Refugee Council, for up to 15 minutes and questions-answers for up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask any rapporteur an oral question within the framework of this item. After the presentations and answers to the questions, negotiations will, of course, be opened. At the request of the European Union Affairs Committee, I propose to the Riigikogu that representatives of the political groups speak first. After them, it is also warmly welcome for all members of the Riigikogu, including representatives of committees. The Committee on European Union Affairs has also proposed to extend today's session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer until 14 p.m. If you will allow us, we will come back to this decision if this is the pace of the sitting. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. I would now like to ask Kalle Palling, Chairman of the European Union Affairs Committee, to present the Chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good guests! Good people of Estonia! Today, on the initiative of the Committee on European Union Affairs, the Riigikogu discusses the European Union and Estonia's migration policy as an important national issue. As a country, we must be able to contribute in solidarity with the rest of Europe to resolving this crisis on a cross-party basis. These should be value-based positions, not party-political scores. President Lennart Meri has said that the European phenomenon, his philosophical, intellectual and economic values, is based on the fact that, side by side with the great nations, even the smallest peoples have managed to preserve their identity. Europe's greatest wealth lies in its different identities, which do not level but deepen. Estonia cannot stay and remain unaffected by conflicts in the Middle East and Africa. Our security, too, depends on how the European Union copes with the situation that has arisen. What is happening behind Europe's southern border directly affects us in Estonia, as it affects the people behind our eastern border and in Ukraine in Western Europe. The debate on the refugee crisis is precisely a matter of security, migration policy and European unity. I believe that it is our European duty to refrain from interpreting or highlighting differences based on origin, colour or religious preferences as a threat. Our European responsibility as a society is to be friendly, open and, above all, helpful. David Hinrikus, co-founder of TransferWise, one of Estonia's most successful start-ups, recently wrote that the environment for innovation must be ready to tolerate differences. According to him, all of TransferWise's employees of several nationalities consider Estonians to be warm, friendly and open people. They enjoy working and living in Estonia. I'd really like to keep it that way. What are Estonia's initiatives in shaping the European Union's refugee policy? Estonia's view is that all the countries of the European Union must participate in the resolution of the crisis in a proportionate manner, according to their capabilities. The capacity of Estonia to coordinate migration policy and what needs to be done to increase it if necessary will be discussed further by the following rapporteurs. In parallel with helping refugees and resolving very practical issues, however, we need to address the root causes of the crisis, so that people no longer have to flee their homes because of the war in Syria, which lasts for five years, and those who have already left their home country should not make a dangerous journey to Europe. This is why Estonia has consistently stressed the need to continue its efforts to ensure peace in Syria, Libya and other areas of crisis, as well as to support the stabilisation of Iraq and the international coalition to fight ISIL in Iraq and Syria. Of course, we must pay attention to the fight against criminal organisations involved in trafficking in human beings and smuggling. Ten years ago, 38 million people worldwide were forced to leave their home country because of conflicts and persecution, now reaching 60 million. More than half a million people have arrived in Europe since January this year. Thousands of people, including children, young and old, have died on this dangerous journey. Given the gravity of the situation, I believe that for the European Union with a population of 500 million people a day, it is a large but not impossible number. The sharp increase in the number of Syrian refugees is due to the fact that many have lost hope that the political situation will change and the war will end. The crisis that has been going on for years does not seem to end and people's living conditions continue to deteriorate. Putin's actions in Syria do not add hope either. 70% of Syrian refugees living in Lebanon live in extreme poverty and 86% of refugees living in Jordan live below the poverty rate. Escapes cannot work legally, and more than half of the children of war refugees are not educated. It is already believed that we are losing one of the Syrians of humanity. A delegation from the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union Affairs Committee visited the Zamar refugee camp in Jordan in early September. We saw with our own eyes the conditions under which people live there. Unfortunately, most refugees live outside improvised homes, where living conditions are different from those of the camps. It is the lack of basic living conditions, hunger, a ban on working and legally earning a living, and all this is accompanied by hopelessness that drives people on a dangerous journey across the Mediterranean to Europe. It is vital to focus on helping the main African countries under refugee pressure. Estonia was one of the first countries to be proposed by the Head of Government, which was confirmed at the last European Council. The EUR 1 billion that has been decided is welcome, but obviously we all realise in this Chamber that this will not be enough for long, given the unprecedented migratory pressure. I call for support for the close Syrian countries that have received millions of refugees at the cost of the deterioration of their country's socio-economic and security. Moreover, in the longer term, there is a need not only for humanitarian aid but also to promote the economy and create jobs there. In particular, Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey, where the largest number of Syrian refugees have gone, need assistance. I believe that, alongside the large and ambitious European aid and investment programmes, this could be achieved by Europe. This would be a message of hope for the refugees who are looking forward to a better future in these countries and, on the other hand, it is right that, alongside the Eastern Partnership, the countries of the Southern Neighbourhood should also be dealt with and trade agreements with these countries accelerated. Since the civil war in Syria in 2011, the European Union, together with the Member States, has mobilised EUR 3.9 billion in humanitarian and development assistance to the most affected people in Syria and in the neighbouring countries of Syria. Estonia has supported the humanitarian relief of Syrian refugees in Jordan, Lebanon, Iraq and Turkey with EUR 1.8 million, also through bilateral development cooperation activities, but mainly through UN humanitarian aid agencies. The volunteers of the non-profit association Mondo have taught English at Jordanian camps and continue IT training for young people. I take this opportunity to thank civil society organisations dealing with refugee issues for their contributions so far, and I call on the government to involve them even more in the debate. Estonia also considers it necessary to strengthen the borders of the European Union. Checks at the external borders must be stepped up and strengthened. The work of Frontex Rapid Response Teams needs to be stepped up. Estonia is the fifth largest per capita contributor to Frontex missions. Thanks to the good work of these units, thousands of lives have been saved. Even if we tried to imagine the possibility of building a wall in the middle of the Mediterranean, it would not solve the crisis in Syria and the fact that people are still forced to leave their homes. As Rein Raud has said, 'War refugees do not disappear when they close their eyes. ' Europeans, a great Estonian friend and Finnish finance minister Alexander Stubb said very well in his speech on the 25th anniversary of German reunification that it is right to remember today what the European Union was for. To tear down the walls, not to build more. As a result, Estonia has also supported the analysis of the creation of a single European border guard, not the restoration of internal borders. Perhaps this is a step in the right direction for our people to feel equally secure throughout Europe, and one of Europe's basic values of free movement of people would not mean that our people would again be able to pass on to Latvia's Positivus Festival or to ski in Finland's Himos. Good Riigikogu! The vast majority of public arguments represent refugees as a mere source of expense, as well as a threat to security and as a threat to the preservation of our people. We are much less reminded here of our low birth rate, labour shortages and ageing populations. Estonia's migration balance has been negative since 1990. The only thing that's positive about it is that those people who have left have not had to escape the horrors of war. Even with zero migration, the number of workers under 45 in Europe would fall by almost 10% over the next ten years. In Estonia, we would have about 60,000 fewer employees, and this would be the case with non-existent emigration. The ageing population is hampering productivity growth in the economic sector. Fortunately, robots can't do all the jobs for people. Although mass immigration has put a number of European Union countries under great social pressure and encouraged conflicts in society, economists and politicians agree on one thing: Europe needs immigrants to ensure the sustainability of the economy. I agree here with Jüri Manor, who said that a bold immigration policy would be an alternative to all strategies of shrinking and fading. The National Audit Office has also recommended in its recent report on the choices of migration policy that the state has two non-exclusion options to address the growing labour shortages: to encourage more immigration and/or to carry out reforms that increase employment. Let us, then, take advantage of the opportunity before us to successfully integrate refugees. Good friends! The debate on the refugee crisis is a value-based issue, in addition to many of the very practical steps that have been taken in the previous and subsequent speakers' presentations. The question is whether we are helping those who need help or not. Jean-Claude Juncker has pointed out that many Europeans themselves have been in the role of refugees, whether by fleeing dictatorship, war or religious hatred. In autumn 1944 around 80,000 people left Estonia before the second Soviet power was established. Then Sweden, the United States, Canada, Australia and other countries helped us. This war scattered our families around the world, and happy were those whose loved ones found a new home on friendly soil. It is appropriate to ask whether we have the moral right to turn our backs on those who leave their homeland for similar reasons as our grandfathers and grandmothers. After all, it is the government in Syria today that is attacking its country's citizens with a chemical weapon, and it was not all strangers who caused the horrors and suffering of our ancestors. First Vice-President of the European Commission, Frans Timmermans, has pointed out that diversity has been seen as a threat in some parts of Europe. Diversity poses many challenges, but it is mankind's destiny. There will be no nation in the future, not even in the remotest places that will not be exposed to diversity. This is what humanity is moving towards, and those politicians who are trying to paint their constituents a picture of a society that is made up of people with a similar cultural background, are trying to represent a future based on a past that has never existed. Europe is diverse and will remain diverse, just like all other parts of the world. The only question is how to deal with this diversity. Timmermans responds this way: ensuring that our values depend on how we try to cope with diversity and not abandoning values in order to refuse diversity. There is much to be said about intercultural cooperation. I would remind colleagues that it is most likely that Abu Abdullah Muhammad al-Idris, an Arab cartographer, mentioned our capital city of Tallinn for the first time in its records. It was 1154. Today, TransferWise's largest office is located in Tallinn, where people of 30 nationalities are working, resting and playing together. I will conclude once again with the words of Lennart Meri, who has said that it is not the quantity of information that determines when making the right decisions, but the quality of it. Parliamentaryism teaches people to agree, teaches politicians to listen and understand each other, teaches them to seek compromises. Listen, let us understand and find compromises today in order to be able to agree on this important national issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U10	Thank you, good waitress. You have a lot of questions, too. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress and good colleague. This speech, of course, was full of good wishes and best intentions, but I must say that today we live in a Europe where 25 000 people are systematically protesting on the streets in Germany. In northern Finland, self-defence groups have been set up in cities, and young men are guarding the streets so that the arrivals of immigrants do not harm ordinary Finnish citizens. These examples can be found on a number of pages. About five minutes ago, the line said that Europe must resolve the problem together, but Slovakia and Hungary, for example, are certainly not subject to this pressure. I'd say that such a thing has completely failed by now, that idea just doesn't work. What's the next, second step if this plan doesn't work?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U12	First, however, we must try to find consensus in Europe in order to resolve this issue together. This is certainly not the only challenge for Europe to find a consensus on a matter of some kind. Yes, some countries have gone down the road to building walls, installing fences. I think it's the wrong way. I still call for tolerance in the same way here, but on the other hand I also referred to tackling the root causes of the crisis, i.e. contributing to the development of the countries close to Syria. Providing living conditions for refugees living there is one of the key issues. Half a million war refugees have reached Europe, including economic refugees. Jordan, Turkey and Lebanon, on the other hand, have a population of 1.5 to 2 million Syrian war refugees. These orders of magnitude that we are talking about are fundamentally different and therefore everything must be dealt with in a complex way and consensus found.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U13	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Just like the other countries of the European Union, Estonia is facing the problem of not having enough labour. And the lack of hands in the term deepens, not eases. Now we are talking about the relocation of refugees. How much can we say about making sure that the people who come to us can be implemented on the Estonian labour market? A government action programme has just been approved. How much does our country's action plan take into account or envisage activities to implement refugees in our labour market?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U15	First of all, this action plan is about how to integrate these people into society, including work. I believe that this is a very good plan, and Estonia will certainly be able to meet this challenge. As far as human selection is concerned, however, I would remind you that these are human beings, not animal fairs. If there's a war, all people who sense danger will escape the war. And we should try to maximise our efforts to help these people here in Europe, either temporarily, in the short term or for a little while, to take advantage of the opportunity to live a new life.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U16	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U17	Thank you. Honourable waitress! It is very good that we are discussing this issue in this Chamber. Yesterday, we discussed the same issue with Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas in an inquiry procedure. In fact, however, we did not get a lot of answers. One of those questions was the one who was a refugee in war. Is a war refugee a person who saves his family from a war zone and lands somewhere next door in Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan and so on? Or is a war refugee also a person who is unhappy with the situation in a neighbouring country and goes from there to Germany, France, Italy, Scandinavia? Do you think he'll turn into an economic refugee? And, of course, there are a few questions about human trafficking. How does Europe try to prevent this and how can we resist the infiltration of ISIS terrorists into Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U18	A lot of questions! All Member States are fighting terrorism, human trafficking, smuggling. We understand, of course, that it is the Mediterranean countries that have particular pressure and responsibility to fight it. The number of problems they have to deal with is huge, and their responsibility is huge, but we can also contribute to the various operations. As I mentioned, Estonia is, if you take per capita, the fifth largest contributor to the Frontex missions of the European Border Guard Agency. So not only have many human lives been saved but also illegal activities been hindered. As for when someone is a war refugee and when he becomes an economic refugee, that is a very difficult question. Is there a person who escapes from an area where there is no war yet, but there is reason to believe that, for example, for religious reasons, a bomb attack or another attack, such as a chemical weapon, is a war refugee or an economic refugee? And when he has reached Europe, he needs social help at some point, but as what? I think that, specifically for the people of Syria, it is very difficult to draw this line. It's very difficult to control and identify everything. But how we plan to distinguish between people will certainly be better and more detailed to answer next, even though I admit that this distinction is certainly quite a challenge.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U19	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have two simple specific questions and I think that it is just as easy and concrete to answer. There are indeed some 500,000 refugees in Europe today, but those who come from Syria account for 30% of this figure, the rest being from Iraq, Afghanistan and other countries. In Europe today, it is said that a refugee, or a fugitive from war, is a former Syrian resident. First, please tell me if our definition is different from that. Who do we consider to be refugees, only former Syrian citizens or others? The second issue is that there is talk in Europe about the need to expel 400000 people by the end of the year. If we have to, who's gonna pay for it? Expulsion is a very expensive procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U21	As far as war refugees and their origins are concerned, we know that people in this region have been persecuted for various reasons for many years. Syria is simply an example of a country with a very multifaceted conflict. On the other hand, we see the civil war in Syria, which has been going on for the fifth year, and on the other hand we see the interference of the Russian Federation in this conflict. The pretext is to fight against the Islamic State, but what Russia is doing there is to fight against something other than the Islamic State.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U22	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U23	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, As your report shows, this whole problem is, of course, very complex and multifaceted. Today in this Chamber, on the basis of our presentations, we are mainly focusing on such home affairs. I think that if we do not concentrate our forces at European Union level precisely to address the root causes of the crisis, this problem could remain with us for a very long time. You mentioned in your speech that the situation in Syria must be stabilised. Of course, Syria is not the only conflict that people are fleeing from, but when we talk about Syria, what should be the European Union's action to stabilise the situation there?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U24	Good Marko, as you've probably noticed following my speech, I've focused on this activity quite a bit. I spoke about the external dimension of resolving this crisis, for the reason that we have a Minister for the Interior and a Minister for Social Protection who is responsible for resolving the problem on the ground. I didn't want to tell them. You asked about a possible solution to the conflict in Syria. I think that the European Union alone here will certainly not be able to find this solution. Here, however, the international community, the Western countries, should jointly contribute to stabilising the situation. As you know very well, the activities of the Russian Federation in Syria over the last few weeks will certainly blur the situation and make it difficult to find a balance. I will bring in another important dimension, which we must certainly take into account here in Europe. We are well aware that our eastern neighbour's strategy includes the desire to create new frozen conflicts and to sow confusion. In the shadow of this, new things can be done and perhaps distracted from some significant points of pain. In this regard, it is particularly important that in all Estonia's statements, at all international meetings, it emphasises that, although the Russian Federation operates in Syria, that, although Europe is at the heart of a major refugee crisis, European leaders must not forget what is happening in Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. But yes, it is a very complex issue and there are no simple solutions here, especially given the wider political situation, including in the United States, where there is a threshold for presidential elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U25	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U26	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, You spoke at first at length about the situation of the Syrian state and the poverty of the Syrian people. But at the same time, you forgot to tell us how many percent of Estonian people live below the poverty line. For me, the key to the whole question is how much the Estonian state is capable of receiving refugees, how rich we are, so that our people should not suffer. But I'm going to ask you more specifically. At first, the number of refugees was agreed at 150-170, then the figure of 550 was quickly reached. IRL leader Margus Tsahkna recently said that the IRL is willing to receive a maximum of 400 refugees per year. What is the position of the Reform Party: is this 400 the right number or do you think that more could be adopted?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U27	First of all, the Estonian people certainly do not have to suffer. It is entirely arbitrary to claim that the people of Estonia could suffer if Estonia deals with migration issues and is solidarity with other countries of the European Union for this great challenge. That's one. Secondly, as I said in the introduction to my speech, I think it should be very important to look for a common position across political parties when dealing with this issue, not to try to get points from different parties. Therefore, I do not think it right that the parties set an upper limit for the Estonian state. I previously explained nicely that 500,000 refugees have reached Europe, some estimates of 600,000, and thousands have also died on the road. But let us take, for example, the same Syria, which half of the population of 22 million has had to be relocated within their own country and more than 6 million people have been forced to leave their homeland. In these same countries of North Africa, millions of war refugees live below all basic living conditions. If we jointly contribute to helping these countries as the European Union, then migratory pressure on Europe will also decrease, and we do not have to deal here with taking points and setting limits. I think that, if there really is a crisis of this magnitude, it is not appropriate to say that we are going to have a border somewhere. You have to help as much as you have to. And how exactly what steps will be taken is a good opportunity for you to hear and ask the two next ministers to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U28	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U29	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Your inspiring speech would have been okay if the topic of refugees or the word'refugees' had been replaced by 'low-insured Estonian families','sundant tenants','school underfunding', 'absolutely intolerable situation of kindergarten teachers'. If your speech had included it, everything would have been fine. For 15 years, I have been active in integrating the Russian-speaking population into the Estonian-speaking society and analysing why it has failed, why it has practically not happened. How can you say that this integration, without any experience and without analysis, that should take place in Estonia with refugees will succeed? And how do you look in the eye at 80000 to 100000 Estonian economists in Finland, for example? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] There's your key.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U30	When making the right decisions, it is not the quantity of information that determines the quality of the information. So has Lennart Meri. Your arbitrary connections and the figures of the Finnish economic refugees are clearly exaggerated. Estonia will certainly be able to meet this challenge.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U31	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U32	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to be more accurate in numbers. You say there are 500,000 refugees, Germany claims they already have 800,000 refugees. Somehow these figures don't add up. You are saying that we have a consensus among economic people and politicians that immigration is needed. That's not true either. There is no consensus in this Chamber alone and there is no consensus in any other country either. But I will return to your report. It was, of course, pregnant with excellent rhetoric. Like you, I can't imagine how to build a wall in the Mediterranean, but I know perfectly well that it was only a few years ago that ships in the Mediterranean could be dealt with in human trafficking, smuggling and the transport of illegal immigrants. It doesn't need much imagination, and it's not that complicated. You have repeatedly stressed that this is a matter of values. Indeed, it is a matter of values. As far as tolerance is concerned, you see, in our cultural space there is a well-known saying that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Do you understand or do you agree that if you try to save the world and all the suffering people in the world and bring them to Estonia...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U33	I'm sorry, good questioner, your time! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U34	The question remained, but indeed, Estonia is not able to save all the people of the world. That's for sure. When I named half a million refugees of magnitude, I meant those who have come across the Mediterranean. When Germany talks about 800000 refugees, it is likely to be based on a different estimate of where and how many years refugees have come from. That's probably why there are different statistics. I meant the people who have come across the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U35	Good waitress, thank you! Dear colleagues, since our agenda is very tight, we must adhere to our rules of procedure and our rules of procedure. I'm sorry, but let me remind you that the time to ask a question is up to 1 minute. I would like to ask Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of the Interior, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U36	Thank you. Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'm sorry about my little hoarse voice, but that's what it is today. Dear Members of the Riigikogu and Excellencys who have come here today to listen! Ladies and gentlemen on the other side of the light blue screen! As an introduction, I would like to thank the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs for organising the debate in this Chamber, which gives the opportunity to address with you, good members of the Riigikogu, important issues whose solution is a major challenge not only for Estonia but for the whole of the European Union. Let it be said that Estonia has been and will continue to be a country with a conservative migration policy. Conservative migration policy, however, does not mean that it is not possible for foreigners to come and settle in Estonia. For example, in order to settle in Estonia last year alone, over 3,000 foreigners from non-EU countries received a first residence permit. About 1,200 of them came to work in Estonia, about 800 arrived to study and about 1,300 people in the framework of family migration. The countries were represented by letters: Russia, Ukraine, the United States of America, India, Georgia, Belarus, Turkey, China, Nigeria and Israel. In addition to the residents of the abovementioned countries, 3044 citizens of the European Union registered Estonia as their new residence. Visas for various reasons were issued to some 170000 people to visit Estonia. However, I am now coming directly to the topic of migration. It has to be admitted that the number of people seeking international protection from Estonia has increased considerably in recent years. In 2011, 30 people applied for protection from Estonia, 147 in the last year and 187 in the nine months of this year. Despite the steady increase in the number of applications, we have managed to ensure that all applications are processed quickly enough, as well as the return of those wishing to take advantage of the European Union's asylum system. Unfortunately, in addition to more applications for international protection, the overall trend of irregular migration has also been growing. In the last seven years, the number of illegal migration cases has increased as well as the number of illegal immigrants detected in Estonia. Cases of illegal migration were discovered in 164 last year, and 285 foreigners were detained, most of whom were citizens of Russia, Ukraine, Sudan, Syria, Vietnam and Egypt. In this context, it would be appropriate to ask what to do, however, to better prevent irregular migration. The answers also seem simple in themselves: to ensure the surveillance of external borders, to prevent illegal border crossings and to send back those who have no legal basis quickly. On a broader scale, cooperation with the UN is, of course, important. It is precisely in cooperation with the UN that the root causes of irregular migration must be tackled on a permanent basis and that one form of cross-border crime, trafficking and smuggling must be tackled jointly. It is also worth recalling that Estonia has always stressed the importance of the surveillance of the European Union and the Schengen external borders, and since 2010 we have also contributed to the surveillance of the external borders in other European Union countries. Estonia was among the first countries to respond to Greece's call for reinforcements to prevent illegal border crossings in 2010, and despite Estonia's small size, we have made a significant contribution. One week after receiving a request for assistance, there were 23 Estonian officials on the Greek-Turkey border. To summarise this year's action at international level, we have participated or participated in it in the following way: a speedboat with a crew of four members and one coordinating officer in Athens on the island of Samos in Greece in November and December; four migrant interviewers on the Italian islands between March and May and August and December; four service dogs and dog drivers on guarding the Hungarian-Serbia land border between March and May and October and November; one support officer on the island of Samos in Greece in March; one official at Sofia airport in Bulgaria in September and October; one official at the Frontex Observatory in Warsaw in August and September; one official at the Vienna airport in Austria in October and November. The possibilities for the coming year's contribution of the Police and Border Guard Board are currently being mapped out. But I can already say today that next year we will be ready to take part in the surveillance of the European Union's external borders again on a larger scale than in previous years. On the basis of the operational need in particular, we also mean that our participation means a certain added value to the Police and Border Guard Board and to Estonia as a whole. Let us try to direct our officials to work with which we ourselves have less experience. One example is the questioning of a large number of illegal arrivals. We also appreciate the possibility of participating in the operations of the European Asylum Support Office (EASO), which expects Member States' asylum experts to participate in the so-called hotspot activities in Italy and Greece over the next three years. We are certainly also contributing in the framework of EASO operations, and we are currently considering our possibilities of assisting Italy and Greece in processing applications for international protection for refugees. I also note here that, at the end of this year, the European Commission is likely to come up with proposals to improve border surveillance in the European Union. Whether their content is the creation of a common European border guard or something else, time will show. However, the aim is to ensure better surveillance of the European Union's external borders and an operational response in crisis situations. The following is a little of an opportunity to step up return policy. Since 2008, there is a directive of the Council of the European Union that obliges Member States to ensure that foreigners who do not have the right to remain in the European Union leave within the prescribed time limits. In practice, so far in the European Union, only about 40% of foreigners obliged to leave have been expelled on average. Estonia has been much more successful in fulfilling its obligation: the success rate of our expulsion has been at least twice as high in recent years. However, in the interests of the success of expulsion, cooperation with third countries is, of course, necessary. It should be noted here that the requirement for the readmission of nationals of their own country stems from international law. Unfortunately, the European Union countries lack effective cooperation on readmission issues with many third countries, such as Morocco, Algeria, Iran, Iraq and Afghanistan. The implementation of readmission agreements concluded by the European Union is also often problematic. For example, the requests made by Estonia at the beginning of January to withdraw two Russian citizens still await the reply of the Russian Federation. In my opinion, linking return policy to other areas of the European Union's foreign policy would help to improve its effectiveness. And, of course, cooperation with third countries must be developed on the principle of'more for more, less for less' or'more for more, less for less'. This means that the state's actions in the fight against illegal migration and trafficking must serve as a basis for giving it incentives, such as development cooperation and humanitarian aid grants, visa facilitation, etc. Given the Estonian consular network and its small size in the world, it is clearly in our interest to begin to recognise more widely the European Union's single expulsion travel document. Estonia also strongly supports the idea that the existing European Union information systems should be used more than before to identify a person and his/her nationality, the Schengen Information System SIS, the Visa Information System VIS and the European fingerprint information system Eurodac. One of the reasons why the expulsion of illegals often fails is the move of non-staying foreigners to other Member States. The European Commission has stressed that Member States need to increase the capacity to apprehend aliens who may flee. At this point, it is a pleasure to announce that we, too, have taken this action plan. Finally, good members of the Riigikogu, I will address the issue of resettlement and relocation. I am not going to rephrase the chronology of everything that has taken place in the European Union since spring, but I will remind you of some concrete decisions and agreements. On 20 July, 60000 people in need of international protection were agreed at European Union level to assist with their relocation and resettlement. Following a drastic change in the situation during the summer months, an additional 120,000 people were agreed on 22 September, but a clause was added that 66000 people in need of international protection would first be relocated from Italy and Greece and the remaining 54000 would be relocated over time depending on migratory pressures. Estonia was active in these decision-making processes and we also received a mandate in agreement with the Riigikogu. The main point here is that decisions on this will continue to have to be taken jointly by the countries. Our understanding was and is that decision-making is within the competence of the Member States and must be based on Article 78 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which says: 'If an emergency situation arises in one or more Member States due to a sudden influx of third-country nationals, the Council, on a proposal from the Commission, may adopt provisional measures to support the Member State (s) concerned. ' But at the end of the day, very briefly, about real action. I am very pleased that the government has reached agreement in principle on an action plan that has also been well reflected in the media. As we know, the primary procedural procedures in the hotspots are carried out by the Italian and Greek authorities in cooperation with the European Union agencies. Estonia also contributes to their work. Estonia, for its part, has compiled the profiles of the persons to be relocated to us and sent them together with the liaison officer of the Police and Border Guard Board to Italy and Greece. In particular, we have been guided by the fact that we want to help people who want to settle here and who have the abilities and motivation to adapt to Estonia. Estonia prefers to accept full families and people from vulnerable groups, i.e. single-parent families and unaccompanied minors or orphans. And, of course, most importantly: these people must not pose a threat to the security of the Estonian state. To resolve these practical issues, on 2 October, my Italian colleague and I also signed an agreement allowing our people, from the police, the defence police and the Ministry of Social Affairs, to go to Italy to carry out procedural procedures. But I stress once again that the decision whether a particular person comes to Estonia or not is made by Estonia. It is our wish that upon arrival in Estonia, the persons who have received protection will not be placed in a shelter centre, but they will go to the housing already found for them. Of course, the assumption is that housing has been found. I can give you confirmation here in the Riigikogu today that the Police and Border Guard Board has found a suitable liaison officer and that the training of the rest of the people will also take place. The exact timetable for the coming months will be specified in cooperation with our Italian colleagues. Once the processes have been negotiated with Italy, we will have the same job to do with Greece and the United Nations Commissioner for Refugees. In conclusion, I dare say that we are doing well on the task we have taken. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is up to all of us to make Estonia a new and safe home for people whose lives in their own country have become impossible. And we will do this at our own pace so that we can offer new homes and the necessary support to those in need to settle in Estonia. However, we expect everyone here in Estonia to have a calm mind and a tolerant attitude. Together, we can make sure that Estonia is a new and safe homeland for those who come here and that it integrates as quickly as possible, becoming the contributors to the development of the country that needs help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U37	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In particular, the issue of relocation has led to a debate on this issue. It seems to me that there is insufficient clarity in this discussion as to the extent to which Estonia has control over refugee policy, I mean the treatment of those who arrive at the Estonian border and who will be relocated in accordance with the decision of the Council of Ministers in September, which was a precedent in its own right. My question specifically concerns relocation, which Estonia does not seem to have sufficient control over. As Minister of the Interior, I'm sure you have some information about our near future. Do you have any information on the preparation of decisions concerning additional refugees to be relocated? When will these possible decisions be discussed in the Council of Ministers? Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U39	Today, I know there is no point or action at European Union level that suggests that we need to come back to this issue again. As I said in my speech, the decision of September to help an additional 120,000 people was defeated in two directions. In the first section, 66000 people will be relocated and 54000 people will remain on hold for relocation. So there is a so-called reserve to help Italy and Greece. Should exceptional pressure emerge from some countries, the Council can meet and discuss whether there is another country that should be assisted by Italy and Greece. In the meantime, there was a chance that Hungary would join these countries, but Hungary wanted to leave this list because there were no people left in Hungary.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U40	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U41	Thank you, Honourable Vice Speaker. Good minister! In September, at an extraordinary meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council, held just before the European Council, you represented Estonia. For this Council meeting, you received a mandate from the European Union Affairs Commission, where it was clearly stated that we prefer to assist each other on a voluntary basis. Unfortunately, there was a vote at this Council meeting. The fundamental principle of the European Union is solidarity and we should also be solidarity with our European partners, but we did not have it with four countries: Romania, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia, which did not agree with the plan proposed by the European Commission. However, by qualified majority, this scheme also became mandatory for them, which is why Slovakia is going to court. On the basis of what mandate did you vote in this vote for the compulsory implementation of the distribution key for all countries? Why didn't you prefer volunteering?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U42	I relied on this mandate, which had been given by both the government and ELAK. From Estonia's position, it is still a voluntary contribution. Estonia has voluntarily decided to participate in this scheme, and Estonia voluntarily participates in this scheme because of what our mandate has been throughout this debate, it is very common in terms of our size, in particular the importance of the economy and population in the European Union. Thus, Estonia's decision to participate in this scheme on a voluntary basis is fully in line with the mandate received.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U43	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U44	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of the Interior! The decision of 20 July and the decision of 22 September was marked by an increasing trend in the number of people to be reallocated...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U45	Good questioner, I'm sorry! Since the manager must ensure safety in the hall, I have a request that this large camera be taken off the balcony. If it crashes, an accident could happen. Please, I'll give the floor to the questioner again!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U46	My question is that on 20 July we decided to distribute 60,000 people in the European Union, and on 22 September there were 120,000 already. You have now confirmed that the next 22 September does not appear, but, looking at the dynamics of how many refugees have come, I am still asking as an analytically thinking person when this third division will come. Is this day December 22nd?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U47	Thank you for your question. Once again, as I have already said, this has not been the subject of discussion. When we talk about people being relocated, it is primarily those in need of international protection. Many people who have entered the European Union do not have the right to remain in the European Union because they do not have the right to international protection. When we look at how many applications for international protection have been made in Italy and Greece, the mandate or the challenge that European countries have collectively taken on seems to be quite sufficient to deal with the current situation of aid to both Italy and Greece.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U48	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U49	Thank you. The European Union has tripled Frontex's budget, has established a military mission called EUNAVFOR Med, which reached full capacity in the middle of the summer. Unfortunately, we see that they are not dealing with the protection of the European Union's external borders, as they should be tasked with, but, on the contrary, helping to smuggle people, bringing immigrants to Europe. Can you tell me how many ships have been inspected for a week now that the second phase of EUNAVFOR Medi has been going on? How many have been sent back, how many human smugglers have been arrested, networks have been exposed, money illegally earned has been seized and confiscated?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U50	Thank you. I do not have this information with me at the moment, it can be investigated by Europol. Europol shall compile this data. Looking at the information that the Director-General of Europol presented to us at the last meeting of the Council of Ministers, these figures were in this sense encouraging that, thanks to the additional contribution to both Europol and Frontex operations, an increasing number of criminals have been caught and, in the same way, the proceeds of crime have been confiscated. International cooperation has improved. I will also give an example of this better cooperation. In the exchange of additional information between Member States in another criminal procedure, a van in Britain with people smuggled into the country was identified. So the exchange of information has become more efficient, but if you ask for specific figures, today I do not have them to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U51	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U52	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Mr. Minister! You mentioned that, under the European Treaty, temporary measures may be introduced to help one Member State or another in the event of a crisis. I question the temporary nature of this quota or the temporary nature of the presence of these people in Estonia or any country. But my question is different. If we know that the Islamic State has announced that it will infiltrate its fighters among these immigrants, what are Estonia's procedures? Who's looking at people's backgrounds and where? With whom do you exchange information and what background study is carried out to prevent radicals from arriving in Estonia, radicals from being among the people who come to Estonia? As we know, at the climax of the Northern Ireland terror campaign, only about 100 people actively engaged in terrorist activities were also at the peak of Basque terrorism. If we are not talking about hundreds, but thousands of refugees, how do you guarantee that there will be no terrorists coming to Estonia? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U53	Believe me, in this process, these people have been checked and will be controlled more than any traditional migration. When we talk about relocation and the resettlement process, the people of our police and defence police have contributed not only to the work of the Italian and Greek authorities, but also to the work of the people of the United Nations Commissioner for Refugees. They have been fully involved in the inspection process in Italy and Greece. However, if we are talking about the possible arrival of criminals in Estonia or other countries, the daily cooperation between police authorities is, without saying, important in preventing it, because people who are on a legal basis in the European Union can move freely within the European Union. And these people are much more difficult to control than those who come here during resettlement or relocation. Once again, like I said, there's a lot of control. How exactly is this going to happen, I can't comment on that in this Chamber. All I can say is that, of course, the Defence Police Department uses all its direct contacts, as well as the contacts of its partners, to make people's background clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U54	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U55	Thanks to the waitress! Good minister! If a refugee is placed in a refugee camp and flees, he will not be an economic refugee, but, as I understand it, he will still be a war refugee. But please explain why war refugees are fleeing refugee camps. And then, let's say, there are no peaceful areas in the Islamic cultural space where they could go? If it isn't, can't we make refugee campuses better so people don't escape?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U56	With this last proposal, I agree with a hundred percent. I'm sure you could and should. This is the piece of work that the European Union should contribute more to, particularly outside the borders of the European Union. As far as I know, the Foreign Affairs Council spoke about this yesterday and the day before yesterday. Europe's contribution to Turkey, Jordan, Lebanon and other crises, with refugee camps in more peaceful regions, must be greater. They must be supported more. There is no question, and that is clearly stated. By setting up a billion-euro fund to help, the Heads of Government certainly made the right decision. But not only pure financial assistance, but also sending people there, there providing education and all kinds of humanitarian aid is extremely important. In that, I can only support you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U57	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U58	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. The whole debate on refugee issues sends the popular opinion that those who come here will remain in the care of the social system of our country for a long time. However, how do you think it is ensured that people here would like to quickly start managing themselves, doing something, working themselves up? This is how the people of Estonia who emigrated to Sweden or the United States or to other countries had to act.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U59	The strongest incentive is the desire of people themselves to cope better. The possibilities of Estonian social assistance are certainly not so great that people would only want to rely on the social assistance system. The desire of people to cope with themselves is certainly the best motivator. What we can offer for our part is support in the form of an adaptation programme, language learning and other educational opportunities, as well as unemployment fund services. We can reach people with a helping hand or an imaginary expression, and we can reach them with a fishing rod so that they themselves can fish. I believe that the people of the Estonian social and educational system and everyone else who has to take responsibility for the integration of these people can do this task well.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U60	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U61	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, you mentioned in your speech that about 40% of those who have arrived illegally can be expelled. What about the rest of them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U62	I also mentioned that in the case of Estonia, this figure has been permanently over 80% in recent years, and in some good years even 95% of those who are told to leave the country do so. In the European Union, expulsion is usually based on volunteering. People are obliged to leave the country, and they must leave the country. What about the other 60% of illegals? The main thing is that they do not fulfil this obligation and remain illegal in countries. If the law enforcement authorities succeed in catching them, they will be sent out of the country forced, but they will, on a voluntary basis, fulfil this obligation in the European Union at the present time, about 40% of illegals.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U63	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U64	Thank you very much. Many thanks for this fact- and definition-rich speech. Here's my question. One thing I didn't understand was illegal migration. Indeed, this is a major crisis with war refugees at the heart of it. Are war refugees, by definition, illegal immigrants, one of the components of illegal migration being fleeing from war? Are they at first illegal and then somehow so-called "legal"? I don't understand it. Why don't you explain to me that we can get a better picture of the current situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U65	All of this is governed by the Geneva Convention. In the Geneva Convention, it is regulated so that I use the English-language terms that the person is until then until the application for international protection has been filed, the Refugee, or refugee. Since he has applied for international protection, he is an asylum Seeker. If it is satisfied, it has already become a subject of international protection, i.e. it has acquired the right to stay legally in the country. Until then, of course, as long as a person has not been granted the right to stay legally, he or she will be present there on the basis of his or her status as having applied for international protection. It's a so-called interim period. However, if he does not receive international protection, he is an illegal person who must leave the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U66	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U67	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I'm the ground. The thing is that the state is not very supportive of us so that we can restore the sacred giants, fix them. But we can do it ourselves, we're gonna hug our trees where we think we're good and where we find our energy tree. But now there's gonna be a whole bunch of other believers. Where could they go to pray? Are you going to build them a mosque for public money, or are they going to build them themselves? Or where they worship, where they lay down their rug? For they will certainly pray at six o'clock in the morning, and in the evening at sunset they will pray again, and in the day they will pray in intermediate prayer. How do you see this coming? As Minister of the Interior, you should have discussed this with someone.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U68	Today, the Muslim community exists in Estonia, just as there is a Lutheran community, just as there is an Orthodox community. They all fit in this land of Mary. We jointly celebrated the 800th anniversary of Mary's land. Regardless of religion, Estonia is a place for all people to live. It accommodates the Tara believers, the Lutherans, the Orthodox as well as the Muslims that are already here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U69	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In short, for Estonia, is it the refugee who is fleeing the war from Syria, or is it an arbitrary refugee from the Middle East or North Africa? That's one. Secondly, if there is a need to send someone out, I am talking specifically about this new wave of new refugees, whether there are any agreements at European level, whether the expulsion of this, which is a very expensive process, will pay for Estonia or whether the money has been allocated at European level?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U71	The answer to the first question is very simple. The people currently covered by the relocation and resettlement scheme are, in particular, Syrian and Eritrean nationals. As far as all other refugees arriving in Europe are concerned, they are subject to general regulation. In Estonia too, when a person has crossed the Piusa River, it does not matter whether he is Vietnamese or Sudann, we treat him exactly the same way. Where a cross-border application for international protection is made, they shall be subject to the same mechanism. There is a clear regulation on the return of people in Estonia, according to which return should be paid by the returnee himself. But if he doesn't have any money, the Estonian state will pay because if he doesn't have the right to be in Estonia, then it is in our interest that he still leaves.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U72	Minister, thank you for your speech and your answers. Allow the Riigikogu to wish the Estonian volleyball team a lot of strength for the European Championship finals for tonight's game! Now I would like to ask the Minister of Social Affairs Margus Tsahkna to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U73	Dear Vice-Chairman, Good ambassadors! Honourable Excellencys! President Lennart Meri was a foresighted statesman and his statements have already been heard in this Chamber today. This quote, with which I want to begin my presentation, describes quite well the situation in our society today, and therefore I will not miss the opportunity and quote the words of President Lennart Meri when he gave the speech in this very chair in 2001: 'We have among us those who would like to be Europeans without being Estonians. And there are unfortunately also those who would like to be Estonians without being Europeans. The first will curse us into an unseen future; and others will curse us into circumstances that cannot have a future. ' Europe has been hit by the biggest wave of refugees since World War II. This will not leave Estonia unscathed either, as we are part of Europe. In this confusion, we must remember that we have agreed on our constitution: our aim is to ensure the preservation of Estonian language and culture throughout the ages. The refugee crisis has tested both the unity of the countries of the European Union and the unity of society as a whole. Over the last few months, I have met Estonian people at dozens of national meetings to discuss how we will come through this challenge together. Do we have the confidence to overcome the shock and restore the unwavering faith and unwavering will that we showed as a nation in restoring independence? The Estonian people have coped with more difficult times when we have been ruled by foreign forces. We remember the time when hundreds of thousands of people were brought into Estonia without asking for our opinion, who did not speak our language and did not observe our customs. These marks are still in our society today, but deeper marks are in our minds. I therefore fully understand why our people are not prepared to meet the wave of immigration with open arms. The people's cautious reaction is not anger, it's a self-preservation instinct. The formula for everything is to start judging who is the rightest European and who is the largest Estonian who loves more refugees and who curses them more. That's not the solution. The solution is that we, as a small nation, can survive this time of great confusion so that we preserve our dignity and, above all, the unity of the people. There is a lack of unity today both in Europe and in Estonia. Unity, however, does not mean that we must accept everything we are told blindly and suppress our opinion. Solidarity cannot be forced, it must be free will. Today, too, we are sitting at the table in Europe where decisions are made, and we need to be clear not only about solidarity but about what we really mean. But let us go back a little bit in European history. Following the economic crisis that struck the world in 2008 and 2009, many said that the European Union would not come out of this whole and that the single currency euro could be over. It didn't happen. In the European Union, as well as in Estonia, we made tough decisions with a clear mind and came out of the situation. Yes, it took time and meant a very painful period for some countries, but the European Union's economy has now stabilised. Today we face a new common problem, and the people of Estonia want to hear about things the way they are, without embellishment. This is the basis for earning the trust of the people. And we must have the courage to say what we are thinking, both in Estonia and in the European Union. Nearly 12 million people have left their homes for the terror of the Islamic state and al-Assad, with no hope of returning home in the near future. However, in addition to the war refugees, a large number of economic refugees have moved, looking for a better life in Europe. The Schengen external borders do not hold, human trafficking is uncontrolled, the Juncker and Merkel rhetoric in the refugee crisis has been slightly controversial. This has given rise to expectation and hope that Europe will be able to receive all refugees. The result is something they couldn't expect. In addition to Greece and Italy, other European countries are also full of immigrants. European countries are putting in place border controls, which are very far from the idea of a united Europe that we have stood for. We must also honestly recognise that the European Commission's plan to implement the intra-European redistribution mechanism for refugees is not a solution to the problem of Syrian refugees. This is not the solution to the 12 million people who have fled their homes from the war. These people are helped by the Western world's real intervention to achieve stability and by real, large-scale assistance in refugee camps in the region. The relocation of refugees is an intra-European solidarity act that alleviates the migration burden of some countries. That is the way to view it and talk about it honestly. Over the last few months, many people in Estonia have dealt with the fact that we too are ready to accept refugees. It is based on the clear principle that the people who arrive here are motivated to adapt, learn the Estonian language, get to work and respect our culture and customs. It is in our interests, and above all in the interests of the people who come here, because Estonia is a country where the secret language is spoken, which is Estonian. A million people in the world speak this language, and it can do well here if they know how to do it. Estonia has chosen the way that we will not create large refugee camps, but we will welcome these people to our communities when we are ready. Our experts check people's backgrounds in Italy and Greece, the agreement with Italy has been signed. We want to accept those in need, who are real war refugees. We want to accept full families. All this action plan is based on studying the Estonian language, going to work and providing education in Estonian for children. Yeah, this is all a new situation for us. I'm sure there will be problems, but we need to be ready to solve them by learning how to do it. Estonia must also have a broader action plan on migration policy. We need a common map of the road, which helps to maintain the true unity of Europe and, at the same time, to stand up for Estonia's interests. I will present you with 12 open proposals to shape a common policy and move forward together in this situation. Firstly, Estonia must continue its conservative immigration, language and citizenship policies. Conservative migration policy means that we encourage people who are ready and able to contribute to the development of Estonia and who help to grow our economy. First and foremost, we encourage the arrival of a skilled labour force in Estonia, which is the most deprived of our labour market and which Estonian entrepreneurs need. On the other hand, it is necessary to prevent the entry of people who want to come here with bad intentions and who would be a threat to the security or social functioning of the state. I would remind you that for years there has been an immigration limit in Estonia, which is a reasonable lever for conscious management of migration policy. Secondly, it is vital for the European Union and Estonia to implement all forces to mitigate the root causes of the migration crisis, particularly in Syria. Thirdly, the European Union must immediately introduce effective control of the Schengen external borders, contribute to helping refugees in refugee camps in crisis zones and send out illegally arrived economic migrants from Europe. Fourthly, according to the Treaty on European Union, domestic policy falls within the competence of each Member State. The right of the Member States to decide their own immigration policies must be maintained, bearing in mind both the sovereignty of the Member States and their solidarity with each other. The European Commission has neither the competence nor the right to automatically impose on Member States quotas for the distribution of immigrants. Fifthly, the migration crisis of unprecedented proportions in recent history requires a decisive contribution from the European Union to the elimination of its causes. The changed situation requires the European Union to review the financial perspective for the years 2013 to 2020; the possibility of channelling more resources to mitigate the effects of the refugee crisis must be created. We consider it necessary for the European Commission to come up with an initiative in this regard. Sixthly, in addition to the immigration quota already foreseen, Estonia must establish a threshold for voluntary reception of refugees. In setting the limit, Estonia's ability to cope with displaced and relocated refugees is an important condition. This gives us a firm knowledge of where our capacity is in the process of redistribution of refugees. This must be our joint decision, which must be made without any populism or politics of the day. Seventhly, Estonia must establish a list of safe countries and regions whose citizens do not need protection and are not granted asylum. A similar regulation is urgently needed at EU level, and the European Commission has also proposed it. Eighthly, Estonia must ensure real border control capabilities at the external borders of the European Union, and Estonia must also be prepared to carry out temporary border controls at the internal borders of the European Union if necessary. I really hope there's no need for that. The ninth, persons who have received international protection from Estonia must undergo an adaptation programme. They must acquire the Estonian language within two years at the level that can be achieved in Estonia. By 10th, persons who have received legal protection will receive an annual residence permit. The process of extending the residence permit takes into account the results of participation in language learning and adaptation programmes, as well as the way refugees have respected our legal order. By the eleventh, Estonia must introduce legislative regulation in good time to ensure that the customs and security rules of our cultural space are respected. I am thinking here of the ban on wearing facial coverings in public places, as well as the circumcision of women and forced marriages. It all needs to be discussed. By the twelfth, persons enjoying legal protection shall be returned to their place of residence after the stability of their home country has arrived. These are twelve open proposals to continue this debate. We must hold this debate on the basis of common sense and healthy understanding. I hope that we will be able to contribute to tackling the wave of refugees in Europe, but the most important thing is that we are united so that we can help people who really need help. And in doing all this, we must remain human, trust each other and remember that we must care about Estonia and Europe as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U74	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions too. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U75	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Thank you, Minister. I must say that these 12 points were the first substantive and constructive talk I have heard in this Chamber from a representative of the government on this whole immigration issue. Most of them could be signed. I have serious doubts about how many of these points are actually enforceable in the European Union, because today there is no more volunteering. The Visegrád countries are forced to have the same key that Estonia has so-called voluntarily signed, and we can no longer talk about volunteering. But I'd like to come to our home affairs. As we know, the Ministry of Social Affairs is the Ministry responsible mainly for the placement and integration of the people who arrived here. Can you tell us how many municipalities are willing to receive people? And what is the financial solution of the undertaking: how much will the municipalities pay themselves and how much will the government pay? And what is that amount for one person at a certain time? Can you give us an update?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U76	The negotiations with the municipalities are ongoing. It is not a question of whether the municipalities want or do not want to receive the people coming to us. The question is how we can provide people who come to Estonia with such a living environment that they can integrate into our society. We have come from the fact that these people must first have a support person, a support family, who will help them adapt to the way life is going in Estonia. Secondly, they must have an elementary dwelling. Thirdly, it must be possible to learn the Estonian language near housing and, ideally, there is also a job in the area. In addition to saying 'yes' to the municipalities whose number is increasing, we also have a number of entrepreneurs who have come up with different job opportunities. It is very important that we all understand here that it is in the interests of us as a small society that people who come here should be motivated to learn the Estonian language. Then we give them the opportunity to go to work and, most importantly, we give their children the opportunity to get an education. In Estonia, education is the best available in Estonian. On the basis of these criteria, I say that we are ready to receive people who come here under the relocation and resettlement programme at the end of this year. But I also say that this whole situation is new to us. We'll learn as we go along when we're experiencing real problems. We have built up our system flexibly to be able to react. With every person coming here, the European Commission is bringing together €6,000 10,000 precisely for adaptation-friendly activities. This is the money we use to cover the cost of receiving these people. Some of this money goes to municipalities, some to more direct recipients. For example, the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church is ready to help with the accommodation of about 20 families and to support them in other ways. So we have designed such a flexible and sensible, tailor-made admission system. Which is very important to stress: we are a country that has chosen to take refugees step by step. We accept here the refugees we are ready to receive. We do not arrive here at the same time, but our preference is families, especially those from the Syrian warfields. And these people are welcome family by family when we are ready to receive them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U77	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U78	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Yes, as a scheme on paper, it is all very beautiful, but I have a very serious suspicion that we are confined to refugees from Syria, including Christians from Syria. As far as I am aware, our Minister for the Interior has signed an agreement in Italy that we will go and retrieve people from Lampedusa, who have gathered there, and these are not a major item from Syria, but from Africa, including Equatorial Africa. These are different people. But the question is purely practical. How does Estonia, where there are two people who speak Arabic properly, think about learning languages? How does the Estonian school system, where catering has been carried out by tender, plan to manage the supply of Islamic halal food?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U79	We can't change our system completely. I think that the specific issues that you have raised are not the primary problems that we have to resolve in the reception of these families. I am not very concerned about language learning for children and young people because children and young people are able to learn language quickly, especially if they are in the language environment. Rather, we need to critically review the methodologies that we have to make clear to adults the Estonian language at least at this level so that they can do it here. And this level is going to be A2 to B1. I personally support the level of B1, which should be achieved in at least two years. All these other problems are minor and they will probably be solved, precisely as a result of the flexible administration of our small society. This is not the main issue that we should be dealing with today. As far as young people and children are concerned, I consider it most important that they do not become objects of bullying at school. This has a huge role to play in society as a whole and requires negotiation of all relevant issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U80	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U81	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You repeatedly stressed that we must be very humane against migrants. Here's my question. As a minister, you must be as human as you are against the Estonians. If Estonian refugees who have fled here in search of work or otherwise because of their difficult lives come back, will they also benefit from the subsidies you are currently offering to Africans? If an Estonian person returns home, will he be given a supporter to help him adjust? You're the Minister for Social Protection, you're giving a support person to the outcasts of life who are lurking around the garbage cans, and to families who are unable to pay electricity bills and who are shutting off electricity? As a minister, have you done anything in recent months to give housing to people who have no place to live? Have you done anything to give work to those who have not received it? Why do we treat people unequally? You should be humane to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U82	Good questioner! I assure you, I am also humane to you. I'm serious! Yes, we are working to ensure that everyone's life in Estonia is better. We have also done a great deal to ensure that the people of Estonia, who are struggling, can cope. Here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu there will be several draft laws on this subject to be read this autumn. But that's not what this is about today. I assure you, there will be no special treatment. But we must also approach this issue from the perspective of our own small society. It is in our own interests that the people who come here become integrated into Estonian society. These people don't get any special benefits, we don't create any kind of special support system for them, like you're trying to put flies in people's heads here. Those people who come here will live here on the basis of a residence permit. My proposal is to grant them an annual residence permit. Then, in extending it, we can check how man has coped and how he has followed our rules. These people belong to our social system, like all the others in need. It's in all our interests that they get on their feet, get a job. The work to do in Estonia is. Believe me, there's a lot of work, rather the question is whether we have workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U83	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I should congratulate the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union on the declaration adopted at the council meeting, according to which the IRL proposes that the maximum reception limit for refugees should be 400 persons per year. This is truly commendable and I am pleased to see some conservative and sober thinking in the coalition. In the same way, your proposal to set a residence permit deadline of one year by two hands is very welcome. But you are the chairman of the coalition party and one of the ministers. When will these proposals be put on the government table at Stenbock's house, and what happens if the other two partners do not approve of them? How far are you willing to go to stand up for your own views and perhaps for our country and nation's interests?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U85	The point of my speech was that we should be aware of the situation that Estonia is in at the moment. The formula for everything is to go now to the political game within Estonia, who stands most for something. These proposals that I presented to you today in this Chamber are intended to invite political parties, but also society at large, not to passively or even to oppose, to observe what is happening around, but to establish its own path, its own policies, its own principles. It is certainly not just a matter for one party. That is why I called these proposals open proposals. All 12 proposals concern all the topics that are currently being discussed in Estonia. Believe me, like many of you, I have attended dozens of public meetings to discuss this problem. These questions are in people's mouths and minds. I really do not want to have any political party policy here, that should be, just as the point of today's debate is, a cross-party issue, because we are all together in this situation now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U86	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U87	Thank you, manager. Good minister! The Estonian is certainly not an intolerant nation. The number of refugees we receive depends on the country's financial capacity and this should also be recognised honestly. At the moment, the economy is in recession, being cut, laid off, etc. Can you tell us how much money we could spend on receiving and supporting refugees, so that this is not too much for the Estonian state? It would be good to have a specific answer. It's really all about that amount, let's face it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U88	Good questioner! I believe that the greater goal is to achieve a self-confidence and conscious action. It's not just about counting money. With those who come to Estonia under the redistribution and relocation programme, the European Commission, as I said, will bring along EUR 6000 10,000. This is precisely to cover these initial costs. This money is not put in these people's pockets or their account, but is handed over to the host country. I hope that these amounts will, in most cases, be sufficient to make the initial expenditure. The National Audit Office carried out an analysis of the impact of immigration policy on the Estonian social system and noted that this effect is not significant. If we do things right, if we start off on the right foot, these people should be able to manage themselves in the vast majority of our society, which means that we do not have the high costs associated with them. So it's more of a broader issue. The question is, in fact, how to put a stop to the wave of immigration that hit Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U89	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U90	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister for Social Protection! It is a fact that one person or one country cannot help everyone, but everyone can help someone. At the same time, I do not agree that people who ask questions, whether in the Riigikogu, in the media or at public gatherings, get a sign 'intolerable'. In fact, the motivation for asking questions is the lack of information and plans by the government. Or, if that plan exists, it's relatively well hidden. Do you agree with me that the various parties, even in the government coalition, are sending different messages. The IRL proposal is 400 people per year, while the government text speaks of 500 in two years. Such messages raise questions and concerns in people. Do you agree that the information shared by the government is insufficient?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U91	This whole situation is new to us. I agree and have also experienced, when speaking to very many people in Estonia, that people do not understand where they will end up, which is a more distant perspective. After all, there are a lot of people in Estonia who remember these times, which I also recalled in my presentation, that is, when we were not asked how many people were brought into Estonia. These figures were quite different. Then it was hundreds of thousands of people. Another fact is that the situation is constantly changing. We do not have a precise overview of the concrete steps that the European Commission will take in a month, for example. We need to talk about all this honestly. I think the government and government officials have done their best to prepare us for a situation that will come anyway. The question is, where is the limit? This number magic, either it's 150 or 300 or 550, doesn't help us much further. Consequently, our proposal is not closed in any number, but it is an open proposal to discuss what our real capacity is. We have had an immigration limit at law level of 0.1% of the permanent population for years. That's true today. It's a maximum level. The government can only increase this number to this level. At present, this figure is 0,75%. But it doesn't concern this particular subject, it's an analogy. The key question that you also asked is where there is a limit, which is the ceiling, how much we can help, how much we can take in people. This is the point of discussion. I agree that there is a great deal of information to be shared in this information noise and that the whole picture does not really exist for the Estonian people. That's what worries people. So, over and over again, you have to explain these things. The point of my report was also that we should agree on what our action plan is, which is our fundamental decisions, which we are going to move forward, so that we are not constantly facing new problems every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U92	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Tomorrow there will be two drafts in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, with numbers 57 and 81, which will deal with the subject that we are discussing here today. There is more talk about what social and health services are offered to refugees, etc. It also says that their education is paid by the state. What source are all these social and health services paid off? Is this source the Health Insurance Fund, the state budget, the European Union Social Assistance Fund? Is this money coming from the state budget or the local government budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U94	If you mean the law on granting international protection to an alien, the government also added specific obligations to those who come here. They are obliged to learn Estonian and participate in adaptation programmes. If necessary, they will have to undergo a medical examination. All these expenses come from the Estonian state budget. Those people who come here are also entitled to emergency medical care and basic health care, which are paid out of the health insurance fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U95	Minister, thank you for your presentation and your answers. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Management Board of NGO Estonian Refugee Aid Eero Janson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U96	Mr President, members of the Riigikogu, ministers, good listeners. Thank you very much for this opportunity to stand before you today. I represent not only the Estonian Refugee Council in this speaking board, but more generally those organisations that come into contact with applicants and beneficiaries of international protection every day. In addition to refugees who have arrived in Estonia, we also offer our help through humanitarian aid programmes to people in need beyond our reach, to internally displaced people in Ukraine and to people who have escaped from Syria in Turkey. It can therefore be said that we have a fairly good overview of people who have to abandon their homes and move to safe countries because of war or persecution, as well as the problems they face in adapting to Estonia. But I will start from a distance and ask why, in ethical terms, we need to help refugees. Philosopher John Rawls has proposed enough universal thought experiment to solve such issues. In short, how would we decide on ethical issues and social rules if we did not know what position we would find ourselves in on this issue, if we did not know whether we were born in a safe country or in the middle of a war, whether we were rich or poor, a man or a woman, disabled or not? So let us step behind the veil of ignorance and ask which refugee reception system would you speak for if you did not know whether you were a refugee recipient or a refugee yourself. In other ways, if you were ever to flee from persecution or war as tens of thousands of Estonian people fled during the World War, what kind of reception would you expect and expect, whether a warm welcome and initial support for rebuilding your life or an angry crowd with hangers and torches who accuses you of all the world's troubles? So what kind of system do we want? Although we are now talking about the relocation and resettlement of refugees as something new, the reception of refugees in Estonia is in fact nothing unprecedented. Estonia has already adopted refugees since 1997 when the Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees was ratified and the Refugees Act was passed. At the same time, the number of asylum applications submitted to Estonia for the last 18 years has been exceptionally low, consistently the lowest among the countries of the European Union, even though we are a border country. However, this means that we have had 18 years now to think about and develop the reception system for refugees. The development, despite the long-standing lack of political will to help refugees, has indeed been noticeable. While three years ago, after a positive decision, we threw people who have received protection on the street in essence, in the last few years, this work has largely been based precisely on NGOs, we have been able to develop a fairly reasonable support system. It is a system that is already operating and in which we can also involve those arriving in relocation and resettlement. We don't need to start inventing a bicycle because we already have it. In the next two years, Estonia will receive about half a thousand people in need of protection as part of its relocation and settlement programmes. It's about two planes full of people. Let us be honest, in the context of the European and global migration crisis, this is a very small contribution. However, if we help to move on with our lives in a safe Estonia, even in one war refugee, it means at least one of the people we have helped. At the same time, this half a thousand people is a considerable leap to the Estonian system, given that only 130 people have been granted refugee status in the last 18 years. There are plenty of questions that we therefore need to think about. For my part, I would just like to highlight a few of the most important principles that should be given greater attention in the reception of refugees, as well as in the government's action plan. Firstly, the so-called 'election of refugees', as far as possible at all, must not lead to discrimination against people on the basis of religion, colour of the skin and other such features. The choice must be based solely on the need for international protection and nothing else. Human rights, including the right to seek asylum, apply equally to everyone. Secondly, as far as possible, we must take into account the wishes of refugees themselves and existing links with one country or another. Relocation against intent to one Member State or another for the purpose of fulfilling the quota is not reasonable from the point of view of the refugee in war itself or from the point of view of the host country. Coming to Estonia must be the result of an informed decision. Thirdly, the placement of refugees within Estonia should be based primarily on the availability of work and school places and a support network and language learning opportunities. We must not place people in a local government just because there is an appropriate living space there. Obviously, it is the larger cities that make it easier for refugees to adapt. Fourthly, the knowledge of the Estonian language creates prerequisites for the successful entry of beneficiaries of protection into the labour market and is therefore key to self-sufficiency. It is important that language learning is free, well accessible, high quality, intensive and flexible. We have had problems with all these points so far: there have been not enough courses, their level has fluctuated, and many of them are not suitable for refugees who work or learn from zero base. In order to make language learning compulsory for refugees, we must ensure that refugees have real access to suitable free and high-quality language learning opportunities. Experience so far shows that beneficiaries have great motivation to learn the language and get to work. So let us give them these opportunities. Of course, when considering language learning, it is also necessary to introduce language immersion methods in schools so that they can also teach the language from a zero base. Fifthly, it is important to take advantage of the potential of each refugee by giving them the opportunity to start or continue their education here and to find a job corresponding to their competence and previous professional experience. You can't just push them towards the first piece of work that exists. Despite the initial costs incurred by the country in receiving refugees, experience in other countries shows that refugees will soon become taxpayers and equal contributors to the country's economy. Refugees are not a burden for the country, but, especially in view of our ageing and shrinking population, an opportunity and investment. Sixthly, due to the small number of arrivals, we have the opportunity to offer them a tailor's suit to adapt. Every refugee arriving here should have one or more supporters who can help us get through our complex social system and help in other ways to rebuild his life. We have the opportunity to assess the needs of each person individually. This is an opportunity that many countries currently receiving refugees do not have. We do not have to carry anyone on our hands, but we do need to support them in building their lives. Let us also remember that integration is a two-way process. This may sound like a cliché, but no matter how well refugees learn Estonian, no matter how quickly they enter the labour market, it is crucial to their adaptation to society's efforts to understand and support them, regardless of their origin. In two weeks or even months, none of us will learn a new language or be able to fully adapt to the new living environment, whether it is a refugee or a new immigrant who has arrived through regular migration. Adaptation and language learning are long-term processes, the success of which requires a human and respectful attitude. I am therefore very pleased to say that hundreds and hundreds of people have been addressing us over the last few months, including people from this hall who have offered their free time to become a refugee support person or teach them Estonian. We have also been approached by a large number of entrepreneurs who want to work for refugees. So I can assure you that we have a very large number of people with an open world view and a sincere desire to help. With their help and support, we can also embrace future arrivals in Estonian society. But the need for change is inevitable. There's too much hostility around us that was caused by the arson of Vao Keskus at the beginning of September. It inhibits the adaptation of those who come here and pushes away our own household. Exodus from Estonia is known to be much greater than immigration into Estonia, and the important role of wanting to leave here is also played by our public space of thought, which is, if you use Sten Tamkivi's expression, wormed. Please don't let it continue to be wormed! But change is also needed in our broader approach to migration. Time and again, we see migration as a problem, even though the history of humankind is a history of migration. Time and again, we criminalise asylum migration, even though it is people who are far away from home and therefore need our understanding and help. Time and again, we put asylum seekers, including young children, in detention facilities, for example, only recently with a four-year-old child, although these are not criminals, and although there are a number of widely recognised alternatives to detention. There are still cases where people in need of protection have been sent back from the border without having had a real opportunity to explain their situation. We still have not promised independent observers to our borders who could ensure that the rights of all arrivals are protected. We still keep asylum seekers unemployed for a long time, although there are no rational reasons and arguments for doing so. So, the issues that still need to be discussed, we have plenty to deal with. For our part, we are ready to play a full part in finding solutions for them. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The half a thousand people that Estonia will receive during the next two years.. these two planes are only a very small part of the world's nearly 60 million refugees. Let us offer them the support and help they deserve and need, not because we have, or someone from Brussels is asking us to do so, but because we have care and friendliness for those in need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U97	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! My question is simple and I would like a concrete answer. The opinion festival asked the assistant mayor of Tartu who should deal with the refugee contingent, if he knows that there is already one family of four in Tartu. He heard it with surprise. When he got home, it turned out that this family was present in Tartu. I'm approaching September 1st. Do you think it is normal for the local government leaders to know only afterwards what the NGOs have put in place in their municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U99	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Yesterday, the media wrote about refugee families who had started moving from southern Europe to Finland. One family who moved through Germany is already present, the other family arrived in Estonia and is here, indeed, in a so-called detention place. The children were supposed to be sick, there were no warm clothes, and if their relatives who have come from Finland wanted to give them medicines, they could not have done so either. What solution do you see here? It is Estonia that these people now consider it to be the country that no refugee wants to come to.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U101	Thank you. That's a very guiding question. Indeed, we cannot go to Greece and Italy and say that we want Christians. However, the UN and other human rights organisations are not based on what is a person's religion, skin color or other such character, but on whether and what kind of help he needs. This can be the only criterion to be taken into account. Estonia welcomes, as previous speakers have said, people mainly from Syria, Eritrea and Iraq. The situation in Syria and Iraq, I think, everyone knows. Eritrea is such a small North Korean country, which is almost impossible to leave, for example, in the press freedom rankings even behind North Korea. So we're based on whether a person needs protection, not anything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U102	Thank you for your question. The situation of this Iraqi family is a model example of major shortcomings in the European Union asylum system. Asylum seekers have no say in what country they could go to, although in some countries there are family members, there is a network of relatives, or there are friends and friends who would make it much easier to adapt. Instead, the Dublin Convention is still in force, which has largely failed, because people still come from where it would be easiest for them to manage and where they have a support network. This problem, in fact, already refers to the wider problem of the European Union, where solutions at European Union level are also needed, alternatives to the Dublin Convention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U103	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U104	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Non-profit organisations and the third sector in general certainly have a very important role to play in resolving such situations and problems. I thank you for being here to support the state and society! You mentioned volunteers in your speech and said that hundreds of applications had been received from them. How many volunteers do you think are needed now and how can we, in the best possible way, train these volunteers in cooperation between you and the state to achieve the best result?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U105	Thank you for your question. Supporters are intended for beneficiaries of international protection in order to support their adaptation in Estonia. I am just saying to you that supporters do nothing for refugees, but are still there to support them in orienting our system. Two NGOs offer supporters to refugees. Firstly, the Johannes Mihkelson Centre, which is doing so with the support of European Union funding and has been doing so for years, and secondly, we who are doing this on voluntary grounds. As for how many volunteers or supporters are needed, there are now 30 people in the Johannes Mihkelson Center who are doing this job. The system works in such a way that every refugee or family of refugees has one sponsor, but this does not mean that each sponsor only deals with one family of refugees, they can deal with several families at the same time. When I said that there were 30 in the Johannes Mihkelson Center, that means that there are already people who have done this job, but at the end of this year and the beginning of next year we will train at least 40 more people who can do this job. So there's a total of 70 people in the two organizations, which, I think, at the moment completely covers the need. Especially given that support is needed for about the first six months, it should not last for two years. Therefore, supporters also rotate during this period.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U106	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U107	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, You claimed that refugees have a strong motivation for work and are not a burden on society. However, 500 refugees who Estonia is willing to accept will cost our society a minimum of 12 million euros. That's a big load. How do you ensure that their motivation for work is maintained if they lose subsidies to pay for rent and repairs, as well as for the purchase of furniture, etc. when they go to work? Why do you think that Estonian refugees are in a different situation or with a different pattern of behaviour than in Germany, for example, where the Minister of Labour confirmed that the level of education of these people is very low, that there are no suitable jobs for them, and that the addition of a million refugees to Germany means a million unemployed additions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U108	Thank you for your question. As I said in my presentation, it is the experience of other countries that shows that the reception of refugees will boost the country's labour market and refugees will not take jobs away from other people in the country. This has been confirmed, for example, by a very long-term Danish study, a long-term study. You can find it, Mette Foged and Giovanni Peri did this study from 1991 until 2008 and it gives a very good overview of how Denmark has received refugees for over 20 years and what it has done or, more specifically, has given them to the labour market. On the one hand, we can rely on the experience of other countries, on the other hand, we can rely on the experience of the same 130 people that Estonia has had over the last 18 years. On this basis, we can say that not all the people who are now moving out of Vao Keskus need the support mechanism that the state has provided for them, i.e. not all of them need this initial support, for example, in paying rent. However, I very much hope that they will use the language learning money and, if necessary, the translation money provided for them from there. But on other issues, the rights of refugees or beneficiaries of international protection, social rights at least, are exactly the same as the rights of Estonian residents. If they want it or, more specifically, if they need it, they can use income support and other things on the same basis as the permanent residents of Estonia. So there is no need to fear that there would be any special measures or that they would only live on social assistance. Given that since April this year, after six months, the right to work for asylum seekers is also, in fact, the practice of what has been there since April has already shown us that asylum seekers are very happy to enter the labour market with great motivation. This is also very good from the point of view of 'language learning', as language learning in a working group is effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U109	Mart Nutt, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U110	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U111	Honourable Riigikogu! The 20 minutes to answer the questions have passed. I apologize to Urve Tiidus, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru and Marianne Mikkolt! Thank you, Eero Janson, for your presentation. Good luck with your work. I'm opening negotiations. According to the proposal of the Committee on European Union Affairs, representatives of the political groups will get the floor first in the negotiations. Valdo Randpere, on behalf of the Estonian Reform Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U112	Ladies and gentlemen, President-in-Office of the Council. I want to talk today, compared to the previous speakers, about simpler things in some ways, but also about things that I have experienced and seen in many ways myself. A good friend of mine went to Ireland a few months ago, went to the pub and got to talk to some local Irishman who, after a brief introduction, expressed an idea, which I quote: 'We in Ireland have a dark future. All the waking local youths have left abroad and a terrible bunch of Estonians have moved to their place. ' I look around this hall and I can't really get the Estonians to answer that description. Are we really that intelligible and scary? But that Irishman thinks we are. He spoke a little bit more to a friend of mine who, after a few minutes, became convinced that this person had not actually seen any living Estonians with his own eyes before, but it did not disturb him from taking his stand. I am a little familiar with this when I have listened not to this debate here today, but to this debate, which has perhaps been in Estonia for the last six months. The main feature of many of the participants in our debates, the so-called opinion leaders, is that they lack personal experience, but this is offset by the burden of prejudice. On the basis of these prejudices, it is good and easy to go defending our 'blue-eyed' homeland from some creepy different person who's on his way here as hordes. Let us take simple examples of what is often mentioned in the debates about Sweden. In my experience, I feel the situation especially well, can compare, and I inevitably have questions. In Estonia it is often said, even the expression is that look at what has happened in Gothenburg and what has happened in Malmö. I'm not sure if the people who say so have ever been to Gothenburg or Malmö. If they haven't, I suggest they take this ride and then see if they still say, "Look what's happened in Gothenburg and Malmö." I'm so prejudiced that I don't dare go to Kopli at night. But I realize that this is my prejudice, probably my stupidity and restraint, which prevents me from going to Kopli at night. Maybe I should take this road. Since I myself am one of the few people in this Chamber who have actually been a fugitive, I want to talk a little bit about what it's like to be a fugitive. I fled Estonia in 1984. I escaped because Estonia was occupied, I did not like the Soviet Union and the fact that I was not allowed to leave. Leaving and fleeing from this place at the time was a crime, it was a betrayal of the homeland, and it could be punished by imprisonment of up to 15 years or even the death penalty. Shortly after World War II, Sweden received nearly 80,000 refugees, mainly from Estonia, but also from the rest of the Baltics. Many of these people later left Sweden, went on to America or Australia. They did this not because Sweden had badly received them, but because at that time the outbreak of World War III was also feared and the proximity of the Soviet Union feared. At that time, only healthy and strong people could go to America because America didn't accept anyone. Indeed, at that time Swedish refugee policy also had its own rational lines. The refugees were not allowed to live in large cities. Göteborg, Stockholm and Malmö were initially closed to Estonians. In the same way, they were forbidden to engage in politics. But now we would compare the bill and consider the debate in Estonia about what refugees bring to one country. In 1984, when I went to Sweden, Sweden received 12,000 refugees, the corresponding number in Finland was 4. This year Sweden is likely to receive 80000 refugees, Finland nearly 4000. However, in Finland unemployment is higher than in Sweden. The OECD, in one of its reports, has pointed out that every Swedish household earns about EUR 800 per year thanks to the reception of refugees, which is SEK 10000. Sweden's welfare society would probably collapse rapidly if there were no immigrants who often do the easier and lower-paid work that the Swedes themselves do not want to do. The debate on refugees in Estonia has largely been hysterical and overstretched. After all, we are talking about a few hundred people in need who are most likely to integrate into our society so that 99% of us will never come into contact with them. I want to point out a little bit or to commend an organisation or group that has, in my opinion, represented a very sensible and correct direction in this debate. For example, church organizations. I have very much liked the way the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church has reached out a helping hand and demonstrated the best aspects of Christianity in this debate: love and helping those in need. I want to suggest to Estonian politicians and all Estonians that we act and talk in such a way that those who come here as refugees feel safe, not threatened by us. It has often been said that refugees come here and threaten Estonia. I have the impression, as often as I do, that we are a threat to them. I don't think I'd be allowed to adopt an orphan from a war zone because of my age, at least my wife thinks I wouldn't be granted that permission. But I really want to draw the parallel between the mother of refugees and adoption that if someone were to be adopted by adopting refugees too, the country actually adopts these people in a way, then it should not be like judges of a talent show. We help those who need help the most. Let's not try to find out just the ones who can shoot ball on mats best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U113	Please, Mart Helme, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U114	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on a crucial national issue does not get everyone's attention, as we can see. I have this feeling that at least some factions have gone to solve Estonia's labour needs, and they are currently doing some other work. But let's come to today's topic. We have learned a lot about today's debate, including who is to blame for the arrival of immigrants. It was al-Idris who once drew Estonia on a map. Just kidding. I'm gonna take a much more serious tone and say, "Whoever's sowing the wind, it's gonna cut the storm." Who sowed the wind in 2011-2012 and shouted: "The spring of Arabia! Democracy is coming! Dictators are falling! '? These were the countries of the European Union. European aircraft were bombarded in Libya, slipping for noble purposes in Syria. Hell's road is paved with good intentions. They have unleashed what we now feel under the name of the immigration crisis. He who sowes the wind will reap the storm. Who stopped guarding the borders in the Mediterranean, if they had to take ships loaded with thousands and thousands of immigrants, take these people back to the Libyan beach or somewhere else and help them cope with their lives there? It was the border guard of the countries of the European Union who stopped guarding the border and started transporting these people to Europe instead of taking them where they had come from. He who sowes the wind will reap the storm. For decades, the European Union has stubbornly refused the proposals of developing countries, third-world countries, even the demands to end discriminatory trade restrictions, customs restrictions, and to invest not only in conditions that benefit corporations, which ruin their economies, but also in investments that promote their economies. These are the reasons why we are facing these problems today. To accuse the Estonian people of being soberly appreciating the situation is cynical and immoral. Just as it is cynical and immoral to say that in 1944 the Estonians went to Sweden and somewhere else. These people went and received no support services or support persons; they were not accepted by any non-profit organisation. Families were often separated, men went to woodwork, women went to hotels to be janitors. They immediately started working, and no one was worried about how they could cope, how they could learn the language, etc. Valdo Randpere, don't shake your head. You went to work for the central committee of the Komsomol or what kind of committee it was with a definite plan to jump away. Unlike me, who raised children, tried to make Estonian patriots and stood for Estonia to remain Estonia even when tens and tens of thousands of immigrants came from other parts of the Soviet Union each year. I basically have a different way of thinking. To accuse us of wearing this way of thinking - 75-80% of Estonians carry this way of thinking - even today - is immoral. He who sowes the wind will reap the storm. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U115	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U116	If the will of the Estonian people is not taken into account now, if the Estonian people are systematically, repeatedly and repeatedly rolled over in parliament and government, what is already happening in Europe will happen. We see a number of European countries turning their backs on the European Union. We see thousands and thousands of people protesting against the policies being implemented. Mr Janson, for your information, yes, indeed, human history is the history of migration, but human history is also the history of wars. Mankind's history is also the history of the formation and destruction of empires. I recommend reading Spengler, it is now available in Estonian. Spengler has said that I ask everyone to put it behind their ears, that there is nothing more powerful than tribal feeling, national feeling, because no matter what empires are built, they fall apart, and in their ruins, nation states are born again and again on the basis of tribal feeling. Please accept, or resent, the Estonian people are tolerant, the Estonian people are patient. But the Estonian people are also common sense and are not fooled by the ideologies and doctrines of the pink hippie age. It has kept the Estonian people alive, and I can assure you that it will keep us alive in spite of all the brainwashing that is going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U117	Honourable Riigikogu! The Committee on European Union Affairs has proposed to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. We need to vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu! I propose that the working time of this sitting be extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There were 68 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, no respondents or abstentions. The working time of the sitting has been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Let's continue the negotiations. Mihkel Raud, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U118	Dear Mr. Speaker! Dear colleagues! I didn't get my printer to work this morning, and that's why I'm counting my powerless speech off the iPad. It was invented, by the way, by a man named Steve Jobs, the son of a Syrian immigrant. But okay. The idea of today's meeting, at least as far as I understand it, is to make the first and, in some ways, late attempt to find a cross-party consensus on how to deal with the refugee problem that has hit Europe. All summer we've been calling each other Tolerasts and traitors of the nation on the one hand and Nazis and FSB agents on the other. This manger has obviously been necessary, necessary precisely to release the steam. I very much hope that this has taken place today and that we will be able to look a little bit at the problems between picking up political pebbles, because the problems have not gone away, on the contrary, they are getting more and more serious all the time. As a practicing stoic, I am a thousand percent convinced that things are not good or bad, but things are, no matter what our assessment is. Thousands and thousands of people are fleeing from the atrocities of war to Europe, and our negative or positive sense of mind does not make that escape impossible. Just as our possible perception does not undo our inevitable need to deal with these people. I propose to stop further intimidation of the already frightened Estonian people, because it will not do any good. We have no use in declaring the people who arrive here in advance criminals and destroyers of Estonian language and culture. At the same time, I propose that we stop talking about how the Estonian Government has fought bravely against quotas and that only 500 people coming here in two years will be a huge job win. This rhetoric, too, is of no use at all. I propose, dear friends, a ceasefire. Conclude a ceasefire in the mental military situation that governs this hall and also in the corridors of this house. This war is of no use. It's helpful if we focus on finding answers, because there's a lot of questions. How to teach Estonian to people arriving here? How can people arriving here become part of our culture without ruining their own cultural identity? How can they be implemented so that the programmer who arrived here can also program and treat the people of the doctor who arrived here? How can children who have arrived here be properly educated? How can these children be welcome and respected class sisters and brothers in our schools? How can people who have experienced tremendous experiences be helped back to a normal life - style? How do they do so in a situation where they have had to leave their home? How can we use the empathy we have gained from our own historical experiences? These issues need to be discussed with each other now, and I know that this is possible. As Jaak Madison's colleague in both the Committee on Cultural and European Affairs, I can assure you that he is a remarkablely intelligent and admirable person of self-ironism. I can assure you, he can be spoken to alone without having a heart attack. You can talk to him about women and sports, talk about wiener pies and talk about taxes. Jaak, I really hope that you and I can talk about refugees just as calmly. Because this is the only thing that will be of benefit to the voters in Estonia, not to mention Europe, of you, me and all the politicians sitting in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U119	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We talk a lot about refugees, but in fact, refugees make up only one part of people who move to Europe and then from one country to another. It is very important to be precise about the definitions. Who are the refugees? Refugees are people who have left their home country for persecution and therefore need protection. We're still talking about the refugee of war. Who are the war refugees? War refugees are people who have left their homeland because their lives are at risk because of the war situation. We are still talking about economic refugees, immigrants, very many people who do not really need protection. If we now look at Europe, we will see that those who need protection are probably outnumbered. We don't know their number because the detection procedure is complicated, but they're probably outnumbered. When we talk specifically about those people who need protection, who are refugees or war refugees, we can certainly emphasise: all those who need protection need it in all civilised countries. That is why we must also show solidarity in the refugee issue and provide assistance to all refugees, refugees and those in need. Therefore, those people who are refugees or war refugees do not really pose a problem in the European Union. However, there are problems for those who take advantage of the opportunity to come to Europe under the name of a refugee or a war refugee for other purposes. We call them illegal immigrants. Trafficking in human beings, which is one-time business and organised crime, is causing problems, but the European Union has unfortunately failed to put a stop to it. The problems, perhaps even critical, are caused by Europe's unwillingness to address the causes of migration and by an attempt to combat the consequences, for example, through the continuous and increasing redistribution of people. The pressure of some business communities on governments to tackle labour problems through the exploitation of immigrants poses problems. The signal that all those arriving in Europe are welcome has now led the European Union to an inescapable situation where it is no longer possible to deal with migrants. The problem is that people who really need protection, such as those who dissolve among illegal immigrants, actually reducing their chances of being protected. Our countrymen are certainly not opposed to helping refugees, nor to solidarity. I am sure that Estonians are willing to do much for those in need, but our compatriots are opposed to the fact that people who do not really need protection are being displaced across Europe under the cover of refugees. Estonia certainly does not fear refugees, but fears the loss of sovereignty in the decision-making process on immigration. If this is far from our own decision-makers, it is a problem that could undermine the sovereignty of the state. What, then, should be done? I will certainly repeat some of the previous speakers, but nevertheless I think that this should be emphasised. First, checks at the external borders of the European Union and Schengen should be restored and Schengen protected in order to ensure that Schengen is maintained. Decisive measures should put an end to human trafficking in all its forms and establish temporary security zones for immigrants outside the European Union. The refugee identification process and, where appropriate, the rules should be improved. Illegal immigrants, i.e. people who are not refugees or refugees, must either be returned to their country of origin or be helped to return to their country of origin or to the country through which they have come into the European Union. Resettlement should be applied only on a voluntary basis and only to refugees and refugees. Estonia fulfils its international obligations to help refugees and must continue to do so, but Estonia must also be active in shaping international rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U120	Mailis Reps on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U121	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! At least let me go further with a few thoughts for the time being. If we look at the migration crisis in Europe, it is clear that there have been several waves here already in recent months. This has led to questions and misunderstandings in our society as well. When you look at the rather colorful pictures of the boats of the refugees and, at the same time, consider the Syrian population, there are separate reflections. Why is that? After all, there have been several waves of arrivals in Europe, a considerable proportion of these people have been so-called economic refugees, but when you look at the situation people are coming from, it turns out that they are coming from hopelessness to survival. They often lacked the opportunity to find a job at all, neither they nor their children have been able to get an education, and this has gone on for several generations. There is also a move away from environmental impacts: water scarcity, chronic desertification, hunger. Several generations of conflict areas will be moved. At first, people go to the nearest country, from there to the nearest country, and so they reach different zones, often gathering in North Africa for decades, for example. It is understood that if wars, massacres or internal conflicts explode in that region in turn, these groups, nations, and generations will be forced to move. The way in which we have been moving in recent decades, the way in which we can observe it, has been the subject of many studies. Anyone who is interested in it in this Chamber can read it in quite a number of languages. The next big wave that has reached Europe is the refugees from Afghanistan, Iraq and Pakistan. Even now, when we look at refugee centres across Europe, we can see that a significant proportion of the young men there come from Afghanistan, Iraq and Pakistan. It should be noted that there are particularly many minors among them. The reason is simple: boys under the age of 18, or children under the age of 18, are counted under international law in Europe as unaccompanied children, who must be treated particularly humanely and who receive a residence permit and educational opportunities under a significantly simplified procedure. Now a new wave has come from Syria. Of the 23 million Syrian inhabitants, most are now internally displaced in different parts of Syria. They have not moved across the borders of their country and are trying to survive as displaced persons in one place or another. They are also, of course, in the nearest countries, and in European terms they are already at our borders. Now I am talking about the work that has not been done by Europe. Let's remember the debate that happened three or four years ago. Turkey has already pointed out in its early stages that it is spending almost a million dollars a week to create normal living conditions for these people. Jordan and other countries also talked about what help they would need. If we are now in a situation where people have lived on campus for three or four years, often they cannot get an education there, let alone work, it is rather cynical to ask why they want to move forward. Moreover, what is happening in Syria is creating new and new human flows for us. These people don't see a future there. A few words about Estonia. We're actually between two haystacks. By all normal rules, if we respect human rights, international law, established practices and national practice and want to be a European country, we should, yes, despite these slogans 'No quotas! 'and 'Let's decide how much! ', to understand that resettled people want to be in their community. This means that these 500 or fewer people should all be displaced on a single community basis so that they can feel at all normal. The questions of the reputables have perhaps already been answered today. But the fundamentals are a bigger problem. If we actually stop returning people from the border, if we actually guarantee that human rights organisations can provide help and advice on the border, if we really stop putting people in prison or prison-like detention facilities and give people the opportunity to communicate with members of their community, then we can become an attractive destination. At the same time, we have followed what human rights and customs really expect of us. So we're in a paradoxical situation. If we are still reactionary and perhaps non-tolerant, we are in a good case a transit country and we can say with pride a few years later, as was also pointed out in Hungary, that, well, there may have been 300,000 people passing through the country, but no one wants to stay here. I'll finish with a question. Today we have not talked much about Ukraine, but we are talking about Syria. Indeed, there is no community here today where the Syrian can feel normal, but the Ukrainians know Estonia well. Estonia is also known in the region where there is reason to relocate. Of the 4.9 million people in Eastern Ukraine, some 2.5 million have already moved to Ukraine. Of these 2.5 million, we can say with certainty that most of them are not a semi-statistical and self-sustaining fraction of barely 700000 people. The question arises as to why they do not have documents, why they cannot attend school and kindergarten every day. Because they come from Eastern Ukraine and for political reasons, it is quite difficult for them to adapt in Ukraine. Are these not people who really need the attention of Estonia, in addition to this problem in Syria? This could be an appropriate issue when discussing immigration policy. My proposal is to consider whether, if possible, significantly greater attention could not be paid to the internal refugees in Ukraine, who are not included in any statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U122	Monika Haukanõmm on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U123	Mr President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good listeners! I am really glad that we have arrived in this Chamber with the debate on the migration crisis issues from the committees, because this issue deserves to be discussed here. It is certainly a good thing that we are trying to find a common approach. I am therefore trying to highlight the views of the Free Party on migration policy. We are deeply concerned about what is happening in North Africa and the Middle East, about the outbreak of terrorism and war and about the trafficking of human beings, which, in conjunction with the inadequate immigration policy of the European Union, has caused unprecedented migration of peoples. The root cause of the refugee crisis that has engulfed Europe in North Africa and the Middle East, and the inconsistency of the central power of these countries with democratic reforms, the chaos it brings, and the radical attack on Islam, as well as the message sent by some European leaders, as if the European Union were willing to accept immigrants kindly. Of course, our European values are easy to exploit for those whose goals are not fair. Yes, the European Union is in crisis. A number of crises need to be dealt with at once: the migration crisis, the financial crisis in Greece and the forthcoming referendum in the United Kingdom, to which military action in Syria has been added in recent weeks. The crisis is probably more than the European Union can handle at once. This is probably also one of the reasons why this migration crisis has not been able to respond as quickly and adequately as it could have been expected among the leaders of the European Union or in the Member States. Although at the beginning of the migration crisis there was a game of hiding almost in the sand, the situation suddenly resolves itself, it must be acknowledged that what is happening near the borders of the European Union could not come as a surprise to either Europe or Estonia. It is very regrettable that the Member States began to blame each other for who was more guilty and to look for who was more European. Estonia, as a Member State of the European Union, bears moral responsibility for contributing to the resolution of the situation, but only on its own merits and on a voluntary basis, as has been heard repeatedly in this Chamber today. We do not agree with the mandatory quota system proposed by the European Commission, which violates the sovereignty and discretion of the Member States. During spring, the focus was largely on figures of how many refugees are sent to which country, and thus the issues involved were inevitably overlooked, including adequate communication with the public. Estonia must be prepared to fulfil its obligation and share this responsibility and responsibility. We understand very well that people fleeing war with their lives must be helped, no doubt about it. Every year several thousand people come to Estonia from outside the European Union to study or work. Therefore, all those who want to come to our country in a legal way are welcome. We support the adoption of war refugees, but illegal economic refugees are not welcome in Estonia and must be sent back to their country of origin. We have reason to look, in fact, towards Germany, which could set a good example by sending thousands and thousands of illegal immigrants out of their country, because they are not war refugees, they are illegal economic refugees. After all, this information would move from mouth to mouth, just as the information is spreading, that the European Union will accept everyone when it is said that there is an escape from war and life is at risk. The European Union's borders must be maintained, and seriously so that possible migration routes must be blocked in the air, water and land, including Estonia's own external borders must be effectively protected. We are of the opinion that the solution to the crisis that has arisen lies first and foremost in the countries of origin and, first and foremost, there is a need to contribute to it, because people do not really want to leave their home country and nobody comes lightly looking for a better life. It is in our interest, and it is also cheaper and more reasonable for us to assist these people in their home country. After all, the situation has become even more explosive than it was a few weeks ago. There have been explosions in downtown Ankara, and there's military activity in Syria. We believe that much more needs to be done to help the "frontier" countries outside the European Union, which have large refugee camps. If we do not do so, the immigration into Europe will continue. If Turkey, for example, raises its hands and sends boats towards the European Union, what then? Can the European Union cope with an even greater migration crisis? Can Estonia cope with the sudden presence of hundreds of refugees on our borders, perhaps several thousand refugees? But we are now coming back to Estonia from the European Union level, because we alone can do our homework. I very much like to believe that Estonia is an open, friendly and cohesive country where it is good and safe for all people to live: Estonians, Russians, Syrians, Ukrainians and others. Without fear, without discrimination on grounds of nationality, race, sexual orientation or religion. I do not like living in a country where anger is sown and confidence undermined. I like to live where concerns are heard, responded, and understood. This means that the fears and fears of our own people will be taken seriously. Nor should our own people feel that their concerns and needs are in the background. Confidence should not be damaged. We must remain realistic and recognise the positive aspects of migration, but also the possible negative effects. We do not really know who is more afraid of whether Estonians are refugees or refugees or if they are refugees. But one thing is certain: refugees coming to Estonia must come here to understand the situation they were sent to, they must come here voluntarily and be prepared to contribute to the development of the Estonian state. Those who do not want to do this are not welcome here. In recent days, I have started to think more and more about whether our plan to disperse refugees across Estonia is really right. Fragmentation versus holding together. I understand that behind this plan is the desire to avoid ghettoisation and to engage in rapid integration. On the other hand, by spreading people, we need more and more translation, language courses, supporters, reorganisations in schools, etc. Perhaps it would be wise to bring these people together. We believe that the action plan needs to be clarified and constantly updated. I believe that the country can cope with this situation, but there is still a long way to go. I also believe that we are not a small and vicious country or a small and vicious people who are panictically afraid of everything that is unknown and alien, but we are actually very nice and hospitable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U124	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good expert! You have already dealt with quite a number of problems, one of which is return from the border. We've been talking to you about this. In fact, the situation has not changed, we do not really have an overview of how many people are being sent back from the border or how many are going through here as so-called flows and who we do not want to recognise as refugees in order for them to pass through here quickly. But my question is a little broader. As an expert, you have also come across the subject of Ukraine. The Eastern Ukrainians are internal refugees in Ukraine and are not very welcome there. How much could you predict a real Ukrainian flow to Estonia if we acknowledged that the refugees in Eastern Ukraine are not safe and good in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U125	Thank you. In the context of Ukraine, Estonia is a bit of a special country, because very many Ukrainians have relatives here, they have come here and they have links with our country. However, we know that it is now almost impossible for a Ukrainian to leave the country and reach a country of the European Union, including Estonia. One of the solutions from Estonia's point of view would be to simplify family migration so that people living in Donetsk or the region of Lugansk can leave it and if they have relatives, then reunite with them. But, of course, more generally, it points to a bigger problem. We have now created a system in Europe that is internally incompatible. On the one hand, according to the Geneva Convention and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we have recognised the right of people to seek asylum, on the other, we will not allow them to access this system so that we can process their applications. After all, this is actually the broader reason why people come across the Mediterranean and take such a dangerous journey to Europe. They don't have safe and legal routes to come here and ask for asylum. These options could be humanitarian visas, which could also be issued to Ukrainians from the war zone, but also to facilitate family reunification and other such methods. It is, in fact, a whole 'toolbox' to facilitate the movement of people in need of assistance and international protection to safe countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U126	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U127	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Janson! You mentioned that people are willing to contribute their free time to refugees. The world is, of course, very nice to improve for other people's money; I know that this free time is compensated by the Estonian taxpayer. Here's the question. You're representing a non-profit organization, but you're getting some kind of income from somewhere. Your latest annual report is available for 2014. I thought your turnover was about 41000 euros. Can you tell us how much it has grown in 2015, how much is the Estonian taxpayer's contribution to your income and how much it will cost to pay? Maybe you can tell us how much it's gonna grow next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U128	Thank you. I do not see that the financial issues of our non-profit organization are on the agenda right now, but I can say that we are acting first on the basis of donations, so that people donate to us and, secondly, on the basis of projects. A very large part of the budget is, for example, targeted support for humanitarian aid in Ukraine. These are the parts of our budget. All that has been donated to us, for example, for the sake of the campaign 'Ukraine! As part of the campaign (this campaign started a year ago), it has gone to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U129	Dear Riigikogu, we are discussing Estonia's migration policy on the proposal of the European Union Affairs Committee. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I'd love to share and share this philosophy of helping, but goodness is not always such a single motive for both the recipients and the incoming. That is why I have two questions. Firstly, how to mitigate the risks associated with people not only coming as refugees with good intentions, so what is your cooperation with the security authorities, the Defence Police? What has it been so far, and how important do you attach to this motive? Secondly, if the refugee flow is going well and the refugee flow is retreating, do you not see the danger that the reception system could become a self-generated industry, which, even if there is no need, will demand our daily refugees, or the main motive, not to improve the world, but to provide such a livelihood?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U131	Thank you. First of all, the risks. As the Minister of the Interior has already said here, the applications of those people who arrive in Estonia in the framework of these two systems or programmes (resettlement and relocation) have already been processed, these people have been subject to background checks and the risks associated with them have been assessed. Of course, if it appears that a particular person has come to Estonia with bad intentions, he is already a member of the Police and Border Guard Board and the Defence Police. These are the problems that these authorities are dealing with. As regards whether helping refugees can be a source of livelihood, we can also ask whether, for example, humanitarian aid is a part of the livelihood of people and whether working in the Rescue Board is a source of livelihood. I don't think any fireman would expect his wages to be preserved, that any house would ignite.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U132	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U133	Honourable waitress! You mentioned in your speech that we cannot choose acceptable persons on the basis of their nationality, origin or religion, which again contradicts the statement by several ministers that we should actually prefer Christians in particular. I would like to begin by recalling that all of us here, 101 delegates, have sworn to remain true to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, which says very clearly that we must ensure that the Estonian nation and culture continue throughout the ages. However, I do not know how much Estonian culture has to do with Islam, for example. I really stand with the body and soul for Estonian culture not to be mixed with others or to be corrupted by foreign religion, or Islam. Therefore, what is more important to you, whether to follow the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the will and desire of the Estonian people, or to accept persons when driving over them, regardless of their background?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U134	Thank you for your question. If the person's application for international protection is answered positively, he receives protection here, then he will be granted a residence permit. It is a temporary residence permit for one to three years. Like all other Estonian people who live here either as citizens or on the basis of a residence permit, refugees have the right to move to exactly where they want to go. There are no restrictions here; they are not only connected to this one municipality. Nor is it the kind of decision made by NGOs. This decision is made by these people themselves, according to current practice, at least in cooperation with the Vao Keskus. As regards the refugees to be relocated and resettled, a partner from the Ministry of Social Affairs will start looking for housing for them. It may not be announced until the end of this month or the beginning of the following month. They should have found a place to live already when they land at Tallinn Airport. How it all develops is likely to be seen in practical work. But yes, as far as this Tartu case is concerned, as I said, the municipality will actually know about this person when that person registers to live there. Of course, in the case of refugees, it would be extremely important for the municipality to be informed if such a family or person, perhaps with special needs, moved to that territory. The representatives of the municipality should also be brought together with the support person of the family or individual, so that further steps can be discussed so that it is easier for everyone to adapt. This school should also be informed and seen to ensure that, for example, the language immersion methodology can reach the school, of course, if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U135	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, there have been talk about this speaker in very different styles. Several performers have used many styles. For example, Eero Janson used poetic images in addition to the practical style. He began his speech with a strong image that our task was to reach out to those in need. I remembered what Jesus of Nazareth said about giving help. More specifically, it was about giving alms. The sixth chapter of Matthew's Gospel contains his words: "You, however, if you share your alms, do not let your left hand know what your right hand does. " It has always been in the Bible a place to explain. I've been taught that that means that if you're helping someone, you shouldn't at the same time think about the benefits of helping yourself. As members of the Riigikogu, we must make the right number of decisions more intensively than Lord Janson or our constituents can afford. We need to make the right decision in principle. We must help to ensure that the technical details of this decision are correct. But perhaps the most important thing is that we need to think about the possible negative consequences of any decision. It is never the case that a public decision has only the one, the best and desired consequence that we want. Moreover, in theory, an infinite number of other consequences come along, and some of them are quite certainly negative. From time to time, probably some good things must not be done only because the accompanying bad things are greater than the expected good. I want to draw your attention to one of the accompanying phenomena, and this is, as Eero Janson's report showed, that we have already basically started in Estonia. I would call it the economic sphere of admission. This means that centres will be set up and people will be trained to get a job. So what happens next? The number of incoming people will be accepted, but those who specialize in this job will remain. It is logical, at least in the opinion of them and their families, that next year they would at least have just as good income and be able to do the work they have already learned. After all, the houses are also inhabited and the systems that have been set up need work to continue. That's it. In many European countries, this sector exists and its political impact is such that it becomes a domestic pressure group, which actually tells all of us and future leaders that it would be in the interests of these people to have at least as much job of the same format as it will be next year, which means at least just as many migrants, let us use any name for them. I want to draw attention to this here because, in a situation where we are about to take action, it is the right time to think ahead about how to minimise this and other possible negative consequences. It is probably not possible to prevent them, but it would be in Estonia's interest to achieve that, if international pressure or the need for asylum were to diminish, we would not be faced with a situation in our country where a very important group of state officials, people working under contract in non-profit organisations or even people carrying out occasional interpretation work, would demand that they be given the same work at least as in previous years, but, if possible, for more and more remuneration. There is no one else in Estonia except us, the Riigikogu, who is obliged to think about this aspect. We also need to think about this when our society, the public and the government do not consider this matter to be important or even unaware of it at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U136	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U137	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I was also very sympathetic to Mikkli's call to be civilized. It is true that the debate is emotional because the stakes are extremely large, extremely large. Personally, and our party has repeatedly disturbed me that we are holding this debate or discussing these issues on the basis of some kind of nebulae, super-high and very abstract principles, but the real practical problems are not addressed. A few speeches have asked us how we should solve all the problems that have repeatedly run through debates. What are our practical solutions to all of this that we are facing? I think it's more important to ask first 'Why? '. Why should we even accept that our homeland is changing beyond recognition? Why should we accept importing all these problems into Estonia? Why? Why should we accept this? There is no such thing as determined fate or inevitable future. If there were, we wouldn't have any sense sitting here, we wouldn't have any reason to argue about anything. We have decisions in our hands that determine the course of the future of Estonia. We are now deciding what will happen not only in a few months' time, but also in a few and a few decades' time. It's a very big responsibility. This course depends on us. We have with us the power of our people to think very carefully where we want to go. Yes, we quote a lot about the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, and in our own party we also quote a lot about the feedback we receive from our constituents. But obviously not all people in this Chamber understand the responsibility that comes with the decisions that are now being taken by the government. We would have liked them to be lowered in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. With this question, my previous speaker and, for example, Kalle Palling and Eero Janson have a great philosophical question as to whether we are loving and tolerant people or whether we are appalling haters. My argument is that we cannot be tolerant of everyone at the same time and love everyone. We have to choose something and someone. Don't have a heart attack, Mr Janson and all the other tolerants, but we need to make a distinction, perhaps a discrimination, in determining who is most important to us and what is most important to us. It is quite clear to our party; there is nothing difficult here; there is no difficult decision here: the good performance of the Estonian people, their economic, spiritual, cultural prosperity, and demographic prosperity are of the utmost importance to us. All the decisions we are considering in this Chamber will begin with the question of how this will affect the well-being of the Estonian people. We have received a clear response from the experiences of other countries and from our analysis: mass immigration affects the lives of the Estonian people badly. It's so simple. Therefore, everything must be done to ensure that Estonia is not hit by mass immigration. For this we have the mind and the means, we know what needs to be done both in Estonia and in Europe at large. It requires the courage of decision-making, it requires an understanding of what solutions have been developed elsewhere, and it requires an understanding of what has caused the crisis. There's been a lot of talk about these things today. May I ask for more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, 'And this land couldn't feed them, so they had to leave,' says the Bible book. Refugees and migration, both economic and war refugees, are a problem of thousands of years old. Estonians are proud to have lived on this plot for ten thousand years. Sometimes we think we've all lived here, and so have all our ancestors. I have a visual on General Johannes Kerd. We could tell you together how 400 years ago the first period of military medicine was when the wounded were not removed from the battlefield, and 20 years later the names of Estonian peasants and masters were Jaak Ain Russe, Hollander, Herman Deutsche, etc. If I look at the fiercest of the refugees in this hall, I could tell some people that he has some Swedish knight's blood, some Russian blood, some Latvian blood, and maybe something very exciting. At the same time, migration has always been about what we do not know, but we should know. When a hundred years or a little more time ago Estonians volunteered as refugees rather than as refugees in the Far East, it was not until decades later that historians found that they did not, they did not go voluntarily. Somewhere high, it was decided that they were needed to exorcise our yellow brothers from this area. There was racial politics and national politics and other ugly things back there. It was said here that the Estonian people are in debt. I assure you that when we think about Geislingen, where there were thousands of Estonians, and we begin to calculate, we can say that we owe tens of thousands of years of refugees. Yes, it was a different migration and it can be said that they were not even refugees, but they kept the Estonian state and cultural continuity. Again, without going further, in 1945 Estonians had one high-level upper secondary school, it was in Geislingen, where all subjects were taught by professors at the University of Tartu. A good colleague, Valdo Randpere, has just recalled how one thing or another is in Sweden. I have worked in Sweden and I have spoken to the Swedish criminal police chief who then said to me: 'There are two very different groups of people: the elite, who have come to us as a boat-escape, and those hustlers who have jumped in recent years. It was a surprise to us. " Those are his words. What causes the Estonians' concern about refugees? You shouldn't say it's bad who's worried or the good guy with the euphoria in his pants. These are global problems. I see global problems are being felt. We could all, uh, make one call or another, head the UN. Global problems are those that affect globally, but which can only be solved in your home and on the ground by doing your job. This huge burden of failure weighs us down and makes us weak. Now, I'm talking about some of those fragments that others aren't talking about. The keyword is 'national culture'. We are talking about emigration and they say that our young people will come back because we have such a strong national culture that will bring them back. Nobody thinks that for the last ten years, the same Riigikogu has whistled on national culture and found that, at best, it is some sort of fourth replacement point. We are told that we are integrating others, but it is necessary that the study and development of the Estonian language, and the research on this topic, stand on a solid basis. We need to explore Estonia's history because it is one of the foundations of national identity. Knowing our history, we know who we are. Our current history is, in the opinion of policy directors, the time of an apology, a tablet and a cripple. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U139	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U140	I remember those discussions where it was found that, no, we do not need to discuss doctoral problems in history or other soft sciences, because the film of star wars is more important for Estonian youth than Tammsaare. Our historical concepts are largely borrowed from somewhere, they come from the Tsar Age, and we are doing the job of settling these paradigms. They're like a patched skirt. No one's ever tried to worry about a new skirt, so there's another place between here and there. That's how it works with our national sciences. Don't think this is some kind of beer case investigation. In order to know which policy, what development has been in Estonia, the archives of the peoples that rule us must also be examined. That, too, requires work and money. Young Estonians said: 'Let us become Europeans, but let us also remain Estonians. ' I listen and see that we have taken the first half of this call with great effort and that we all want to become Europeans. But 'let us remain Estonians' on top of this, one of the IRL's recent leading politicians said very nicely: 'But if our children want to speak English in 20 years' time and if they are so good, why should we be against it? ' If the current refugee policy continues and we do not patch up our ship, we will get closer to the fact that our children already speak a different language. I am in favour that society must be whole, not in any way the same way, that we run faster with one leg and slower with the other. If we don't keep the national culture, if we don't invest in it and when we do the state budget, we're talking again that mathematics is hugely important, because modern science otherwise doesn't grow up with the science that without military support or, sorry, without the support of the empire will suddenly not survive, then there's something a little bit wrong. Estonia is ready to take refugees on its ship and must take them, because this is always the case. But our ship could be with a few holes. First, the holes have to be repaired and, well, good friends, above all, helping for national culture and national science, otherwise the ship will be filled with water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U141	Mikhail Stalnukhin. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U142	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U143	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who have taken the trouble to stay in the Chamber while discussing a very important national issue. I've already talked about this. Unlike you, I'm family-related to the people we've been calling Murjani lately. Through family ties, I am constantly familiar with the situation in the hottest regions where refugees are now coming from. One of my daughters speaks Arabic and lives in Beirut. So much for a start. It has been a pleasure to hear Mr Irona say that we will make a truce during the war. Excellent! But unfortunately, I have rarely seen Mr Irona here when we discuss important matters. That's it. During the Arab Spring, the fists of the then Minister of Defence, if you remember, were itchy, so that the Estonian boys should be put in order and sent to Libya. What did we achieve with this? My colleague, Mart Helme, has already talked about this in substance. Hoping for a safe and pleasant summer after the Arab spring and then a fruitful autumn, we actually sowed storm seed and opened flood screens. I recall that this same Libya has become one of the largest windows in Europe. While the 700000 more prosperous Libyan refugees are now living in Tunisia, most of them are waiting for their moment to come here. That's it. Perhaps you will remember that, during the last major refugee crisis, twice as many people came to Germany in 1992 as they did in 1991. Compared to the previous and current years, the number of refugees has now increased from 400000 to 800000, and perhaps by the turn of the year it will reach a million. In the neighbouring country, Finland, cold and bleak, the number has increased 15 times as of now. What did all this have to do with it? At that time, the German constitution was changed, the fires of Vao and all such sad events began. We're actually on the same road. We should be discussing the black scenario honestly right now. We're in front of a pretty busted trough. Entrepreneurs in both Germany and Estonia are largely of the opinion that they should let people, new workers, in. The rulers of the people often call them backwards. We have recently taken from the people the possibility of directly electing the President for the 12th time, even though the people want the chance. Soon we will be here to push through the so-called 'gay law', which is also opposed by many. But right now, I wouldn't humiliate a people who's scared because it's justified fear. I hate to scare you, but I have to be honest and talk about what has happened in countries that have been exposed to these problems for a longer time. In several countries where refugees come from, people are invited to Finland because they can easily rape women. If you look at the Nordics, it's already been confirmed. In Norway, statistics more than ten years ago showed that most rapists... A few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U144	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U145	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U146	...from the very same contingent. The neighbouring town of Stockholm is dangerous enough for women of childbearing age today, which can be compared to the large cities of South Africa, I am thinking again of this aspect of rape. We should talk about the refugee economy, which has been analysed very thoroughly in Germany. Hotels and the rental market will win. We should understand how much one municipality or another will have to buy, for example, refrigerators and washing machines, and the City of Nuremberg will buy 9,000 washing machines this year. How many teachers do you need? Germany only needs 25 000 new teachers at present. We're talking about those who can speak a language that people here would understand. However, the biggest financial withdrawal, when you look at the data from Germany or Sweden, is the money that these people are given. In Germany, it is currently over EUR 900 for those who have received refugee status. In view of this information obtained from other countries, the coefficient is often actually higher than in the case of troubled people. How do we explain this and whether it's normal, we could argue about it and discuss it. The fact is, we have to admit our back is against the wall. I must commend the current rulers for their conservative refugee policy, but I would like to emphasise again: we must realise that our back is strongly against the wall. We are one of the few countries that have been able to receive so few people, but given the pressure that is now, the flood, I doubt how long we can resist. So once again, yes, I totally agree with the ceasefire. I agree with that completely. I call on my colleagues, including those who, for some reason, very rarely see in this Chamber, to be here more often, to express their views on other very important issues and to speak about matters as they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U147	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U148	Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on a crucial national issue in Parliament should not become the death of a debate. In any case, praise to Mihkel Raud for trying to build an emotional bridge between Syria and Estonia using Steve Jobs and a tablet computer. I'm talking about the paper. The idea of paper came from the Chinese. So I hope that our tolerance for the Chinese people will now be considerably greater. But there are a number of things that bothers me about this whole subject. There is talk of hate speech, and it is said that it must not be aggressive or emotional, that when dealing with this whole problem, it must be well controlled and sober, rational thinking, such as a passionate mathematician. You can't totally agree with that. When questions are asked and no answers are received, that is one of the reasons why people get emotional. For example, there is a very clear question about labour market policy as to what is the Estonian labour market policy for the next ten years, which jobs people who come here are claiming whether new jobs are created or jobs are being taken away from people who are now living here. This is an existential question that a government policy should answer, that our labour market policy is like this and that, we create new jobs, we no longer live in poverty, we no longer pay people EUR 500 to 600, but our economy is so strong and powerful that we can pay people EUR 1500. That's the way I'm gonna teach you, government politicians, you can take your fears down. If we have two arabists, it's up to you to say that there are two arabists today, but there's a program that will soon have 20 arabists. I also disagree with the statement that we have experienced a great deal of migration in history and that we have become richer and more experienced. We have experienced migrations between Christians. But please give an example of history where Muslims and Christians would be very well integrated. Bring up such success stories once again with a little teaching and then show us how this is possible. I want to know how many people in this hall have read through the Koran, which was put into Estonian a year ago. Do we understand those who come? We want them to understand us, but do we understand them? Speaking of previous speakers, I must say that Tsahkna's speech was deeply disturbed when the Chairman of the IRL spoke about putting open questions on the table. I object to whether the coalition partners SDE and the Reform Party have so far made closed proposals and if they have made them, what these closed proposals are. Very interesting to know. The second thing was when the politician of Isamaa spoke here about Estonian language learning and support services. There are 61000 people in Narva City. I do not see that there are effective Estonian language learning programmes there. I do not see a state gymnasium with an Estonian background. This is all the work that has been done, and that is what creates social mismatches. If words were to respond to actions, such emotional talk would not be possible. I would like to state that you cannot, with the help of a debate on a crucial national issue, die the debate; you still have to give very clear answers to the questions that have been asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U149	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U150	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The subject is so emotional that I was forced to write down my speech, even though I wanted to talk in my head. So I'm sorry I'm talking like this, on paper. A little bit of my speech goes with Professor Aadu Black, who was talking about history and culture here. I am also talking about culture and fear, love my culture and fear of a foreign culture. I treat the world as a global cultural space, where we are, in fact, only one extra piece of the world's cultural mosaic in color. Can it be dangerous if your culture is loved so much that it leads to fear, fear, and hatred? Yeah, it's dangerous. This issue is emotional and the objective approach to emotional debate is always hampered by fear. Fear comes from ignorance. Not only are the quotas or agreements allocated for the reception of refugees and the amount of money allocated for language learning important information that we need to get an overview of. We must start, among other things, broadening our own horizons in order to reverse fear and improve the world. If today's adults have had too little opportunity to learn about what is happening in a wide world, it is somewhat understandable, because it was my generation, i.e. the 50s and older, who learned at a time when speaking about the world's expanse was as well forbidden as it was later lived in the enchanting of dogmatic stereotypes that had already been rooted in childhood, then this gap should be filled as an adult. Aadu Black spoke about the need to study national culture. I totally agree with that. But we all need more information about the specifics of different cultural spaces. It is not just about learning one language or another. It is about learning about the traditions and peculiarities of other cultural spaces and accepting that the history of countries, traditions of nations, traditions of behaviour and temperament are different. In fact, we should start with low-level primary school classes. Then we would grow a large circle of eyes of the Estonian people who, loving their own, could honor others as well. If we respect others, we too will be loved. At the moment, we may need financial instruments to provide our fellows, all of us adults, psychology training and support, and to teach the history of the world, so that my generation can adapt to a new world that has long since been in place, which is no longer the same as in the 1940s or 1960s or not in the 1990s, whether we like it or not. At that time, now and in the future, we will be kept together in this world by a matrix. It's a spiritual field. That is what we create with our thoughts and words every day. To illustrate this reasoning, I would like to read a paragraph from Deepak Chopra's book The Recipe of Supreme Happiness. Chopra is a well-known public speaker, writer, medical doctor and spiritual teacher born in India. Perhaps it is unusual in this Chamber to read a paragraph from the book, but I feel that this writer and teacher have best been able to write down the values that are important to me. I would like to share these values with my colleagues both in this Chamber and on the other side of the light blue screen, hoping that this reading will open up a valuable box of souls. 'We all have a global contribution to the creation of happiness, which is real and lasting. For many, the phrase "happiness heals the world" sounds too sought after and desirable. [---] But the basic level is that happy people do not choose to develop chemical weapons, start terrorist movements, perform torture or start wars. [---]...when people become unhappy and their unfamiliarity radiates out onto the environment. Individual unification promotes the state of chaos, confusion and conflict. The state that we have all felt in our personal lives is the result of the world's unfortunate problems as naturally as night follows day. When J. Krishnamurt was asked how to avoid war, he said something deep. He said, "Change yourself. Your own anger and violence are the cause of all wars. ' [---] It has always been true that we depend on each other for our emotional and physical well-being. A bad word from someone else could cause physical chaos in your body. A loving word can turn chaos into harmony. Such emotions as love, compassion, empathy, and joy bring the world back to a state of balance. " Beware! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U151	Laine Randjärv, please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U152	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, When I travel through my hometown, I usually spend twice as much time as it takes to cross one route or another. If it takes 15 minutes to get there, I'll be out half an hour early. Almost a hundred percent sure that someone will pick up the button and start talking about some of the problems that people think are most important at this point or another. Last year, people were talking about Ukraine, and this summer people seemed to be the most important issue for refugees. I've summed up the questions I've been asked. I had four groups of questions. I listened intently to this debate here, with the aim of understanding whether we have the answers to these questions or not. Maybe we can decide together. The first question: the nature of the problem. It is not that there are refugees coming to our country, we are being told that 400-500, I would say 4000-7000. That's not the problem. The problem is that one or the other country, which is at the top of the others only because it has certain weapons systems, is going to decide who it's going to bomb at one point or another. It did not start during the Arab spring, as Mr Helme said. It started much earlier. In 1999 there was Yugoslavia, after Afghanistan and Iraq. Was there any international powers? No, it wasn't. The question is, if we solve this problem today, who will ensure that tomorrow no one will send their bombers, for example, to Sudan. I'm sorry, Sudan's just a name right now. Sudan, Somalia, Liberia at any moment could be bombarded, and then there will be another wave of refugees in Europe. The nature of the problem is that there is no international system to prohibit such operations. As a result, those who bomb live peacefully in their own country, but Europe will have refugees. To understand that, as long as this system is in place, we are certainly not insured against anything in this Chamber. No one wants to talk about this because it is embarrassing to have supported the Iraq war, supported Afghanistan, supported the Arab Spring. Second round of questions. Is there any idea of the number of refugees waiting for us? Of course not. Some people talk about 400, others talk about 500. Today, according to the UN, 594000 refugees are officially present in Europe. It's official record. Official! Can you imagine how many of them are off the record? While the Swedish Social Democrats are already scaring the Baltic States that they must either start playing according to European rules or lose their economy, their borders and so on, it is clear that they are now being sought to obtain consent in the same way as the virgin's first night. The next night's gonna be a lot easier. The first step is taken and it does not matter whether there are 120 or 170 people in question, but thousands will come after that. Look at that picture on TV and the Internet. Of the current arrivals in Hungary and Germany, take a good look at this, 70 to 80% are young men aged 20 to 30. What does that mean? He puts his roots in the ground, and then he calls his family. This means that anyone who comes has to multiply by 10 or 20. So we have no understanding of the number. Problem three, funding. Do we have any idea how much this is gonna cost? No, it's not. When asked how much it costs, the Minister says that European values are more important than money. I'll see what kind of song you're gonna sing when you really have to pay. The question is that if it were a policy of the European Union, it was coordinated, and we all bear equal responsibility, I would not mind. But I already mentioned the drafts on the agenda tomorrow, 57 and 81. As far as education is concerned, it only says that financing comes from the state budget. If I read the rest of the text, I understand that it is not the responsibility of the state or the European Union that has been written down here because, after a while, all this will be brought to the hands of the local government. We have no idea of funding; the government is afraid to take on any responsibilities and responsibility. Fourth round of questions. This is what is called integration, language learning, cultural peculiarities, tolerance, etc. A lot of people were trying to look like we were very tolerant when they were standing on this bleacher. You say you're tolerant!? Are you kidding me? 13 times I have stood before you with a small request that you solve a few thousand narvas one small problem of six centuries. 13 times you've been looking for a way to say no. You spit on the people who have lived here next to you for hundreds of years. Who listened to the Russians when we asked for Russian education to be kept even in upper secondary school? This year has shown us that we are right. We did an exact science school in Narva and the test results are now 20% better than the average in Estonia. This is because children can study mathematics in their own language. There is no tolerance in our society! I'm terrified to think about it when new people come here, with a completely different culture, a completely different shape, a completely different background. God, save Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U153	Mr President, I would also like to ask you to register an extra time right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U154	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U155	Ladies and gentlemen, The day has been very intense and the debate very sharp. I was first made to listen to Mr Randpere, who tried to explain or prove that everything that we can make sure through public communication is kind of wrong, and he knows exactly how it really is, and everything that international media and ordinary Swedes say is kind of fiction. I must say, unfortunately, that Mr. Randpere is wrong. I have also been to Sweden very often myself, I have relatives there, I also have contacts with the Swedish political forces, and I know very well what Sweden really is in. The Swedes live in a society of fear. A common Swede, be it Mats, Bengt or Lars, dares not say in any interview, publication or comment that what is happening in Sweden has exceeded any reasonable limit and that it is working against its own people. If you do, you'll get a sign that you're a racist, anger-boggling, hostile person who's not tolerant or tolerant. This is now a real situation in Sweden. How else would any supporter of this policy explain to us why the National-Conservative Swedish Democrats have become the most popular party in Sweden? Never in history have they had such popularity as today's 25%. Consequently, something has been very wrong. I wanted to congratulate Mr. Iron on a very pleasant compliment. This, too, proves that it is actually possible to speak in a very well-argued, very good discussion, regardless of party affiliation or faction or the wing where you sit in this Chamber. It was very exhilarating to hear. But what is the main point of today that we should all have understood? All of us in this Chamber, regardless of the party, regardless of the outlook or ideology, have acknowledged the problem and that we have to deal with it and Estonia has a role to play in resolving it. However, we also have to admit that there are facts that show how this problem can be tackled most effectively so that the church is in the middle of a village, so that the people we can help on the basis of our economic capacity are really helped, and that the help that has been done at the expense of the Estonian taxpayer goes where it must go, while our own society does not split up and there is no hysterical, extreme propaganda in the mass media, which is trying to make it clear to the public that people are sick, stupid and hostile. This solution can be found if all political parties recognise the facts in solving these problems. We see the mistakes of other countries, we see what is happening in Europe, and, above all, we are pursuing the interests of our people. We're based on what's in public and what's best for people. Secondary is how we help those in need, because here we have been elected by Estonian voters, not by Syrian voters, not by Eritrean voters, but by Estonians. Therefore, if we were to follow these clear basics, there would be no discussion about who is extremely hostile, who is a tolerant person or who is in favour of what. This would not be the case, we would not have a pointless waste of time, and we could deal with the following real problems. How to bring back 100000 emigrants who are economic refugees to Estonia? How to raise Estonia's age? Several times today, there were speeches that the demographic crisis has brought Europe to the brink of destruction. Yeah, it's true. However, we are again approaching solving the problem from the wrong side of Western Europe. We are thinking about how we can bring new taxpayers here from a foreign cultural space, a foreign dimension that is nowhere to fit into a new society, instead of focusing on how to motivate the rise of the disease. These are simple basics. If we take over the same rhetoric that has been implemented in Western Europe and Northern Europe for decades, we will soon face exactly the same problems as Sweden. It's as simple as that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U156	Honourable Riigikogu! There is one minute left to the end of the session. In that time, Henn Põlluaas would be able to come here, but he would hardly be able to say anything else. Let's have mercy on him. We'll finish the hearing and we'll continue tomorrow. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 1.59 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U157	But that's not all. Unlike what Kalle Palling repeatedly said, it's not complicated at all, it's just necessary to choose who side you're on. If we are tolerant of all the people of the world who have a problem, who are plagued by poverty or persecution, then we are intolerant of our own people. It is so simple: then we will be intolerant to our people. But we are not intolerant of our people; we are driven by love for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U158	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-13_U159	George Adams, please!
