ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Ministers! Good guests! Let's start the January 28th briefing. First, we'll do a presence check. 33 members of the Riigikogu have been registered in Question Time, 68 are missing. Today's Question Time will be attended by Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Social Protection Helmen Kütt and Foreign Minister Keit Pentus-Rosimannus.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U2	Let's get to today's questions. The first questioner is Kadri Simson, who asks Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas about taxes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U3	Thank you. Dear Taavi in the garment! Last Monday, Minister of Finance Maris Lauri and I discussed tax systems. The rumor remained that the Reform Party is against progressive income tax simply out of guts. You have no research to justify this opposition. In the autumn of last year, you also claimed that progressive income tax hampers economic growth. However, both the Czech Republic and Slovakia have already abandoned the tax system that we use a few years ago and returned to graduated income tax. Studies on tax systems have also been carried out in Europe. For example, a study was carried out at the Institute for Economic Research in Slovenia, which modeled the impact of different tax systems and tax rates on economic growth. This simulation showed that the changes to the tax system do not hinder economic development. What kind of research did you grant when you claimed that progressive income tax hampers economic growth?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U4	Thank you. The gradual income tax and higher taxation of people's service are quite certainly hampering economic growth. The fact that the size of labour taxes, including tax rates, has a fundamental impact on economic growth has been highlighted by the OECD, for example. The Secretary-General of this organisation is currently present in Estonia and I will present the OECD report with him in a few hours' time, which recommends, among other things, that Estonia reduce labour taxes. Just as my leading party has offered, and exactly as the current government has implemented in a little less than a year. For example, if a person learns to be a doctor, goes to the trouble of doing it, sometimes works more than the usual burden, but then the Centre Party says that the Estonian doctor's wages should be subject to a tax rate of 33%, I believe that not only the creation of jobs with economic growth and higher wages is hampered, but it is also very unfair from the point of view of doctors, for example. They've been working hard to acquire a specialty, they've been going to school for a long time, but you're telling them to take more money away from them as taxes. I believe that labour taxes should fall in Estonia in the coming years and in such a way that everyone in Estonia who goes to work, but also those who are of retirement age and who receive a pension, will reduce the tax burden and receive more money. This would also contribute to future growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U5	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U6	Thank you, dear Javier. The OECD you mentioned also recommended that we increase the progressiveness of the income tax system years ago, but for some reason our government reads the reports selectively. Those people who do full-time work in general, such as carers in hospitals, kindergarten educators, rescuers and very many other people who do the necessary work, who earn a small salary, are currently overcharged. Unfortunately, I must say that many of your claims have been taken from the ceiling. For example, the Reform Party has publicly stated that progressive income tax represents a typical socialist-communist mindset, resulting in a society in which everyone is more or less poor to live. We know that such a tax system exists in Finland, Sweden, Norway, in all the old countries of the European Union at all. Perhaps you could name those tiered income tax countries in which everyone is more or less lousy to live?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U7	Your proposed income tax rate of 33%, which almost doubles the tax burden on people, if you also take into account the tax-free minimum, is certainly not beneficial for any of the people working in the world. I myself have calculated the tax changes proposed by all political parties, as far as they are concerned, and I have come to the conclusion that the offer of the Centre Party is not the most favourable to any working person in Estonia. For all people who receive less than EUR 575, the most advantageous tax offer at present is that of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union, who have also moved to your delight, probably among those who support progressive income tax. It doesn't please me personally. For people who receive more than 575 euros, and I believe that all Estonian people should earn more than 575 euros, the IRL offer is more advantageous than the Reform Party's. For people who earn more than EUR 846, IRL's offer is harmful even compared to the current law. What you're saying is that people who work hard should be less burdened, that's right. But your tax offer, which increases the tax burden on some people, including doctors, to 33%, certainly does not match what you say. I therefore do not support your tax proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U8	Please, Kadri Simson, the second point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U9	Dear Taavi in the garment! I think you are also admitting that if a person earns EUR 2001 taxable income and the new tax rate for this euro starts at EUR 2 000, instead of the current 20 cents, has to pay 33 cents of income tax, this 13 cent does not make him poor. His income remains much higher than that of a colleague who, for example, earns 1900 euros. You talk all the time about the benefits of the current tax system, which gives gifts to the wealthiest, and how business-friendly our tax environment is, because we are failing to collect the classic corporate tax collected throughout the rest of Europe. Nevertheless, we do have entrepreneurs who take short-term credit from the Tax and Customs Board, i.e. they do not meet their obligations to the state by the deadline. One such prominent entrepreneur is Eerik-Niles Kross, a candidate for your political party's list, who does not pay taxes that are so favourable. What do you think of such entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U10	Thank you. All people engaged in entrepreneurship deserve recognition. If somebody's company was having a hard time, I wouldn't look at it if I were you. Businesses create jobs and pay taxes. If entrepreneurs are doing well, Estonian society can also do well. Indeed, in the tax system you are offering, this very sharp increase in the tax rate in the case of relatively high wages. However, this also concerns Estonian doctors, for example, in view of current salaries. Unlike you, I refuse to accept that Estonian doctors earn too much or that it would be fair to burden them with a higher level of taxation. Moreover, I would argue that if IT companies, such as Skype or TransferWise, which is Estonia's new success story, create jobs in Estonia with an average wage level exceeding 2 000 euros, this must be encouraged, rather than facing barriers that could cause these jobs to be created elsewhere. Only because, for example, TransferWise creates 100 high-wage jobs in Estonia can tax receipts grow in Estonia. Only because wages are very high in such companies can pensions grow. For example, let's look at this year. Tomorrow, the government will confirm the pension index, which will ensure a higher pension increase than the figure of 6.3% to date instead of 5.9%. This is not because the government has had a surge of generosity, but because wages have increased in Estonia, taxes have been better collected and unemployment has decreased. If higher-wage jobs are created in Estonia, this will also create the possibility of paying a better pension. So don't object to it, you're against a pension rise.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U11	Thank you. Now two issues registered on the spot. Interested people will probably be able to ask more questions at the end of Question Time. Please, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U12	Thank you very much. My question is about taxes and, above all, about taxpayers. For years, the Reform Party has been opposed to the creation of a livelihood fund. One of the reasons for this has been the opinion of the Reform Party that payments from a maintenance fund, i.e. monthly maintenance payments for a child, are not an honest use of taxpayers' money. Yesterday, the Riigikogu adopted with 61 votes in this very hall the decision initiated by the IRL that the maintenance fund should be launched from 1 January 2016 and proposed to the government about it. My question is whether, as your Prime Minister, this Riigikogu decision will be implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U13	Thank you. I believe that all Estonian people have reason to support the Reform Party so that I can continue as Prime Minister and implement this initiative and do many more important things for Estonia's benefit. I, like you, have a job interview on March 1st. I have worked quite hard to gain the trust of the people of Estonia, and I intend to continue this work with my heart if the people of Estonia give me the opportunity to do so. As far as this particular issue is concerned, this proposal, which in itself is good enough for a debate initiative, you have advertised as a ready solution. I think you went too far with this and gave people too much hope too soon. There is still a lot of work to be done to make this work. The proposal itself will not solve any single parent problem. In my opinion, we should take the economic situation of single parents much more seriously. It is not enough simply to make such grand statements before the elections. We need to see how we can really help these people, how we can move forward from this proposal and ensure that we really get this money from every one of our children and any other person who does not respect their parents. This is a key issue and the essence of this problem. Just, let's say, populist statements don't solve this problem. We must take this much more seriously than has been done so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U14	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The news came today that Estonia has risen to a pretty high level in the Heritage Foundation's index of economic freedom, and only recently was the news that we are high on the OECD tax comparison. This is not just an abstract place on the chart, but it is also a reality that people perceive. Even if the government reported a change in the pension index, there should be a direct link to the tax system and tax receipts. Can you tell us how we're even in the situation with tax receipts right now? Last year, even in a modest economic environment, there was a slight overshoot. Could the budgetary position last year not be better than we have thought so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U16	Thank you. There were a number of issues. But indeed news came that Estonia has risen to the eighth place among all countries of the world in the world's index of economic freedom. In the European Union, Estonia is the most attractive country with a business environment. Not only do I, the pride in voice, as Prime Minister of this country, say this, but the Heritage Foundation, which is indeed a very respected fund, whose analyses are also closely monitored by investors. If investors observe and see that Estonia is the most attractive country in the European Union with an entrepreneurial environment, and if they happen to know that Estonia has e-residency and very good e-services and many other things, then, believe me, this gives a huge opportunity for them to invest in the Estonian economy and create viable jobs here. If viable jobs are created, I hope that the Centre Party will not be able to block it at very high tax rates, then there will also be tax revenue that can be used to pay social benefits. This will also benefit pensioners, for example, whose pension depends precisely on how much they receive and how much social tax they receive. Your question was about the collection of taxes. Indeed, despite the fact that in the spring the opposition called for a cut in the government's budget for the previous year, we now know that, overall for 11 months, the state budget was in surplus with 0.65% of GDP. There is reason to believe that the government sector will end last year with a small budget surplus. So much for the criticism that I should have cut back. As you can see, it would have been premature and very wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U17	Thank you very much. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U18	Let's go to the next subject. Mr Tsahkna will put the question to the Minister for Social Protection, Helmen Hunt. Social protection is the subject. Please, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U19	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the possible results of a decision by a maintenance fund. This decision was made by the Riigikogu here yesterday with 61 votes. After all, the Prime Minister made it quite clear that if he continues as Prime Minister, he does not intend to take very seriously this decision of the Riigikogu, which was adopted here with 61 votes yesterday, because it is a populist decision made before the elections. I will ask you, as Minister for Social Protection, a completely personal question. I'm interested in your own opinion on this. As Minister for Social Protection, do you agree with the Prime Minister's view that this is a populist decision adopted in the Riigikogu, or do you think that this is actually a serious decision that deserves to be implemented on 1 January 2016?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U20	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I have to apologize because I have a voice down, but I can still answer. I was sitting next to the Prime Minister, and I must say that I did not hear the Prime Minister say that he would not intend to comply with this decision if the people gave him the authority to do so. Personally, I can say that all decisions taken in the Chamber of the Riigikogu are for the government to comply with. If I should regain the public's trust and I will continue as Minister for Social Protection, then the Ministry of Social Affairs will definitely work on this. Regardless of who is in this position, the decisions taken by the Riigikogu are for everyone to comply. As far as the support fund is concerned, we must not forget that it is about children. It must be everyone's responsibility to promote their well-being.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U21	Please, Margus Tsahkna, the first point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U22	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you for your reply. The decisions taken by the Riigikogu are also taken by the IRL and I personally take very seriously. I was moved to ask the Prime Minister, as well as you, what is common, that the government does not intend to consider the decision to set up a support fund in Parliament with 61 votes to be binding. The Prime Minister's answer to my question, frankly, deepened this doubt because he called the decision to set up a support fund adopted in the Riigikogu populist. I will ask you once more as Minister for Social Protection. Do you consider the decision taken by Parliament to be binding on the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U23	Thank you very much. It's probably only in this house. We went to the Ministry of Social Affairs yesterday after the decision was taken to discuss how and what principles to set up such a fund, which should be taken into account here, and how this money would reach the children. I'm sure the Ministry of Social Affairs is taking this very seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U24	Thank you. Please, Margus Tsahkna, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U25	Thank you. I would not like to continue with the political debate, but I would like to ask you as an expert. How do you actually assess the impact of the decision that was taken here yesterday at the initiative of the IRL? I am thinking in particular of the impact on the children of single parents, i.e. the impact of the draft maintenance fund, in the sense that, on the one hand, child maintenance payments are guaranteed every month and, on the other hand, they are levied on debtors. I know that a Green Paper has been adopted under your leadership, which also addresses the situation of single parent children. Is this impact large enough for the decision to set up a maintenance fund to take effect from 1 January 2016? Does this help these children?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U26	Thank you for your question. As stated very clearly in the Green Paper, in the most difficult situation, the parents raising a child alone are not enough for single parents and, as we heard yesterday at a public hearing, whose child is not paid for by another parent, or mother, or father. I think that children who live below the poverty line or in relative poverty need urgent intervention. As was pointed out yesterday at the public hearing, ten years have been spoken about this subject, but no clear solutions have been found. It is true that child support, which has risen since 1 January, will certainly ease the situation a little, but children do not have much time to wait; they will grow up before they do. Those who grow in poverty are at risk of re-entering this poverty cycle, as their education of interest remains inadequate, etc. I consider it very important to get children out of poverty first and foremost.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U27	Thank you. Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Siret Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U28	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, From 1 January this year, the income tax rate decreased from 21% to 20%. At the same time, pension income tax is already slightly higher than the average pension, as government steam has gone to a reduction in the rate of income tax. What is your personal opinion? Does it seem fair to you that a $375 pension is already taxed on income tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U29	Thank you for your question. First of all, I must point out that, if in 2014, there was a pension of up to EUR 354 free of income tax, this year this amount will be EUR 374, i.e. an increase of EUR 20. The steam of the government has not gone down to a 1% reduction in the rate of income tax, but certainly also to an increase in the rateable pension. When discussing whether the taxable amount is high or correct, you could look at the minimum wage, which is 390 euros from 2015 and from which taxes are deducted. Both pensions and minimum wages could always be higher, so that people can do better. However, the fact that the income tax rate on pensions has also increased by 20 euros over the year is positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U30	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U31	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. There is currently a situation in Estonia where, for example, a person earning a minimum wage must work for three years to receive a one-year letter in the pension account. This system was introduced when the Minister of Social Affairs was your party partner, now Speaker Eiki Nestor. I don't think such a system is very fair. I hope you agree with me. Do you share my view that such a system is not correct? If you share, I ask why, as a minister, you have not proposed to the government that it be changed. Or has the Reform Party opposed it and it is necessary to wait for the Central Party and the Soviet government?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U32	Thank you, good questioner! First, in the interests of accuracy and honesty, I must correct two mistakes. First of all, a person does not have to work for three years to receive a letter of one year's service. Each year of service gives one year of service. The point is that the pension consists of three components: the base part, the qualifying share and the share of the pension, which we are now going to name correctly. The fact that a person has to work three years to get one year's letter is not true. The fact that the pension depends on the salary is true. My second amendment is that Eiki Nestor was then a member of the Riigikogu when it was decided, and he was the only one who was impartial or did not vote. It's in the verbatim, I'm not going to talk about it anymore, everyone can watch for themselves. Pensions are a very serious issue, so the current government, in particular the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, is doing an analysis, which is also being presented more widely. After all, we know what the number of pensioners is now and what the number of people receiving pensions will be in 20 years' time. In 1999, this system was changed and the part that depends on salary was added. Now, the situation is that the reason why the pension is small is low. The minimum wage is low, the average wage comes from a monetary value and is around 0.3. I'll give you an example. If you work your life on an average salary and I work on a minimum wage, I'll have to work three times as cheap as you. But when we retire, the difference between you and my pension is double.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U33	Thank you. Let us close the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U34	Let's go to the next question. Andres Herkel is asking Prime Minister Taavi Clothe about the external threat and security situation. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U35	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! I think we have a fairly similar understanding of what is happening in Ukraine and Russia in terms of value. But organisations of soft values probably have no impact on Russia. We are concerned about the plan for modernising the armed forces there, which, in commenting on recently, the commander of the United States' European army found that it will be a few years and that Russia will be able to perform several operations on a scale like that in Ukraine at the same time. We share promises here and there before the elections, but the security situation may become even more tense. What's our backup plan in case there's a threat? What steps in internal security and national defence are we prepared to take? Can there be an increase in defence costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U36	Thank you. I apologise for the fact that, in answer to such an important question, I am going to devote some time to the fact that I am going to break Margus Tsahkna's false statement. He claimed that I had called the Riigikogu's decision populism. No, that's not true. I'll push it over unambiguously. I called populism Margus Tsahkna's statements on this subject. But I apologize again, because your question is really very important. Indeed, there have also been reorganization of our units in the vicinity of our borders. We see very worrying signals and therefore we must be prepared to defend ourselves in the best possible way. Most importantly, our protection will continue to be based on two equal pillars. First of all, our independent defenses. I will say quickly, yes, it is also possible to spend more than 2%, but this year we will not spend much, but we will be spending more than 2%. Secondly, our alliance with NATO, which means not only allied relations in military terms, but also political relations with our most important allies, embracing and expanding NATO's presence here. If you answer within the time limit as specifically as possible, what we can do in order to improve Estonia's defence and deterrence capabilities as much as possible in the shortest possible time, then I say that the key is definitely in the more permanent and more extensive presence of our allies. Besides NATO fighter planes and one company in the United States, which is already present in Estonia, we wish to see both the prelocation of military equipment and the larger units here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U37	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U38	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! Protection begins largely with border guards. Admiral Kõuts and other former border guards and their thinkers have initiated a collective appeal to the Riigikogu, proposing the restoration of the border guard as an independent organisation. We are in an accident situation because the Committee on Legal Affairs has not yet discussed it, but the work of the Riigikogu is about to end. As Prime Minister, you are certainly familiar with the content of this appeal. How do you assess the proposals that have been made there? Are you also prepared to critically review what happened in your time with the establishment of a unified Police and Border Guard Board? Has it been effective enough? Rather, it has been the subject of criticism.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U39	Thank you. It is certainly in the interests of the Republic of Estonia to have as strong a border guard as possible. I understand, in a sense, nostalgia from former border guards. The system that operated differently in their time certainly seems cuter than the current much more up-to-date border management. However, I cannot accept that the Estonian border would be better guarded if we split up the Police and Border Guard Board or went back in time to build up the border guard for nine to ten years. Right now, we have more people on the eastern border than special forces. If you don't take into account the newly created special forces, we have just as many people there as we used to be. I'm saying their equipment and capabilities have improved over time. We build much better housing conditions for the good men and women who work on our eastern border. Let the construction of the Piusa cordon, which began this year, be an important example. Piusa's cordon is one of the largest cordons that the border guards themselves call the umbilical cordon. If border guards have suitable premises and technical capabilities have developed, this will certainly help them to do much better in their work. Even better it will help to guard our border and protect the Republic of Estonia if we build the border properly throughout the border line. I am thinking not only of the garden, which is also important, but of the most modern technical equipment that sends signals to these most modern cordons and helps border guards to do their job more effectively. This will help the border guards move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U40	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! Lithuania, a country very close to us and in a situation similar to ours, recently published on nearly a hundred pages the Ministry of Defence's guidelines for action in the event of war and emergency, specifically for residents, civil opposition organisations. Unfortunately, this document is in Lithuanian. I don't have a full translation of it, but there's some kind of overview. It deals with operations under hybrid war conditions. It sounds pretty threatening that you have to be prepared for things like this. How do you assess whether Estonia needs something similar or whether it is in some sense overreacting? Personally, I don't think that's overreacting. Are we done the same way?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U42	Thank you. Are we done the same way? I dare say that we are much better prepared because we have contributed to the protection of the Estonian state for many years, long before I became Prime Minister of the Republic. We have contributed considerably more for many years than many neighbouring countries. Without wanting to criticise neighbouring countries, the fact is that in the 2014 budget, Estonia's defence expenditure was higher as absolute values than, for example, Latvia and Lithuania, which are both bigger countries than us. But I am pleased that they have decided to start increasing their defence costs quickly. If you are asking about a direct military threat, I would argue that the risk of a direct military threat is not so high that we should start practicing people living in war conditions. Estonia is a member of NATO, just as Latvia is a member of NATO, just as Lithuania is a member of NATO. Narva, the good members of the Riigikogu, is just as much NATO as New York. If anyone is trying to create a conflict with NATO, it is obviously a suicidal decision. It is, of course, up to us to make sure that NATO is present not only in words but also in reality on the territory of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and other allies, so that NATO is well-prepared enough to confront any aggressor with us. If we are very well prepared for this, it is the most secure guarantee that we will never really need to use our preparation in practice. That's the whole point of deterrence.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U43	Thank you very much. Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U44	Thank you. Prime Minister! I would have liked to have asked my question to the Minister for Social Protection, but I hope that you will admit that public health and people's risk behaviour can also be considered on par with internal security as an important issue. My question is about alcohol policy. A year ago, a Green Paper on alcohol policy was between the covers, which was a national document with a very broad consensus. To date, only changes in excise duty have been implemented, and no other steps can be seen. Can you tell us what it is stuck behind or what steps are at least being prepared to be put into practice? If we still kill ourselves as a nation, then there is no point in talking about security.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U45	Thank you. As a replacement for the Minister for Social Protection and, in fact, as a member of the Minister for Social Affairs, I can probably answer that question. Under my leadership, this Green Paper in the previous government, where we worked with the IRL, was adopted. We have already declared at the beginning of the current government's work that we will continue to deal with these plans, which at the time are not yet ready as decisions, but as a thought for consideration, this Green Paper in the slang of the European Union means that it was put on the table. We will move forward and step by step look for ways to become more specific. Apart from prevention policy and a number of very specific things that have been done, we can talk about excise policy, which you yourself have mentioned. I understand that Estonian alcohol producers have greatly criticised the government for having increased excise duties. They've even said it came unexpectedly to them. Let it be said that I do not see the possibility that excise duty on alcohol will not grow in the future. If alcohol excises do not increase, but people's pay levels increase, the bottles of vodka will become more and more available in the store. That, in my opinion, does not make sense. Therefore, I believe that, if anything is predictable, the excise duty on alcohol must also rise in the future. I think this is one of the very few tax policy issues where there is, in fact, mutual understanding between all political parties. We all understand that alcohol must not become relatively cheaper at the store. I therefore believe that alcohol producers also understand that there is no point in disappointing when the government is pursuing a long-term alcohol policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U46	Thank you. Viktor Vassilyev asks the second question registered on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U47	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister! Our defence forces are good, weapons are modern, men are highly valued in every corner of the world where the Americans fight for oil. But what is the state of the system that should ensure the safety of the civilian population if something happens? Finns, for example, have a civil defence system more or less the same as it once was in the Soviet Union: there are shelters, teams and equipment, and people know more or less where they have to go when they are in danger. We don't know anything. If there's a system like this, it's highly classified. I don't know why we don't have that kind of information. Would you provide information on the state of the systems guaranteeing the protection of civilians? They are necessary in a war situation, but also when disasters occur, such as exploding tanks in an accident factory. Anything can happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U48	Thank you. I don't quite share your nostalgia that in Soviet times everything was wonderful in this area. I'm not quite sure these cotton masks would have actually protected against anything. At least there was a system on paper in Soviet times, but unlike you, I wouldn't be practicing this Soviet nostalgia here. The fact that national defence is a broader concept than direct military defence is a fact. This means that every member of the Riigikogu, every citizen, doctor, teacher, has a role to play in thinking about what to do so that the state of Estonia can be better protected. I am very upset about only one thing during this whole election debate over the last few months. I'm upset when it's said that security is not the main issue, it's some kind of outsider, let the people who wear the uniform handle it. I think it's as wrong as it gets. Each of us needs to think about how to better protect the country. This is not because we necessarily want to prepare for war. On the contrary, only if we are as prepared for protection as possible can we be sure that no one will ever even think of attacking us. Only in this way can we be sure that our country will continue to be independent.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U49	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue. Two people have been able to ask on the spot, and then maybe there's a free microphone.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U50	Let's go to the next question. Peeter Laurson is asking Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas about the warm economy. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U51	Prime Minister! The government's policy is to eliminate the possibility for domestic consumers to use specially labelled fuel oil. The price of fuel oil will therefore rise by 50% this year after the Riigikogu elections. With an additional excise duty on fuel oil, the government wants to fill the Treasury. Due to the location of the Estonian state, heating living and working spaces is a vital act in Estonia. Why is the government filling the Treasury with excise duty on one of the vital types of domestic heating?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U52	Thank you. First of all, I would point out that there are significantly fewer households heating with light fuel oil or specially labelled diesel than households using other types of heating. So please do not be so general as to increase the price of heating for households. I'm sure by saying that you're scaring people. It is also worth remembering that reducing the use of specially labelled fuel as a fuel type is actually a longer-term plan and has been supported by the IRL in the past. The phasing-out of special-marked fuel was also planned by the previous government that dealt with it. But the truth is that heating your house with specially labelled fuel or light fuel oil is even now, when the price of oil is very low, one of the most expensive types of heating in order not to say the most expensive, and it is also one of the most polluting types of heating. Either way, it's a big problem for people. We understand that they have probably chosen this type of heating years ago when specially labelled fuel heating seemed favorable, but now it is no longer favourable. In order to help people heat their homes more favourably, we have developed a concrete measure that is already running from the end of last year. I know that a lot of people have applied for this. This measure compensates people for 40% of the costs associated with the replacement of the boiler. I am also familiar with a number of improvements myself and convinced that if you switch from the use of light fuel oil to another type of heating, your participation will pay off in two or three years or four, depending on the type of heating you choose.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U53	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U54	The loss of special-marked fuel also puts day-care centres, schools and other municipal facilities at risk from households. Why is there still a need to tax specially labelled fuel ex post? Why is it absolutely necessary to measure and tax the fuel that is in the hands of the buyer?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U55	Thank you. This argument that this change also concerns kindergartens and schools is not accurate. I would ask you to fill yourself in more detail on this matter. This change concerns households, who are very expensive to heat with specially labelled fuel and whom we are helping to switch to a more favourable and environmentally friendly form of heating through the KredEx measure. Your question concerned an issue that is currently under discussion in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I am not the one who has to report to you here in the Riigikogu what you decide, but my personal position is that there should be no pumping out, overmeasurement and payment of excise duty. I don't think that makes any sense. The general principle of the Estonian tax system is that we do not make things difficult. I am honestly saying that I cannot imagine households pumping fuel out of the tank at the end of the heating period, measuring it by the eye, and then declaring excise duty somehow. I believe that most people do not even know where to declare this excise duty on fuel, because that is not what they do every day. Frankly, I don't think they should be dealing with this. So I very much hope to the wisdom of the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu that this point in the law will either be abolished or a solution will be found that is favourable to households. That doesn't make sense to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U56	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U57	I'm afraid you're misinformed. Your own party associates are very much in favour of this over-measurement and ex-post taxation. But that's it. What domestic costs does the Reform Party still intend to charge excise duty to the Treasury as much as it has taxed light fuel oil?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U58	Thank you. I dare say that your information on the position of the members of the Reform Party is incorrect, but God is with him. Pre-election time, let all claims remain on your conscience. But the question was, what are the reform party's plans for people's home expenses? We are not populists enough to walk around with a poster and to claim that we are influencing home expenses and the price of oil. It would be wrong, it wouldn't be fair. However, in our opinion, it is very important to ensure that Estonia is connected to other countries in terms of both electricity and gas connections, which, less sloganically and much more strategically, ensures that long-term price levels are lower and monopolies do not have the opportunity to increase prices. It works ten times better than any law against monopolies. The fact that we are connected to Finland with the Estlink cable has already reduced the price of electricity in Estonia. That's a fact. If we didn't have those cables, the price of electricity would be much higher. Secondly, if we create a gas pipeline for the same connection, against which the IRL has been opposed at different times, or for which it has said that it is not primary, that this problem should be resolved in a completely different way, then we will have the assurance that we are guaranteed at least significantly better gas supply than we are now. This, in turn, has a positive impact on the fact that there can be no monopolistic price pressure that is currently coming from Russia. These are the things that affect domestic consumers the most. I'm sure there's still a chance. I believe that these connections, if we speak strategically, are certainly the most important.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U59	Thank you. Now let's go to the issues registered on the ground. Two questions. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U60	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! You commended the good income from the state budget and the very good tax policy of the Reform Party. There is no way to praise a tax policy in which money is taken away from the poorest people and from domestic consumers. For example, in Latvia, the electricity excise duty is four times lower than in Estonia; in Finland, the value added tax on food is half lower than in Estonia. It is a fact that electricity, water and toilets are 1.65 times more expensive in Estonia than in Finland. Is it right for the government to fill the state budget out of these people's pockets? These costs could be the same as those of Finns whose wages are three or four times those of our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U61	Thank you. Your claim that Latvia has lower excise duties on electricity may be correct. But if you look at the price of electricity on the consumer's electricity bill, you will notice that the price of electricity in Latvia is considerably higher than in Estonia. You have probably even calculated that excise duty accounts for a few percent of the electricity bill, a relatively modest proportion, but more importantly, how high the price of electricity is. The price of electricity, in turn, is most affected by the fact that Estonia is already very well connected to other markets, unlike Latvia. This must also be set as a target in Latvia. The Latvian Government has made this its goal, and Estonia can also contribute here, because one country with which they want to unite is Estonia. If the price level of Estonia and Latvia is uniform, then the price of electricity will definitely fall in Latvia. You say that tax policy is not fair as it is. I'm saying the opposite. If you want to tax the sums earned by people much higher, as the Central Party's offer has been, it will not only reduce the income of the individual people who have to pay the higher tax, but it will also reduce the revenue from the state budget, because it is simply this country that will no longer create high-paid jobs. If the revenue from the state budget is reduced, such as the collection of social tax, pensions cannot rise so quickly. My recommendation is to think very carefully before you start criticising the tax system, which, yes, as you rightly said, has brought much more money into the budget than the forecast, which also allows pensions to rise much faster than predicted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U62	Thank you. Please ask another locally registered question, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You have very good and clear answers to every question. I'm gonna go check it out. For example, five years ago, man invested in an oil boiler. I recall that the price of an oil boiler at the time of the kroon was about 75,000 kroons. Investments in heating systems usually take 20 years into account. But if it is not possible to switch to a gas boiler at a certain location, such as in Central Estonia Viljandi, what is your proposal for those people who put in a domestic oil heating system five or ten years ago? Let it be said that pellet boilers require a space of at least 2,500 feet [2.5 m] high and cannot be placed in the basement. What's the solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U64	Thank you. First of all, of course, I would like to thank you for giving me a very clear answer. But to expect me to be able to give a heating-economic recommendation from the Riigikogu that would fit any household like a fist in the eyehole would perhaps be an exaggeration. But really, what are these possibilities? We can pass them quickly. Oil heating is currently inevitably a very expensive form of heating. So no matter what it is exchanged for, either gas, pellet or geothermal heating, or instead air-water-heat pump, it can be assumed that the alternative is cheaper, in some cases even several times cheaper. Which particular type of heating is suitable for a particular household depends on a number of factors. As you rightly said yourself, gas heating is certainly a very considerable alternative, because the investment cost is the lowest and rethinking, I think, obviously pays off in a very short time. If in a long time exactly, it depends on the size of the house, it is once again very difficult to say in a universal way. In the case of pellets, the initial investment is similarly relatively more advantageous, while, as you rightly pointed out, it requires a separate space and requires the charging of granules, so it may not necessarily be the best solution for everyone. The third option is geothermal heating, which cannot be used by all, but the part has, depending on the size of the plot. The fourth option is an air-water-heat pump, which should be technically possible for everyone, but whose initial investment is relatively more expensive. The KredEx measure, which will pay up to 40% of the investment, will help to make it seem economically reasonable for the family in Viljandi, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U65	Thank you. In order to ensure that all questioners have equal opportunities, we will limit ourselves to two issues registered on the ground. I shall close the debate on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U66	Now, however, questions can be asked from the table. Please also name who the question is meant for! Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U67	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! I hope you will also answer the question in the future. I specifically asked you about Finnish VAT, which is twice as lower than in Estonia, and about the fact that water, electricity and room temperature are 1.65 times more expensive in Estonia than in Finland. Do you think it's okay that you fill the state budget like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U68	Thank you. Ireland has a zero rate of VAT on food products. However, we know that Ireland has, if not the highest, one of the highest food prices. Much more than the VAT rate, food prices depend on the size of the specific market, the competitive situation and the ability of local suppliers and their capacities. So to claim that food in Finland is more favourable than Estonia because there is a lower VAT rate, it is certainly not accurate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U69	Please, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U70	Thank you. My question is to the Prime Minister. Indeed, during the election campaign, I would also recommend that you engage in the work of the Prime Minister and get acquainted with the decision of the Riigikogu, which was adopted yesterday. It is a decision on a support fund, and it states very precisely what was proposed to the Government of the Republic. There is no special opportunity to come up with any other measures. I will read this decision in writing: 'To propose to the Government of the Republic to develop and implement by 1 January 2016 a system of guaranteeing maintenance payments, which will ensure that child maintenance payments are received on time. The system must include the establishment of a national institution that pays a parent raising a child a minimum of maintenance calculated in time and requires a parent holding a maintenance obligation to make a living. ' This is a very specific proposal. I'm asking you as Prime Minister. Will you, at least as long as you are Prime Minister, intend to implement the Riigikogu decision or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U71	Thank you. Without exception, all decisions of the Riigikogu are mandatory for the government; it is not even possible to open any debate. But I'm glad you're back in the hall now, and I can tell you directly what I said before. Do not put sentences in my mouth like you used to question the Minister of Social Protection earlier, as if I had said about the Riigikogu's decision that it was populist. I didn't say anything like that. I have said that your statements have been populist, which have led to the adoption of this particular decision. What do I see as populist? You have said that this will completely solve all the problems. We know, however, that you have assigned the task of creating a system. The creation of the system certainly requires very serious work and effort; it does not happen by itself. My concern is simply that you give hope that the problem will be resolved very quickly, although you have not actually proposed a ready-made system. Single parents' problems are very serious, they need to be dealt with. It is not quite the kind of thing that we raise the issue two weeks before the elections and then say that we push it to someone else's problem and work out what the other one has to do. Everyone must be prepared to contribute and also to offer real substantive solutions. It was my complaint why I said that your statements have been populist. I certainly did not say that about a specific decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U72	Thank you very much. Let's finish Question Time because there is no time to open up the next topic. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U73	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the third Wednesday session of the IXth plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. No drafts or requests for information are recommended. We're gonna do a presence check. 69 members of the Riigikogu have been registered and 32 members are missing. I will clarify today's agenda. First of all, today's 23rd item, the draft law amending the Name Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, will be presented on behalf of the initiators by Minister of Finance Maris Lauri. Ladies and gentlemen, there is too much buzz in the hall! Secondly, it is to be announced that yesterday we were in the process of asking questions to the rapporteur at second reading of draft Act 731 amending the law on termination of pregnancy and sterilization initiated by the Committee on Social Affairs. Yesterday Priit Sibul, Erki Arrow, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, Andrus Saare and Tarmo Tamm registered the request. This is where we will continue to work today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U74	Firstly, we will continue to read the second reading of Bill 731 of the Social Affairs Committee's draft law on termination of pregnancy and amendment of the Act on sterilization. I would like to ask the Chair of the Social Affairs Committee, Heljo Pikhof, to answer the questions. Priit Onion, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! How big is this problem assessed? I've come to understand that they're trying to solve a few difficult cases. How many are there, and why are we trying to reverse the existing norm?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U76	Unfortunately, you did not attend all the meetings of the Social Affairs Committee and you do not know what women's doctors have told us. The Commission has come to the conclusion that only individual cases should be dealt with. Actually, there are cases, but there are few. These are cases where the child cannot invite the parent to make a decision because their relationship is a mess, either because the parent is an alcoholic, or because there are violent problems, etc. There aren't many cases, but the doctor can't make an exception, he can't break the law. It is very clear that there have been cases in the Commission where there has been a fetal malformation, that the child has been an incest victim or whatever, the doctor has seen it and should have been in the child's best interests, but he cannot do so now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U77	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U78	Thank you. Honourable waitress! My question is to you as Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. Did you discuss the illogicality of this matter in the committee? If you were discussing this, why aren't we discussing different things in parallel? We are now discussing abortion, which, I understand that, you think, is one of the most innocent medical procedures for children at all. At the same time, however, minors must obtain parental consent for dental care, vaccination or any medical service. Didn't you come up with this absurd situation? If we solve one problem, why don't we solve the other absurd problems in parallel?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U79	Thank you for your question. We discussed the right to self-determination of minors when it comes to pregnant women or abortions. Unfortunately, this right is currently limited. We didn't get to discuss the other health services you gave us, for example, which require the consent of the parent. This is the area of another law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U80	Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U81	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask you about this draft procedure. When the amendments were examined, a situation arose within the Commission where the amendments were first voted on and their wordings differed significantly in substance and form were confirmed at the next meeting of the Commission. Do you consider this legitimate?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U82	One question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U83	Secondly, there are no arguments against the proposals of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association, for example. Does not good legislative practice provide that there should also be arguments for rejecting proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U84	I'm sorry! Before you answer, I'll intervene. Ladies and gentlemen, please respect the questioner and the answerr. There's an incredibly loud noise in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U85	Thank you for your question. We really had a couple of points that we voted again at the next Commission meeting. This meant that these points were slightly changed in terms of content.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U86	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island! Andrus Island is not here. Well, he can't ask. Please, the next questioner! Andrus Island microphone can be switched off. Please, Priit Onion, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Is there no conflict between the Chancellor of Justice's analysis of 2009 and the will behind this draft? The Chancellor of Justice began his own-initiative analysis of the case in Räpina in 2009, where a boy had treated his teeth without informing his parents. The Chancellor of Justice concluded that when healthcare is provided at school, the consent of the parent must be given each time. However, this draft does not even consider it necessary to inform parents. However, is there no contradiction in the understanding of the Chancellor of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U88	I don't think I'm the best person here to judge. But I can say what he has said in the proposal 'Disruption restrictions related to a minor': 'As a result of the analysis, I find that § 5 (2) of the Abortion and Sterilization Act is in so far as it prohibits the termination of a minor's pregnancy without the consent of his legal representative or, if the legal representative does not agree, against the permission of the court, contrary to the Constitution, because it limits disproportionately the right of a woman under the age of 18 to self-determination by making her overly dependent on her parents or guardian. Nor does this limit guarantee a minor's rights to privacy and health protection. If a woman under 18 wishes to terminate a pregnancy safely and without dedicating parents or guardians, the consent clause prevents her from doing so. It is not possible to take into account the degree of maturity of the minor or to consider whether it would be in his or her interest to involve a legal representative. ' But now for the case you were talking about. I don't know what age we're talking about here. After all, according to the Law of Obligations Act, if a health professional has established that a minor is mature to give informed consent, then it is not necessarily necessary to involve his or her legal representative, or parent. That's why these dental and other cases are kind of freaking me out.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U89	Thank you. Please, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U90	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! As a liberal, I am of the opinion that, if there is a right to decide, there must be a right and a duty to take responsibility, in this case, to take these decisions itself, if this act has been authorised. But I have a legal theoretic question. If the current situation requires coordination with parents, this is a 'bottom-up approach', can, for example, under the current law, parents come under pressure to carry out such a process? Can parents require a minor to have an abortion?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U91	Thank you. That's a good question. In fact, we want to reverse the situation that existed in 2009, which was based on the debt law law that was in force at the time. It was clearly stated that if a doctor sees that a parent's decision is manifestly contrary to a minor's decision, the doctor must be guided by the minor's decision. It's not like a doctor is working against him. But now it is often the case that when a parent says that a child has to have an abortion and a child says no, it is necessary to go to court. But how does the court give one right, i.e. deciding that one can have an abortion and the other can't? On what basis is he doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U92	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U93	Thank you. Good answer! Is it not strange that, as chairman of the committee, you will answer Priit Sibula's question that you are not competent to answer? You could have been appointed by the Commission to answer these questions on the basis of a person who has made this matter clear to himself. But I'll come back to my original question. In the near future, are there plans to discuss such legislative changes, so that all minor medical procedures can be decided by the minor himself? Let's have a look at the injection. A lot of parents aren't willing to give their kids protection shots, but do you think that's what they'd like to do? Are you planning on coming up with new legislative changes or not? Thank you. It's...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U94	After the thank you, they usually turn off the microphone, count on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U95	Thank you for your question. The Law of Obligations Act is currently in force, which also regulates protection attacks, etc. It's all clear. We certainly do not come to this in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U96	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U97	Thank you. I will continue on this issue of the clarity of the Law of Obligations Act. Amendments 6 and 14 contradict the text and explanatory memorandum in both cases. Amendment 6 states that an adult will be involved if necessary, but the explanatory memorandum states that it must be included. Amendment 14 on the contrary: the text of the law says that it must, and the explanatory memorandum states that if necessary. Explain to parents simply and clearly when they will be closely involved in the minor's health and operations and when they will not.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U98	I'll tell you more. Patients with reduced capacity shall be provided with health care with the consent of the patient to the extent that the patient is able to consider the pros and cons in a responsible manner. According to § 766 (4) of the Law of Obligations Act. A healthcare professional is obliged to assess whether a person with reduced capacity is sufficiently responsible to give informed consent to the termination of his or her pregnancy. If the incapacitated person is able to give informed consent to the termination of his or her pregnancy, it is not justified to require the consent of an additional legal representative. This is a general rule for the provision of health services. But we also have a clause here that, in any case, the doctor will talk to the minor about the need to involve an adult in the decision-making process. If the incapacitated person, i.e. a minor, is not mature for a decision, then the adult person will certainly be involved. This is still the case in the Law of Obligations Act. The Law of Obligations Act includes a 'legal representative'. When we discussed this issue in the Commission, we found that, in special cases, we could talk about either a social worker or a grandmother, an older sister or a brother with whom the child actually lives. An example is a child who grows in a substitute home and has not been deprived of parental rights from his or her parent. The parent is an alcoholic, and it's not known when he's coming out of this, let's say, cycle, but there's a certain limit when a pregnancy is interrupted. Similarly, a child may be a victim of human trafficking, as you repeatedly emphasised in the Commission, or an incest victim. Parents can be violent, there may be either mental or physical violence at home. In such a case, there could be another adult person with the child instead of the parent at the time of the decision. In any case, if that third party gives its consent, which is manifestly contrary to the interests of the child, the doctor may not follow it. Once again, I stress that this is a general rule for the provision of health services.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U99	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U100	Thank you. Good waitress! We're talking about a disagreement between a child and a parent. This is the court's verdict, but you, like, questioned the court's ability to make that verdict. You asked why the court would decide. I'm still in the belief that the court will consider all kinds of arguments and listen to experts if necessary. Now you want it to be decided solely by a gynecologist during the admissions. On what basis should a gynecologist decide?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U101	Thank you for your question. I'm a lawyer myself. Indeed, the judges themselves have said that it is difficult for them to make a decision in which case to authorise abortion, in which case not. It is on the basis of the argument that in this process, the parent is in any case stronger and the child is weaker. There's nothing to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U102	Thank you. Please, Kalle Palling, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U103	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you a second time because I didn't get a pretty accurate answer before. So what's the status quo? Let me give you an example to illustrate. In fact, last year Ilmar Raag's film 'Kertu', which had a similar situation that his father demanded his child to have an abortion, gained a lot of popularity. According to the law in force, has "Kertu" been a legitimate scene? Is this a requirement under the current regime, regardless of whether the child is opposed to abortion or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U104	The current law says that consent to abortion is required if a young person wishes to do so. Similarly, there should be consent for giving birth. It seems somewhat strange, for no one can be forced to have an abortion or give birth against their will. Of course, parents have an influence on their children, and that can ultimately work. That is why it is very important that the child also has a say in this process.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U105	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U106	Thank you. Good waitress! I also, unfortunately, did not get an answer to my first question. You confirmed once again that you believe that the court is not able to make the right decision and that there are no grounds for doing so. You indicated that it is often in the favor of an elder, who is a stronger side, who tends to lean into the scales. Now you want to change it so that the decision is made by a gynecologist alone. On what basis does a gynecologist decide?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U107	We do not want to change it so that the gynecologist alone decides. When we talk about the provision of healthcare to a minor, there is a general rule. This rule says you need the consent of a legal representative. However, if the doctor sees that the operation or any procedure is clearly contrary to the child's interests, that it may endanger the child's life or health, I will give you an example that faith does not allow the child to carry out blood transfusions, then the doctor must not follow this rule, be it a gynecologist, a surgeon or any specialist doctor.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U108	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Heljo Pikhof! I'm opening negotiations. Please, Priit Onion! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft under consideration does not just solve the medical issue, but is much wider and more serious. The debate in the Commission was strange; I think that is the most correct word for it. A representative of women doctors Kai Haldre was present, who was passionately trying to talk about the lack of trust in women doctors stemming from the consultative period, and they have done a great deal to change this image. Why doesn't he trust doctors? He complained. However, I found this lucid performance incomprehensible because I did not hear anyone questioning the competence of these doctors. I'm absolutely sure they're doing their job well. But other doctors have also spoken along in this discussion. Pediatry Annika Tiit has written that gynecologists are obliged to determine the child's spiritual maturity and that they still seem to like it. They'll probably do that in 20 minutes. Dr. Tiit thinks it's absurd. Even as her pediatrician, she can't do it, and she doesn't want to do it because she's not qualified. People have been studying for quite a few good years, and they are called psychiatrists. With the saddest, doctor-gynecologist who does not know the child, has been recognised as more competent than his parents, although it is not understandable by which basis. This Dr. Tiidu doesn't have a soul, and he doesn't understand why gynecologists want this extra responsibility so much. The psychiatrist, Triin Eller, has written in the same discussion that he very much agrees that the parent cannot be shut down from the process. A gynecologist with his/her knowledge of the risks and consequences, a clinical child psychologist or also a psychiatrist in the case of a child with a mental disorder, and a child's parents, if possible, a future father with his/her family, if he/she is a minor, could participate in such a discussion. The final decision will be made by the child. If he goes against his parents in doing so, his chances of coping are too low. When deciding and discussing together, the team also sees the potential risks more clearly, and the parents also have all the information to know where they are guiding their child, Dr. Eller thinks. This bill is once again one of those that tramples our understanding of the family as a fundamental institution of society. The obligation for minors to obtain consent from their parents to have an abortion is removed. When the Child Protection Act, which, like this draft, diminishes the rights of parents in the family and increases the rights of third parties, including officials, was pushed through here under the leadership of the Sots and Reform Party, I examined whether a pregnant minor is a child in danger or in need under the new Child Protection Act. Then I got a yes. Now, when it came to this draft, it turned out that, of course, this is not the case. This complex decision changes a person's whole life, and it cannot be done on an easy hand. At present, we do not have a system for supporting and helping people, regardless of the decision that anyone will finally make. There is no system for helping the parents of a pregnant minor so that they can help and support their child to make the right decision. Now we're going in the direction that it's none of anyone else's business. I ask how § 27 of the Constitution can then be implemented, which states that parents have the right and obligation to raise and care for their children. How is this possible after the adoption of this law? The behaviour of the Chancellor of Justice, whose initiative also reached this hall, is particularly strange, and the socialistly fertile ground has fallen. What is strange and amazing is that, in March 2009, the Chancellor of Justice took the view that, when a minor is provided with health care at school, the consent of a parent must always be there. How can a parent's consent be required to provide certain services each time, for example when the child's teeth are repaired at school, but not even when an abortion is performed, let alone when he or she obtains his or her consent? In my opinion, this draft, given the overall legal space in the context of the rights and obligations of minors, is completely disproportionate. We put a burden on a young man that he cannot bear in reality. It's not fair. On the one hand, we are talking here about making a bill that a minor is not responsible enough to buy a bottle of cider or a pack of smoke. On the other hand, we believe that he is willing to make a decision literally over life and death and to carry a burden that profoundly affects his existence. In the light of the above, I believe that the wording in the law is better than the amendments that are being proposed. Of course, I understand that there are very difficult cases and exceptions that need to be taken into account. However, exceptions cannot or rather do not make sense to change the rule. If in the past there was a principle that the exception is a rule, then now I have understood that the policy of the current government is the understanding that the exception is a rule. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that we be more systematic and comprehensive on such serious issues as family rights and related rights. There are two ends to everything, and only the support of a third child of EUR 300 will not help us. We have to deal with everything that concerns the family. Only then will there be hope that our country and our people will last, as stated in the Constitution. Let us realize that not to have an abortion is never a tragedy because it results in the birth of a small child, a small, tender, sweet baby. On the other hand, abortion is, in any case, a tragedy because it results in the death of this very little, tender, sweet child. We were all once the same little people whose right to life is seriously affected by the decision we are debating today. Thank God we were born! As legislators, it is our constitutional duty to stand up for all the other small children who are still in their mother's womb to have legal protection that would allow them to be born into this world. Let us stand up for honoring, supporting and protecting life, not encouraging its destruction. If we cannot follow such an important principle in our actions, we have no right to adopt laws, because laws that do not respect the primary right of the most innocent people, the right to life, are not laws. Complicated decisions require understanding and supportive people, a social system and time to make the right decision, whichever is the case. We don't have a system right now, and we want to take people away. To sum up my speech, I ask you to think again. I am certainly against this bill, and I would also ask you not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U110	Thank you. Please, Etti Kagarov! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U111	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on termination of pregnancy and amendment of the Act on sterilization, which is under way today, has aroused a great deal of passion. The members of the Social Committee have received quite a lot of emotional letters complaining about why minors are allowed abortions without parental consent, death of unborn lives, the health of mothers and children is at risk, etc. Good people, I understand your concern! I understand, but there's no reason to panic like this. You've misunderstood this bill a little bit. It is either a lack of information or a lack of explanation for us members of the Social Affairs Committee, or it is in someone's interest to panic before the forthcoming Riigikogu elections. I repeat what Heljo Pikhof said yesterday that the number of teen abortions has fallen from 700 in 1996 to 191 in 2013. In addition, teen pregnancy is currently a rare situation. While in 1992 588 young people aged 15 to 17 became mothers, in 2013 there were only 141. These figures have decreased significantly, but our children, who faced a difficult decision and who needed support and help, are behind each figure. Most families have supportive and understanding relationships between parents and children. The draft stresses the importance of involving the legal representative of the minor or any other adult incapacitated person trusted by the minor. This means hearing the legal representative and his/her participation in the consultation process. Generally, minors go to a feminine doctor with their mother. The minor decides who the person he involves in the decision-making process is. In most cases, it is a mother, but there are situations where parents have problems (e.g. alcoholism or drug addiction), are abroad, or live in a care family, or are victims of violence. In this case, the involvement of a legal representative is difficult. If a minor does not wish to involve a legal representative, he or she may involve another adult person who is important to him or her, such as a grandmother, an older sister, aunt, etc. However, a healthcare professional has a legal obligation to inform the minor about the importance of inclusion. If the opinions of the young person and his or her legal representative differ and the doctor has assessed the ability of the minor to consider the pros and cons in a responsible manner, the decision of the minor shall be taken into account. For example, last week in Delfi, there was a story about a woman who had been forced to interrupt pregnancy at the age of 17, even though she was ready to give birth. He's blaming his mother for this decision until now. Thus, if the decision of the legal representative is contrary to the interests of the minor, the decision of the health professional to interrupt or maintain the pregnancy shall be based on the consent of the person himself. In most cases, of course, a joint decision should be reached. In addition, it was included in the draft law that a health care professional should inform a woman or a minor who wishes to terminate a pregnancy, if necessary, about the possibility of psychological or other appropriate counselling. Whatever decision a minor makes, whether he or she decides to interrupt or maintain a pregnancy, he or she needs professional advice, in addition to family support, psychological support. Last week, Kai Haldre, a doctor for women, wrote in the Estonian Päevaleht that everyone thinks they have experts on sexual matters. Human relations and close relationships are too complex an area for the law to include one type of counselling or another. Kai Haldre also pointed out the link between abortions and poverty. The most important thing is to understand and deal with the causes of unwanted pregnancies among young people. Every child and his destiny are unique. If a very young person becomes pregnant, it is important to find out who has damaged the development and opportunities of this young person and to help the young person find a support system. In an advanced society, the number of teen births is proportional to the incidence of poverty. We see the same in Estonia. Research carried out in Estonia and other developed countries, as well as the daily practice of doctors, is known that the more exceptional the unwanted pregnancy of teenagers becomes in society, the more undesirable the pregnancy of young people who have difficult domestic conditions, suffer from neglect and violence, and have no or no connection with parents. Risky sexual behaviour, as well as other health-related behaviours, are most closely related to the level of education and social conditions of people. Unwanted pregnancies in very young people are linked to sexual violence. Often the perpetrator comes from the same family as the young one. Apart from protecting the rights of families and children and increasing their sense of security, it is essential to listen to scientists, analysts, who make reasoned recommendations to reduce poverty. Raising income support and child benefit are primary measures that reduce poverty especially in families with children. Reducing poverty also reduces family tensions and provides a safe environment for our children to grow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U112	Thank you very much. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U113	First of all, a few brief comments on the previous speeches. On 13 January, the Committee on Social Affairs voted through the amendments and on 20 January, when these amendments were given a completely new content, no more voting took place. Nor has there been any justification for the failure to take into account the IRL proposals. The recitals in these proposals set out why these proposals are good. It was such a technical remark. In response to Kalle Palling, I say that if a minor wishes to give birth, but his or her parent insists on the termination of pregnancy, this is not legally possible under the current regime, as decided by the Supreme Court. So the previous answer was misleading. With almost every sentence of Etti Kagarov's report, I completely agree. Having dealt with this issue for years and trying to find a solution, and given the fact that the IRL, too, does not consider the current text to be successful, I must admit that this option, which is now before you at second reading, does not solve the problems, but, on the contrary, deepens them and also creates new problems. In December, the IRL made comprehensive proposals on how to resolve the issue. According to our understanding, the most appropriate Finnish model for Estonia would be. The following is a brief explanation of what are the errors of the current draft and why the design we have proposed would be better. Let us briefly recall the procedure of the draft. At first reading there was a text that did not foresee the involvement of parents. Then came a long line of letters that demanded greater family consideration. This results in a second-reading text that is now before you, which basically provides the families with a fake deal. The IRL takes the view that every law, but especially the law on family matters, must be substantive, fair and caring and must not be lied to people. However, this draft is a major mistake. On the one hand, families are given the impression that their position is taken into account. In several places both the text of the draft text and the explanatory memorandum state that the parent's consent should be sought. If the minor is not mature, that consent must be sought in any case. At the same time, it immediately appears that this question is completely pointless, because absolutely nothing depends on this consent. IRL is of the opinion that according to a person's right to privacy and the Estonian Constitution, it is in no way justified to seek the consent of a parent, because nothing depends on this consent either way or otherwise. Let us honestly say that a young person should be offered information to the parent, which is quite a different matter than asking for consent. In this way, parents or families are not mistakenly impressed as if they have the opportunity to accept or disagree with something. In the case of information, however, there would be an opportunity where in a normal, nice family a mother and father will tell a minor who may have been afraid that he might not be able to cope or that his parents may not all of a sudden like it, that they can help raise a child and manage everything, don't worry about the child, everyone will support him. In our proposal, we have also provided for the possibility of cases described at length by the previous speaker. Indeed, statistics and studies show that a very large proportion of minors who interrupt pregnancy come from problem situations and/or troubled families. Informing parents, for example, in the event of an incest or a situation where a child has been sold or raped is absolutely unthinkable. In such a case, the young woman should have the right to speak to a social worker of her choice or to a maternity crisis counselor instead of her parents. It is vital that this person is chosen with the young person's consent. This is where I come to the second big problem of this bill. The Child Welfare Act has been here a couple of times. Ladies and gentlemen, If you vote in favour of this bill in its current form, the doctor will have to inform the local government of the child immediately if he or she suspects that the young person is not okay, as we know about statistics, most of the time there is no child protection law. We will no longer be able to talk about the absolute privacy of a person's sexual life or other beautiful things. Consider the situation of a local government of 500 people, and the doctor will call the local government there and tell them that one young girl in the municipality has come to interrupt the pregnancy. How much trust does it give a girl to go to the hospital? But a doctor is obliged to comply with the Child Welfare Act unless another law says otherwise. In order not to neglect any young person and to motivate them to go to health care professionals in any case, the IRL suggested that the young person should be able to choose a social worker and that the local government should not be automatically informed. And one more thing. The social fear of pregnancy as such is not of any European value, it is appropriate to recall here. In a number of EU Member States, pregnancy, including minor pregnancy, is treated differently. In most countries, however, efforts are being made to help young people by recommending giving birth first, not surgical intervention. The explanatory memorandum to the bill states: "It is important to point out that although pregnancy is a normal physiological condition of a woman, it presents a number of health risks, including the risks of pregnancy, for which she must be advised and informed. "Remember the scene from Kertu, where at the very last moment the girl actually came to the conclusion that she still wants to bear the baby. Imagine now that at this point, a woman's doctor would have begun to inform Kertu of all the possible dangers and fears that could result from a perfectly healthy and normal pregnancy. It would have been stressful for nothing. As things have gone wrong now on such a vital issue, the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance is proposing to suspend the second reading of draft 731. We are asking everyone to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U114	Thank you. Erki Arrow was already in the chair, even though he had not been invited yet. But now, please, here you go! Would you like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U115	No, I don't. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to the socialist cryptic talk, I thought that since, unfortunately, I have had to go through quite a few operations in my life, though as a patient, I would like to give you an example. If a 14-year-old girl wants to have an abortion, she does not have to report it to her parents, but always before anesthesia, a person must complete a three-page form, where she must honestly answer questions about her medical condition and other subjects. If a young person still has a strong urge to have an abortion and does not dare to answer certain questions honestly, I am sorry, but I am talking about life and the problems encountered in Estonian medicine, for example, if he has lied and therefore falls into a coma during the operation, then the next call will be from the hospital to his parents and they will say: 'Excuse me, but your child is in a coma. " If the mother or father asks why his child should be in a coma, why his child is in a hospital, the hospital's answer is that he had an abortion. 'But why wasn't I informed? " ask the parent. 'Cause the law doesn't require it. ' Isn't this an absurd situation? Unfortunately, it has been reported in Estonia that the patient has not adequately answered the questions and that is why the anaesthesia has gone to water. When we process the bill, I think we should look at a lot of aspects. It is not always necessary to argue that there is opposition because the elections are coming, as Mr Kagarov said. No, I think this is a very specific and fundamental issue. Yes, we may differ in our view as to whether or not children are allowed to have an abortion. I know there's a lot of different minds in this hall. But I think that if we see that this law is very much needed, there could also be some exceptions here, for example, children under 16 should inform their parents or get their consent. In my opinion, hitting you like this with one rod is neither correct nor legal. That's all. I certainly do not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U116	Thank you. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We have come to the examination of the amendments. There have been 16 amendments to the draft. Let's go through them one at a time. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Social Affairs, and the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 2 is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Amendment 3 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 4 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 5 is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the proposal of the commission is essentially to be taken into account. Amendment 6 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 7 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 8 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 9 is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U117	On behalf of the IRL Group, I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U118	Thank you. Let's get ready for the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 9, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, the commission has decided not to take this proposal into account. Please take a stand and vote. 15 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 41 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 10 is from the Committee on Social Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Amendment 11 has been taken fully into account by the Committee on Social Affairs. Amendment 12 has been taken fully into account by the Committee on Social Affairs. Amendment 13 has been taken fully into account by the Committee on Social Affairs. Amendment 14 has been taken fully into account by the Committee on Social Affairs. Amendment 15 has been taken fully into account by the Committee on Social Affairs. Amendment 16 is from Priit Sibula, a member of the Riigikogu, and the proposal of the commission is to be disregarded. According to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. We have examined the amendments. The Riigikogu Board has received the proposal of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union to interrupt the second reading of the draft. We'll vote it through. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to interrupt the second reading of the Bill 731 of the Law amending the Law on termination of pregnancy and sterilization. Please take a stand and vote. 18 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 42 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Second reading is complete. We have finished dealing with the first item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U119	The second item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, initiated by Andres Herkel, member of the Riigikogu. I ask Andres Herkel, a member of the Riigikogu, to present a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U120	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, My proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu is simple. This is directly due to one precedent when, in the vote in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, no member of the Commission voted in favour of or against the proposal. If, at the moment, the proposal does not receive at least two votes in favour, it cannot be put to the vote in the large Chamber of Riigikogu according to the current Rules of Procedure Act. It is therefore a funny situation that if the vote in the Commission results in 0: 0 or 1: 1, this proposal cannot be voted in the Chamber, despite the fact that the Commission has not expressed its will in substance. I propose that § 106 (2) of the Home and Working Procedures Act be amended. This paragraph would further provide that a minimum vote against is also needed in order to be able not to vote on the proposal in the large Chamber. If there are more than two votes against, there is no need to vote. The Commission rapporteur will probably give a more detailed overview of the debate in the Commission. It can be argued which situations need to be regulated, whether only those with a vote result of 0: 0 or 1: 1, or even if the proposal lost with a result of 1: 2 or 0: 1, it should be noted that the Commission was probably not able to work when the result of such a vote was received and the question must be sent to the large Chamber. But I am pleased that, in general, the members of the Riigikogu have realised that according to the current procedure, this 0: 0 result should not be followed in the future. I recall that the content of this precedent was the amendments to the state budget, their sources of cover and the funding of political parties from the state budget. I guess they didn't want to take a stand. In the meantime, I have learned that an analogous fate has also hit one of the Commission's rapporteur Rein Lang's amendments, as well as the Committee on Monetary Affairs. There are no more examples of such history, but it is probably fair to rule out such cases, because they certainly do not decorate the work of the Riigikogu. I ask my fellow Members to support this draft and its further processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U121	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In fact, this bill will impose on the members of the Riigikogu the obligation to vote on the committee in the future. At the moment, one option is that it may not be voted on. It is known that several councils, such as the Broadcasting Council, have such an obligation that a member of the Council has to vote. He must not avoid voting unless he is absent. Anyone present in the Council must take a stand. Does this change mean moving towards it in the committees too?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U123	No, Mr Toobal, I do not want to give you any obligation to vote. As far as I'm concerned, you can not vote as much as you like. The simple question is that if the result of the committee's vote does not express in any way the will of the members of the Riigikogu, that is to say, it really stays at 0: 0, then the great hall can decide. You may not vote in the big hall, too, but I hope someone will vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U124	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U125	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! Please, construct this 0: 0 option! If people are present on the Commission and vote, and if this decision is to go somewhere else, this option cannot arise. A person is either impartial, in favour or against. If he participates in one vote, the 0: 0 result cannot be obtained in any of the options. Or can you design a situation like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U126	Any more questions? No further questions. Thank you, Andres Herkel. I request Mr Rein Lang, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as a co-presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U127	Thank you. I think there were four of these proposals, and I was in the Commission during one vote. I think that the committee chairman also asked who abstained, but the members of the committee simply sat down and did not raise their hand. On this basis, this conclusion was drawn. That's what happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U128	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft at its regular, public session on 19 January. The debate lasted exactly 50 minutes, and in the press this debate has been referred to as a debate on the empty point, a waste of time and a deliberate delay in the Commission's sitting. So much for public hearings. But indeed, Andres Herkel's draft was in some respects surprising, because there were situations where the vote on the committee would have ended with a result of 0: 0 before 2014 in the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia. But this situation caused Andres Herkel's bill. So, what were we discussing for 50 minutes? Indeed, the first question was whether a member of the Riigikogu was obliged to vote at a committee meeting. There are, as we know, three options: may be in favour, against or impartial. But you can also not take part in the vote. Whether this is the right of a member of the Riigikogu or not, we exchanged ideas about this. Then we discussed, by the way, quite seriously how the vote in committee could end with 0:0. We have proved that, since this has happened twice in the same committee, but when dealing with different drafts, this situation is theoretically possible. The debate also revealed the fact that an amendment made by a member of the Riigikogu cannot vote for itself if he is not a member of this committee. Consequently, in such a case, he does not have the opportunity to participate in the case. If this proposal, which resulted in the vote 0:0, cannot be put to the vote in the large Chamber, then the member of the Riigikogu actually becomes meaningless to make an amendment. So, in my opinion, and in the view of the other Members of the Commission, this matter has a clear content. We went on to argue about the draft text. The initiator is the sentence 'No amendment shall be put to vote which was not taken into account by the commission and which received less than two votes in favour', adding 'and more than two votes against'. That's what we were debating very passionately. Should it be resolved as the initiator proposes? Or could we say clearly, 'or if the vote ends with 0: 0'? We then debated whether the same procedure should also apply to the vote result 1: 1. If the result of the vote is 2: 2, the proposal shall in any case be entered in the table and may be put to the vote in the large Chamber. So, after we had spent 50 minutes in the press and completely deliberately delayed the Commission's working hours, we came to the conclusion that this draft has completely specific and decent content. The Commission unanimously took procedural decisions and these were the following: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 27 January, to propose to the assembly to close the first reading, to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be one working day, which is set at 17.15 p.m. on 28 January 2015, because this draft was initially on yesterday's agenda, and now it should be said that the deadline for tabling amendments is on Thursday 29 January 2015 at 17.15 p.m., and to appoint Rein Lang, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur. Consequently, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs unanimously concluded that Mr Herkel's draft deserves attention and proposes to proceed with it. We are, in any case, determined to accept this change still during its membership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U129	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Tõnis Kõiv.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, First of all, I must acknowledge you because the report gave a very good overview of the draft and the plan to amend the law. At present, the Home and Working Rules Act has been structured in several places according to its logic, so that one or two members of the public cannot become too affected by the work of the rest of the MPs in the Commission or also in the large hall. From there, too, this requirement, which proposal can be put to the vote in the large Chamber and which cannot be put to the vote. Does this change, which you have discussed with such consensus and want to proceed consensually, not pose a risk that it is possible to create one more chance of pranking without any content behind it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U131	As I explained, a good questioner, our debate was mostly about whether to allow a vote in a large Chamber if the vote in the committee was 0: 0 or to allow it even if the vote was 1: 1. That is what we have discussed, and this is now a place where amendments can be tabled. Most members of the Commission were somewhat sceptical about mentioning two votes against in the text of the law. I've been talking to the originator. He has said that he is also open to amendments which would provide for this additional regulation to be applied to the result of the vote 0: 0 as well as to 1: 1. As long as it is possible to put the matter to a vote in a large Chamber if the Commission does not take a position at all. I hope that makes sense. If the Commission does not take a position on the amendment, and no member of the Commission is against it or in favour of it, then it is a bit odd that the author of the proposal, who is not a member of this committee, cannot influence the matter in any way, nor can the large hall take any position. This, in my opinion, narrows the possibilities for a member of the Riigikogu to do his job.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U132	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U133	Honourable waitress! Was there a debate in the Commission on the legal difference resulting from the Rules of Procedure Act and on the substantive difference between the situation where all members of the Commission abstain and the situation where no member of the Commission takes part in the vote? Are these the same thing in substance that is different from form, or aren't they? How should they be dealt with in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U134	Thank you. This is not the key that we discussed in the Commission. Your party was represented by Mr Parts as an alternate and he did not raise this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U135	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission. Was it also discussed that the initiator of the amendment would have the opportunity to take up to a ten-minute break before the vote if he put his 0: 0 amendment to the vote? Did that come up suddenly?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U137	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U138	Thank you. This was not discussed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U139	Thank you. Our group was represented by Mr Juhan Parts, but then I will ask outside the Rules of Procedure what is your personal opinion. What, in your opinion, is the difference in substance if everyone is neutral or if no one votes?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U140	Thank you. I repeat, this was not discussed in the Commission. I can tell you my personal opinion at the cafeteria during the break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U141	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 774 should be terminated. As the time has passed by one day, I will set the deadline for the submission of the 774 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 29 January. The first reading is closed and the second item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U142	Let's move on to the third item. The first reading of the draft widow's pension law 813 initiated by the Estonian Central Party Group begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U143	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very brief about how this bill ever came about. It all started with the public initiative. Last autumn, I received an address that I have with me now about 40 pages in this briefcase. I checked it out, it's got 800 circa signatures. When I looked at the background, it turned out that an organisation, mostly made up of elderly people, had listened to a lecture on our pension system and the possibilities of pension systems at all, and became interested specifically in Finnish widow's pension. They wrote down their wishes and made an initiative which resulted in the draft widow's pension law being submitted by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. We offer to supplement section 5 of the State Pension Insurance Act as follows: '5) widow'. We currently have four types of pension and we are supplementing this list with a widow's pension. We are also supplementing the law with chapter 51, the title of which is, of course, the widow's pension, which regulates the right to widow's pension and the amount of widow's pension. The idea is that a person whose spouse, with whom the person has been married for at least 16 years and with whom the person has raised at least one child, has died at the time of his or her retirement age or at the age of his or her old-age pension would be entitled to that type of pension. This pension is granted for life. The bill is caused by the problem that Estonian women live longer than men. If you go to a retirement organisation or just meet these people, you can see it clearly. The problem is that a woman gives birth and raises children during her life, resulting in certain losses in retirement because she has fewer pensionable years. As you know very well, women's wages are on average lower than men's. A man who works has a higher salary, a higher retirement and also a higher pension. In most cases, a man dies earlier, and a lonely woman finds it very difficult to cope. So we think it would be right to legitimise a new type of pension widow's pension and put it into effect from 1 January 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U144	Good waitress, thank you. There's a question. Please, Andre Sepp!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! 800 signatures, of course, are quite a lot. Can you tell us what the organisation was doing with the collection of signatures and where they came from?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U146	Thank you, dear colleague. Since I was approached, it is clear that it is Ida-Virumaa and specifically Narva. I found out that most of it was the company of Narva County, which has been written and spoken about quite a lot. There are very active ladies who, at the age of 70 to 80, are engaged in sports. The city supports them. They organise events together and are socially active. As far as I know, they approached the collectives where they had worked in the past. One had worked in kindergarten, the other in an industrial establishment. That's where the signatures came from, but mostly through the members of this society.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U147	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Etti Kagarov, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U148	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Act 813 on widow's pension was discussed at the Social Affairs Committee meeting on 20 January. The meeting was attended by Marelle Leppik, Legal Adviser of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Lidia Soontak, Social Security Specialist at the Ministry of Social Affairs. The draft law was presented by Mikhail Stalnukhin, the initiator's representative. The purpose of the draft is to establish the possibility of granting widow's pension to a person who is in retirement and whose spouse has died. This is what Mikhail Stalnukhin was talking about here. We met with the opinion of the Government of the Republic. The Government of the Republic does not support the processing of the bill. Marelle Leppik, adviser to the Ministry of Social Affairs, briefly presented the opinion of the Government of the Republic. The work and contribution of the person to the pension system are primarily valued in the Estonian pension system. The draft, however, takes away from this logic and the pension begins to depend on someone else's contribution, which may reduce the motivation to work. At present, a similar pension already exists in the form of a survivor's pension, the widow's pension being essentially a special case of a survivor's pension. According to the draft, not all persons would receive the so-called widow's pension if the same social risk were to materialise. There is no explanation why entitlement to a pension should be limited by marriage and at least one child with a parenting requirement. For example, pensioners who do not have children face the same social risk and their coping with old age is also difficult. The implementation of the draft law entails considerable costs, but no reference is made in the explanatory memorandum to what these amounts are found. The amendment of the law should not lead to a lack of legal clarity and disproportionately different treatment of people. For the above reasons, it is reasonable to conclude that the amendment to the law is contrary to the fundamental principles of the current pension system and would create inequality by violating the principle of equal treatment. A debate on the draft was held in the Committee on Social Affairs. The main issues concerned expenditure from the state budget and the pension fund. The Commission's proposal was to send the draft to first reading by 27 January (the Commission unanimously supported the proposal). The proposal was to conclude the first reading (for 4 and against 3 members of the Commission). The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 10 February (consensual decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U149	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading must be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting the 813 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 11 February. The first reading is closed and the third item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U150	Let's move on to item number four. The first reading of the Bill of Amendment to § 26 of the Income Tax Act initiated by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu Riigikogu member Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U151	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present you with a draft, the substance of which was the subject matter of which was already subject to in-depth discussions in the Committee on Culture when the draft law amending the law on pre-school children's institution was under discussion. During the procedure of this bill, such a great story happened that the Ministry of Education and Research, which submitted the bill, had proposed that the place of kindergarten for children up to three years of age, in the interests of flexibility, could be replaced by a childcare facility with the consent of the parent. The explanatory memorandum to the draft act unambiguously stressed that parents' spending on both kindergarten and childcare should be the same, i.e. when the state offers local authorities the opportunity to be more flexible, this must not mean higher costs for families with children. When we examined this draft in the Committee on Culture, it became apparent that one small issue has been overlooked. In particular, the parent receives a tax refund from the kindergarten fees, but if the municipality replaces the kindergarten place with a child care place, the parents do not receive a tax refund. In fact, all members of the Commission agreed that such a solution was not fair and turned to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance for an impact assessment. The position of the Ministry of Social Affairs was unanimous. Yes, indeed, the total cost of providing a similar service to families with children should not be different for families. They support the fact that if a kindergarten child goes to childcare instead of kindergarten, there should also be a tax refund for the parents of the child. The answer of the Ministry of Finance was almost as encouraging. The Ministry of Finance analysed the possibility of a tax refund not only for a child of kindergarten age but since the birth of the child, and looked at the possible number of children who could receive a tax refund through their parents when attending childcare. The Ministry concluded that even with the maximum number of such children, the impact on the state budget from 2016 when income tax is to be refunded would be very limited, i.e. the change would have no significant impact. However, the vote of the Committee on Culture went a little less well and the proposal to extend the tax exemption was not supported. That is why we brought this question back to the table, because there was so little lack of consensus. The bill is in front of you, and I will explain it once again. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association have now tabled a draft in a much narrower framework than our amendment to the draft law on pre-school children's institutions. In particular, we suggest that, if the child of kindergarten age is not the child who is younger than one and a half years of age, but the child from one and a half years of age is attending childcare instead of the kindergarten, then childcare would be treated in the same way as day care and the cost to the parent would be the same because of the income tax refund. At the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance, this construction raised questions that were concentrated on one point. In fact, the kindergarten is a very clearly educational institution in Estonia, but whether childcare for a kindergarten-age child can be considered as part of a person's lifelong learning and training course. This brings us back to the same point that led to this flexibility, i.e. the replacement of kindergarten and childcare in the Riigikogu hall was approved last year. The principle was that, on the basis of the national curriculum, it is beautifully available in the Republic of Estonia, by the way, for the children of the crèche age, the activities that children of this age have to do with coping with themselves. Perhaps the national curriculum requires that children of one and a half years of age learn to put on socks, put on shirts, take it off, learn to potty and other activities related to self-hygiene. It's all babysitting. This was also the reason why the Riigikogu supported this possibility of substitution in the first place last year. After all, the Riigikogu did not intend to worsen the chances of lifelong learning for children or their educational opportunities, but it was based on the fact that the national curriculum at this age level provides for activities that can be studied and taught in childcare. The question was whether the child was studying at all. I will take advantage of this question in my speech for one very important reason. This question, in fact, tends to be repeated. I will use this arena to remind you: yes, the child is really learning. If the meaning and purpose of Section 26 of the Income Tax Act is that if people do not exclude a child from whom we do not study, then the costs associated with their learning are to a certain extent counted back on the income tax. Therefore, it cannot be considered justified that we, among the people who are learning, maybe take the children out. I am pleased that the Committee on Monetary Affairs, after long and thorough consideration, came to the exact same view that the term 'learning person' includes children who are studying. Therefore, it remains to be hoped that the draft will move forward with the necessary speed and in addition to the substantive support it has received for several months in both the Chamber of the Riigikogu and several committees, it could also materialise. This would solve the embarrassing situation that has arisen in Tartu, for example. The municipality has set up municipal shelters there to alleviate the drought in kindergarten places. But since the remuneration for a child in childcare would be higher by the income tax refund, in order to avoid this, the Tartu City Government has chosen a fair but legal approach: childcare bills are presented to parents via municipal day care centre. This way, we are back in Soviet times, where the papers were moved as needed, not exactly as the law said. I dare congratulate the City Government of Tartu for such a creative approach, because it fulfils the point clearly expressed by the legislator. However, whether the legislator's clear point was also that this is the way to huddle with invoices and papers, I doubt that. So by quickly supporting this draft, we would resolve the legal confusion in a situation where there really is no substantive dispute. Thank you very much for your attention. I also note that the two letters from the Ministry of Finance during the various finance ministers were somewhat different in terms of content, but did not deal with educational aspects. Maris Lauri's interpretation suggested that the refund of all training costs should perhaps be abolished. I really hope that this is not the first choice of either this or the next Riigikogu. If there are any questions, I'd be happy to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U152	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Finance Committee, Rannar Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U153	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the sitting, the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. I will give a brief overview of what took place in the context of this draft in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed a draft of 784 on 19 January. The draft was presented by Liisa-Ly Pakosta, a member of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. In fact, in his recent presentation, he marked the most important issues that were discussed in the Commission. I will not stop at them very long in terms of time savings, but I will still bring out some questions and the answers given to them. Lemmi Oro participated in the meeting of the Finance Committee from the Ministry of Finance. He explained the meaning of § 26 of the Law. According to the Ministry's interpretation, this section was originally intended to support professional and vocational training. Later, the impact of this section has been extended to kindergartens, as kindergartens were regarded as educational establishments and the cost of training for participation in them. The Commission raised the question of what will change specifically in the situation of children. An example of a 2.2-year-old child was given in this regard by a Member of the Commission. At present, it is possible for the municipality to provide a kindergarten place or childcare service for him, but under the current Income Tax Act, income tax can only be deducted for the kindergarten service, which is not the tax exemption for childcare services. The originator informed the Commission of the impact analysis carried out by the Ministry of Finance on the extension of the income tax exemption to childcare services. Currently, or at the time this impact analysis was carried out, there were 3885 childcare facilities. European Union funds can create up to 2000 more kindergarten or childcare places in the new period. In explaining the budgetary impact, a total of 5 000 children aged between 0 and 3 years have been taken into account. This option would have an impact of EUR 1 million in 2016. The draft has taken account of children aged 1.5 to 3 years and the impact of the savings service has been generated by the circa of 0.5 million euros. The question was also raised as to how the certification of the childcare provider is to be carried out, whether a training licence is needed for childcare. Currently, the educational institution, or kindergarten, has to be registered. Kindergartens must provide proof that they meet the requirements. Childcare is not currently an education service, but a social service, which is why it is not subject to the requirements for education services. Following a debate in the Commission, the Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda by 27 January, to close the first reading and to set a deadline of 10 working days, i.e. 10 February, for the submission of amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U154	A good waitress, the chairman of the committee, thank you for your powerful presentation. There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? Desires of speech... [[The cavalry.]] Are you sure, Mr. Chef? (Interjection from the floor: yes-yes) There's no call. The commission has proposed that the first reading be closed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 784 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 11 February. The first reading is closed and the fourth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U155	The fifth item is the first reading of the Bill 841 amending § 81 of the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels, initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Finance Committee, Rannar Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U156	Ladies and gentlemen, As we know, there is no s. a from 1 January, the use of specially labelled liquid fuel for rail and shipping purposes and from 1 May onwards for non-heating and heat and electricity production. According to the current law, residues of special-purpose liquid fuel that have remained in the possession of the person after those dates should be disposed of to the person who sold the fuel or to the excise warehousekeeper. This should be done within one month. By way of derogation, a natural person who has used specially labelled liquid fuel as heating fuel shall be allowed to pay the difference between the excise duty on specially labelled liquid fuel and diesel fuel if he holds less than 100 litres of such fuel in total. As one of these deadlines has already passed, it must also be said now that a number of problems have emerged in practice. In particular, the return of specially labelled fuel to sellers and excise warehousekeepers is difficult and, in many cases, to a significant extent. For example, specially labelled fuel may be in hard-to-access tanks. Pumping it out can take time and can be technically difficult, often costly. For example, ships are used in shipping, which have been preserved in winter due to their age and ice class and are not possible or difficult to navigate with until spring. Nor may the fuel to be returned in the tank be of such quality that the parties who sold the fuel would be interested in buying it back. The question may no longer be whether the owner of the fuel can pump it out and sell it back, but whether it has to be disposed of somehow. Then it will not be possible to get a profit or a refund for this fuel, but it may actually happen that the utilisation of this fuel will require additional expenses. The current regulation was remembered in this Chamber on 1 June. Its logic is based on the assumption that the recipients of the regulation will have sufficient time to plan their fuel reserves and will be able to do so in such a way that the fuel residue will not remain or will be less than 100 litres. At the same time, it has become apparent that fuel tanks may contain fuel for several years and may be intended for use only when special needs arise, such as reserve tanks. Consequently, lighter transitional solutions should be considered for abandoning the use of liquid fuel specifically labelled in these areas. The bill is inspired by that idea. In the background, we were approached by the Cities Union in October. He was the first interest group or representative organisation to address us, who pointed out the problem of pumping out and selling back fuel, which in practice could arise. At the joint session in November we discussed this with representatives of the Cities Association, including representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax and Customs Board. We have found one possible solution that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has now given you in a consensual manner in this Chamber. Its purpose is to enable the holder of specially labelled liquid fuel to make use of this residue until the end of its intended use if he pays an additional excise duty on the difference between the amount of excise duty on specially labelled liquid fuel and the amount of excise duty on diesel. We discussed this draft in the Commission at two sessions, last Monday and Tuesday. Some questions were raised in the Commission, there were not too many, but some were. One of the issues I think it would certainly be worth paying attention to is whether it is right and fair, on the one hand in law and, on the other hand, in principle, to detain the additional excise difference from the fuel already purchased. The question arose as to whether it could be considered that this fuel would be exempted up to a certain limit or at all. As far as I know, two political groups, the Social Democratic Party Group and the Reform Party Group, are preparing an amendment to the draft law. This issue was mentioned in the Commission and it was considered necessary to proceed with it. However, the members of the Commission consensually considered that it would make sense in any case to initiate a draft law and improve it if necessary during the process, as the current situation is unlikely to be well realised in practice. It is costly and difficult for the Estonian Tax and Customs Board to control compliance with the law, and it is difficult and often costly for legal or natural persons to act legally. The current law should in any case be amended. Consequently, the Commission unanimously decided first to initiate the draft, which has been done. We also propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 6 February. The deadline, true, is less than ten working days, as would normally be the time limit for submitting amendments. But in the committee everyone believed that it was more important in this context that this legislative amendment be dealt with during the work of this Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U157	Thank you. You have questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U158	Good manager! Good waitress! How do you imagine this excise duty will be refunded? Fuel is a stock exchange, and its price fluctuates exactly as it fluctuates. I understand that if I bought alcohol or smoke in December and started using it today, I should pay for the excise difference. Now I'm getting back to that law. It seems to me that the temporary government is trying to make temporary laws that are simply harmful to people. I'm reading § 1, point 2. In paragraph 12 the expression 'in the possession of a person'. What does "person" mean? Does this law apply only to individuals or also to natural and legal persons, municipalities and kindergartens? Just a while ago, the Prime Minister said that kindergartens and schools wouldn't go under it. Who's the "person" here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U159	Thank you. Now, if you stop at your introduction, because excise duty does not tax the price of the goods but the quantity, what exactly is on the market does not affect the amount of the excise duty. Perhaps the quantity of goods remains the same, regardless of how the price fluctuates on the market. In this sense, the calculation of excise duty is entirely feasible, and there are certainly no problems with this draft. As regards persons, this law applies to both natural and legal persons.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U160	Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U161	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We also had a debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on the fact that excise duties have been raised before. When excise duties on alcohol or tobacco have been raised, no one has insisted that anyone who bought a block of smoke on the day before the increase in excise duty should pay the State for the difference in excise duty. This commodity belongs to this person, and the subsequent tax increase doesn't matter. Light fuel oil used for domestic heating follows a different approach. Would you explain why extra taxation is justified in the case of oil, even though the goods are already human?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U162	Thank you. Indeed, this parallel was drawn. It is a question of legal analysis whether or not the barrage that is being made in one form or another in respect of property is justified. Each of these grates needs to be analysed. That is also one reason why the Committee on Monetary Affairs already last week, if I remember correctly, turned to the Legal and Analytical Department of the Registry to get a comment on how they see this problem. In developing this draft, the Ministry of Finance, especially from them, did not come up with the so-called legal topic. In fact, this principle is already in force in the law adopted since spring. This applies to fuels with a residual content of less than 100 litres. This, of course, does not mean that it is right or just. Well, this is a decision-making place. I think we can make changes to the draft, if necessary, on the basis of how the Legal and Analytical Department, for example, sees this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U163	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U164	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! The question is, have you lost your mind? We have heard questions here about cigarettes and alcohol. You can ask about cars or macaroni just like that. Do we have to start paying more for the goods we have already bought when the tax is increased? In Question Time today, the Prime Minister responded exactly the same way that it is foolish and he hopes that this approach will be restricted. Have you thought in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that this stupid law would simply end? A person who already has some kind of goods has paid taxes for it and should not have to pay any extra costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U165	Thank you. As I pointed out in my report, we had this topic under discussion. I have not heard the Prime Minister's assessment, but the Ministry of Finance played a very important role in preparing the draft. So, as I mentioned, rather the question is whether the barrage that is being made on property is justified at the moment. That's the point of justification. It is certainly not possible to look at all excise goods at the same time, as well as the goods subject to VAT on this issue. I'm sure you can't draw one parallel to one. However, indeed, as I mentioned, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has asked in our own house a legal assessment of how this draft should go further. This draft has been drawn up on the basis of the understanding that the Ministry of Finance, the Tax and Customs Board and the only representative organisation or lobby that has approached us at the joint table of the Cities Association, where most members of the Monetary Commission were present.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U166	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U167	Thank you, manager. Mr President of the Commission. I understand that the problem is big, there is no money and there is money to be found somewhere, which is that the housing costs of Estonian households are 1.65 times higher than in Finland. The Prime Minister didn't answer me why it's like that. That's it. But this is probably the first case in world practice where goods are taxed ex post. Can you give an example of any other cases like this from somewhere in the world when a person buys a commodity and the next day the bill comes to him that he has to pay more? I don't know what's going on. Where is this legal certainty and who can a person believe? Six months later, the state will have empty wallets and then suddenly another tax will be added if a person has bought a car or furniture or so. What's going on?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U168	Thank you. The impact of this draft on the state budget is certainly negative, not positive. This bill does not provide any additional funds to the state budget. It is assumed that the minus is not very large, but it can be assumed that the effect has a minus sign. The current law, as we know, is even tougher and I think it will also be significantly more harmful to the consumer. First and foremost, because the remaining or stocked fuel should be pumped out or otherwise recovered and disposed of to the seller. It is likely that the benefits would not be very high. Instead, excise fuel should be purchased. So there is certainly a law in force, I dare to admit it, to the consumer disproportionately difficult and costly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U169	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U170	Good manager! Good waitress! I just wanted to say first that the excise duty is calculated on the volume, but the price of the heating is fluctuating. If I want to sell back, I know what price I bought, but what price is on the market when I sell back the fuel, none of us know. But the Prime Minister of the Interim Government just moments ago in Question Time claimed that the boilerhouses of schools and kindergartens, which are heated with specially labelled fuel, are not affected by this change. Have I misunderstood something, or did the Prime Minister just lie?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U171	Thank you. If I have to choose between these two options, then since I did not hear the Prime Minister speak in Question Time, I am sorry to say which of the options you have proposed is correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U172	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U173	Thank you. Indeed, it seems to me, especially in the light of today's Question Time, that it would be useful to be in Question Time and to listen to the replies of the members of the government at such a politically sensitive time, because there were some interesting things to be heard today. Indeed, the Prime Minister also argued that the changes in question, and at all these views, that ex post excise duty on fuel must be taken into account and paid for, are foolishness and all other things to be added. So there was a lot of information. My question is this: is it not appropriate to review this issue in the coalition? Otherwise, you will have to compete again for the honor of who it was who finally said that this bill had to be withdrawn. This is what happened to the recordings and other things, when, at the end of the day, there was a huge struggle over your own bill, which party was the initiator of the withdrawal of the bill. Do you think that would make sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U174	No, I think that would be extremely unreasonable. This would mean that the current regulation, even in my opinion, would remain in force. I don't think that makes any sense. In any case, it makes sense to proceed with this draft, which was acknowledged by all the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs present in the Commission, and the decision was taken in a consensual manner. As I mentioned, I know at least two political groups, the Socialist and Reform Party, who are planning and preparing amendments. This draft is likely to be amended, at least to be expected. In any case, it makes sense to go ahead with this draft, because if we do not resolve this problem with its composition, which is in the law in force, it is likely that 1 May will come before the amendment, and this unreasonable regulation will be put into practice. Although, in fact, what is to be denied here is already the case for legal persons in certain cases. That it is impractical has proved to be a real life.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U175	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I think it's crazy, too. It could be easily solved. If this bill came into force as a law, the fuel purchased by private consumers before the date x would have a valid rate of excise duty and the fuel purchased in the future would have a new rate. I haven't seen people with huge barrels in the backyard. I don't think some private consumer is gonna start stocking up a terrible amount of that fuel. In the case of legal persons, I believe that the problem could be solved by taking into account the fuel stored for a single heating period. Somehow you can look after them. Setting borders is okay, but taxing afterwards is irrational.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U177	Thank you. There was no question here, but in general I can say that these thoughts coincide with those which several Members of the Commission have also pointed out in the Commission. I think that, in any case, there are grounds for considering them seriously. I believe that, for the second reading, amendments will be made to the draft law and that the law will be adopted in such a way as, I hope, to obtain a consensus in this Chamber as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U178	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U179	Thank you, George Ratas! I would like to introduce a bit of surprise that this draft, in its form, has come here at all from the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Now you admit that your thoughts are already moving, and you actually realize that this bill is a little silly. After all, the basic principle of law is that if, in the course of a legislative amendment, the situation improves for the legal entities, the act will apply retroactively, but if it becomes worse, it will not apply retroactively. At the moment, you are doing the opposite according to the original draft. In my opinion, a deadline should be written down instead of merely practically all this moaning, measurement and bureaucracy. Until then, the fuel they bought is okay, so let people use it afterwards. All the more so as anyone who buys excise-free fuel before 1 May can be comforted by the fact that in six months' time, excise-fuels or unmarked fuels are likely to be cheaper than those currently labelled.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U180	Thank you. However, I dare to correct that this bill certainly does not make anyone worse because the current law is, in fact, more uncomfortable for people. In any case, with this bill, even in its present form, we will improve the situation that arose in the spring following the adoption of the law in the Riigikogu. So, in fact, the draft, in its proposed form, hopefully even more so, will make the current legal situation more consumer-friendly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U181	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U182	Honourable Chairman of the Commission and Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu also! When this tax increase was voted into law on 1 July last year, the Ministry of Finance, who announced this draft, planned that the excise duty would be EUR 7.8 million more than this year. Now we are trying to make this law more sensible so as not to strain homeowners with the obligation to pump out fuel. I understand that all political parties are also coming to an understanding by preparing amendments so that, afterwards, the fuel that has already been bought out is not taxed at all. What is the estimate of the cost to the state budget if such changes are made? Can such changes be made to the state budget in the middle of the financial year?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U183	Mr President of the Centre Party Group. When these amendments come, they will go to the Ministry of Finance to comment and the impact that one or the other solution might have on the state budget will certainly be highlighted. Surely this effect is a negative sign, which must inevitably be taken into account. The Ministry of Finance has to assess whether such changes can be made in this form with a negative sign in the current year, in the sense that any additional revenue could cover them, such as higher tax receipts in other areas. We will certainly ask the Ministry of Finance for this assessment of the amendments, and I believe that we will get it. So it is possible to respond specifically to this number when these amendments exist. To some extent, it still remains an estimate, as the main question is how much therefore, especially in the next heating period, but also before it, higher-taxed fuel or without having to buy fuel at a preferential rate. That is what should be assessed first and foremost.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U184	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U185	Thank you. Mr Randpere gave me a very concrete example of how this could be. I'll ask you again. Why do we still have to waste so much resources and energy on this fuel that is already in the tank? Why would a person who's already bought that fuel pay again? But that's it. The farthest idea of this bill is to encourage more pellet heating or gas heating instead of oil heating for private houses and apartment buildings. For private houses, KredEx has support instruments, but not for apartment buildings. How should larger apartment buildings behave in the future? They should stop the current heating, but they can't get support from anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U186	Thank you. On this issue we discussed thoroughly in the context of the state budget. If further clarification is needed on how the process has progressed, it is probably reasonable to contact the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. There was no debate on this in the Commission, and I do not have an overview of how the preparation and opening of support measures have progressed today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U187	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U188	Thank you. Good waitress! I have repeatedly expressed my view in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that I am not at all in favour of excise duty on fuel oil used for heating. I believe that the law by which such a decision was adopted should be repealed. But I would like an explanation of this draft. How has the Commission planned how the owner of the fuel, or furnace heater, will measure the liquid according to the eye and how will taxation take place in the eyes?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U189	Thank you. I think that it would probably not be entirely justified to exempt this type of fuel completely from excise duty. This would not go very well with the fact that other similar types of fuel have been subject to excise duty. However, as far as the specific question is concerned, in general terms this draft requires the consumer to assess the amount of fuel he still has. This does not imply that the assessment should be accurate. It is clear that the Tax and Customs Board is not going to check if there is no conflict between the quantities purchased for which they have information and normal consumption and if it is not shown that fuel has been stored to a very large extent but not declared. If there's a big difference, the bill says the IRS would have the right to go check. According to the draft, this would certainly not involve a penalty decision or other form of penalty, as it cannot be assumed that even if the difference between the declared fuel and the actual fuel quantity is very large, it would certainly have been done maliciously. In that case, the excise difference should simply be paid off. This is the way it is thought out and presented in the present form.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U190	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U191	Thank you, manager. Good chairman of the committee! I'm pretty sure if this bill becomes a law, it'll be easy to challenge. I don't think you need to be a legally very smart person for that. Legal certainty should be taken into account. I simply suggest that you withdraw this bill and call on the people to pay the excise duty voluntarily if they want to pay, but do not put it in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U192	Thank you. I'm sure that's an interesting suggestion. So far, no one in the Commission or elsewhere has come up with such a proposal. So I'm sticking to my answer, so the most irrational thing is to withdraw this bill right now. In such a case, the current regulation would remain in force, which, as I understand it, does not seem practical, well-featured or reasonable to anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U193	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U194	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have a more philosophical question. In fact, the draft has been very well developed in the course of the procedure, how ridiculous this whole special labelling system is. For years, this system has been tried to be changed in the agricultural sector, for example by the Minister of Agriculture, the former Helir-Valdor Seeder. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] This has been promised by the current Minister for Agriculture, but nothing has changed. It's the same ridiculous situation in agriculture. For example, in order to clear the road with a tractor after a snowstorm, it is like changing fuel in a tank. In my opinion, this whole system of special labelling should be abolished and replaced by direct payments to the agricultural sector when it is necessary to support this sector. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U195	Thank you. Surely the Helir-Valdor Seeder, who is still Helir-Valdor Seeder, who is in this hall knows this background story perhaps better than the person currently on the remote. However, since this issue has also been going through the Committee on Monetary Affairs briefly, not recently, but earlier, I can say that, as far as I know, the main obstacle is why it is difficult to implement, in a set of rules that does not allow area-based payments in agriculture to be distinguished depending on what is being cultivated there. I have so much information on why the transition to direct payments is difficult. The Commission's position on this issue has not been directly developed. But, as far as I know, that is why, at first sight, this completely sensible approach has been blocked.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U196	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U197	Thank you. You said you didn't participate in a very popular TV show today, Riigikogu Question Time. That is why I am quoting the verbatim. A question or a statement was put to the Prime Minister: 'The loss of special fuel will not only hit households but also kindergartens, schools and other municipal institutions. ' The Prime Minister replied: 'This statement that it also affects kindergartens and schools is not accurate. I would ask you to fill yourself in more detail on this matter. This change concerns households. ' I'm going to ask you, based on a verbatim report, how are these things going to be? When we had to adopt the law here at some point, the explanatory memorandum stated which schools in which municipalities it concerns. The Prime Minister, however, said that we have completely misunderstood the matter. How many parallel worlds do we have on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U198	To be honest, I have not given much thought to how many parallel worlds exist on this issue. I don't know. However, when it comes to the substance of whether this amendment concerns the said authorities, whether the loss of specially labelled fuel concerns both natural persons and legal persons, I would generally trust the explanatory memorandum attached to the draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U199	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U200	You said that other similar fuels were similarly subject to excise duty. I can safely say that there is no fuel in Estonia that would have been taxed at 50% as domestic heating. Speaking of this draft, I ask what prevents the ex post collection of excise duty from being excluded, so that those who have acquired this fuel oil should not measure ex post how much fuel there is in the tank, but should simply pay a new rate of excise duty for the fuel purchased in the future. Why does it have to be recovered afterwards? Is it just to fill the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U201	Thank you. As regards the first part of the question, I will specify what I said. We have no similar fuel that is not subject to excise duty. The good questioner felt that this type of fuel should not be subject to excise duty, which led to my previous comment. On the other side of the question, I would like to say that there is no legal or substantive obstacle to the implementation of the solution that has just been heard or to the provision of legislation. This has also been pointed out in the Commission and can be fully implemented. Of course, the budgetary implications of this proposal certainly do.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U202	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U203	Thank you. This bill is the stupidest and most bizarre bill I've ever read in my so-called political life. Perhaps this can only be compared with the legal regulation of stocks, the so-called'sugar fine', which it very much recalls and which eventually resulted in great legal chaos. I'm forecasting the same thing here. An unpleasant surprise was that the Prime Minister, who is the former Chairman of the Monetary Commission, has no subject at all. He does not know that this change also concerns municipal institutions. But my question is specific to the bill. You said that if there was any doubt that a private consumer could cheat the country when measuring it, the Tax and Customs Board would be entitled to go check, but no fine would be imposed for the time being. As we know, private premises may be entered and the owner checked against his will only if a criminal case has been initiated. Does the Tax and Customs Board really intend to carry out such checks and, if there is a check, to start a criminal case? Or do you change other laws? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U204	Good questioner, your time is up!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U205	Thank you. This bill doesn't change any other law. I do not know that the Tax and Customs Board, at least during the drafting process, did not mention this at any point in the plan to launch a criminal case during each inspection. I sincerely believe they won't. This is also not possible in practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U206	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U207	I'm gonna take a little protection for the Prime Minister here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U208	It's a round of questions!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U209	Yeah, but as an introduction, I'm gonna tell you what happened in Question Time. The Prime Minister was also asked what he thought about this draft and the attitude of the Reform Party and the Group to it. The Prime Minister said that he does not believe that the members of the Reform Party Group would applaud this draft as it is here. The Prime Minister was not wrong to claim that. I can prove that the people of the Reform Party really do not applaud it. I think this bill is stupid, too. But here's my question. Does the Committee on Monetary Affairs really feel that when representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax and Customs Board come to the Commission, you must do as they say? Why don't you round up your peasant's mind and tell them, dear people, let's not be stupid, let's not make people measure, let's not send the Tax and Customs Board to run around in vain and see how much fuel anyone has in the tank, but we'll do our best. What has been bought before has been paid for, for what's after...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U210	Time's up, good questioner!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U211	Thank you. I'm trying to get started somehow. As far as the Reform Party is concerned, I do not know whether to applaud or not, but the law currently in force has been adopted with the support of the Reform Party, in the sense that this principle is also in the existing law. It is true that this principle applies only to the quantity of fuel up to 100 litres, while the remaining fuel is subject to the obligation to sell it back. So with a similar line of thought, the Reform Party Group has agreed whether or not to applaud, I do not know. This is likely to be known by those who are more familiar with the group's internal life. But with regard to the second question, I do not know how many farmers there are in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but I believe that there are reasonable people there. So no, certainly not everything that comes from the Ministry of Finance or the Tax and Customs Board through the Ministry of Finance is what is finally passed as a law. I believe, as I have also mentioned here, that this law is likely to be adopted in a somewhat different form than is currently proposed as a draft. I believe that the law that is currently in force will also be amended.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U212	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U213	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I do agree with you that this law, which was adopted quickly, is far more foolish than this bill, which we are now trying to avoid these mistakes and stupidities. But if corrected, it is wise to correct it so that it is actually reasonable. I really hope that this bill will become even better during the procedure. Now I'm talking about this argument that if we have a suspicion that the measurement is being cheated and we're going to check the private owner's territory against his will, we're assuming it's against the will of the private owner, then we need to start a criminal case, otherwise it's not possible to go there and do a check. This was stated by the representative of the Ministry of Finance in the Committee on Finance, where I myself was present. I think you're aware of that, too. Once again, I ask how the Tax and Customs Board should fulfil this obligation in your opinion. Is he really gonna start a criminal case for every check?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U214	The answer is no. I don't think the Tax and Customs Board is gonna start a criminal case on every check. This would certainly not be legally correct or in any way justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U215	Aivar Riisalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U216	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Close voters saw you working for a while at Gross's store as a cashier. As Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you have brought a relatively foolish law into this Chamber. Does this mean that, as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you have taken political responsibility and are looking for new tasks to keep people from being bothered with such nonsense?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U217	Thank you. At the moment, I am here as chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs; no new task is being sought and never looked for before.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U218	Procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U219	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Since two statements were made here that my former name was Helir-Valdor Seeder, I want to assure you that my name is Helir-Valdor Seeder now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U220	Thank you. I believe that. No further questions. Good waitress, thank you for your presentation and your answers. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Koka, representative of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union faction, please speak to the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U221	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It feels kind of weird. First, the interim prime minister of the interim government lies to all of us in Question Time and tries to make it clear that kindergartens and schools do not go under this law. Then comes the chairman of the Monetary Commission, who says that he does not know exactly how this system will work, whether private houses and apartment buildings or municipalities are in any way compensated for the reconstruction of boiler houses. When you start putting it all in cash, you have to look at how much specially labelled excise duty on fuel has been written into the state budget. But now that all the boiler houses are being rebuilt, on which the state has promised to put many and many millions, then, after that, no excise duty should be collected at all, because no one uses specially labelled fuel. The question arises as to who or what this law is being made for. Somehow, people who have not made decisions seem to have done nothing for one day in life, or who live in an apartment that is heated from a central boiler house, and they do not have to worry about whether this boiler house is oil-fired or other heating and what it costs. The salary of a member of the Riigikogu is decent enough to pay for heating costs in your home. I am absolutely convinced, and my group has clearly said this through my mouth before, that the increase in all the excise duty on fuel, fuel oil and gas, which was legalised on 1 July last year, is abusive to the people of Estonia. In Estonia, entire cities have been transferred to oil heating at some point. In my own constituency, such a city is Põltsamaa. Nearly 4,500 people live in this city, where there are two large central boiler houses, both of which work on liquid fuel. They're talking about switching to pellet heat. I hope that this is not the case, but there is doubt that pellet producers have not made such good lobby that both gas and oil boilers will be disposed of. Then it would be easy to raise the price of pellets, because something needs to be heated up. But we should also think about the Estonian people. Very many landlords are now pensioners who have spent their whole lives contributing to the state of Estonia so that we are at the level we are now. But we're trying to take the last one away from them right now. If they are unable to invest thousands and thousands of euros to rebuild boilers, they will simply have to pay much more for heat from autumn onwards. We know that Estonia is a Nordic country and unfortunately or fortunately we have four seasons. Most households already turn the boiler on in September, and it is only in mid-May that it will be shut down. These expenses are everyday. Maybe the ministers of the provisional government just lost something. They brought this bill before us last year... I'll have three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U222	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U223	... but on the last working day of the Riigikogu before the summer vacation, all members of the Riigikogu may not have thought with quite a clear head what decision they had taken, they did not mean that they would punish thousands and thousands of Estonian families. On the one hand, we try to raise child benefits and give more food in school, but with the other hand, we double home costs, or heat prices. I propose that the Committee on Monetary Affairs bring a new draft to this Chamber next week, which would repeal the law on excise duty increases adopted on 1 July. We would still make a very good gift to the people of Estonia during this composition, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U224	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. To make it clear that the President is not wrong, I will ask whether this was the speaker's personal proposal or whether it was a rejection proposal on behalf of the group.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U225	I proposed not this bill, but the previous law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U226	Thanks for the clarification. The negotiations are closed. The opinion of the Committee on Finance is that the first reading should be concluded. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 841 amendments at 4 p.m. on 6 February. The first reading is closed and the fifth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U227	Let's move on. The sixth item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure, the Law of Obligations Act, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Enforcement Procedure and the General Part of the Civil Code Act. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Neeme Suur!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U228	Mr President! I came briefly to the remote simply to remind you once again of the scale of the problem we have with fast-track loans and consumer credit. At the beginning of last year, there were 34706 persons in Estonia due to the use of a fast loan or consumer credit in the register of payment disruptions, including one valid payment disruption in 19671, and 15035 people with two or more valid payment disruptions. To date, the number of these people has risen to 36838. Thus, during this period, while we have dealt with this topic in the Riigikogu, just over 2 000 more people have been in difficulties due to the use of fast loans or consumer credit. Perhaps the sooner we get on with these issues, the better for everyone. We currently have four drafts dealing with this area in the Riigikogu. First of all, the draft 713 is currently being discussed by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Monetary Affairs is dealing with draft 795 concerning the obligation to authorise and subject to the Financial Supervision Authority in the case of consumer credit companies, the Committee on Legal Affairs is also dealing with draft 786 on the regulation of collection costs and, finally, draft 780 on the restriction of consumer credit advertising is being dealt with in the Committee on Economic Affairs. There are common topics in the Riigikogu that cross the boundaries of political worldview, we take national defence. We're not really arguing about this. If we are looking for another cross-party issue, it could be poverty reduction. The fact that 2 000 more people have fallen into a loan trap this year is, in fact, an obvious problem of poverty. At the same time, we have allowed the emergence of a small industry that attracts people into borrowing and supports itself by using either interest, the percentage rate of charge, the cost of concluding the contract, the costs of collecting with the help of the collection companies or the costs of the enforcement procedure. This situation should definitely change. The Social Democratic Party very much hopes that all these four drafts will find a rapid positive solution in the Riigikogu. Today is the first final vote. I call on everyone to support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U229	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will begin the preparation of the final vote on the draft 713. Dear colleagues, before we go to the final vote, I say that draft 713 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership. Before the final vote, we will do a presence check. 58 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; 43 are missing. I will put draft 713 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 47 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. Draft Act 713 amending the Code of Civil Procedure, the Law of Obligations Act, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Enforcement Procedure, and the General Part of the Civil Code Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has not been adopted as a law because it did not receive 51 votes in favour. The draft will fall out of the procedure. The sixth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U230	Let's move on. The seventh item is the third reading of the Draft Planning Act 571 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Toomas Tõniste, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U231	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on planning has unfortunately reached the third reading in this Chamber, but before the vote, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that it is not ripe for adoption as a law. What is interesting is that the draft planning law before us has not taken into account the views of the planners, but has been completely ignored. This law only increases the administrative burden and confuses current practice. Both legal certainty and operational planning practices were lost this time. Indeed, there are problems with the latter, but their real reason is not to comply with the current law. With this law, we gained more bureaucracy. The number of sections has already increased by more than half compared to the current law. In essence, the whole procedure has been made written, the aim is not to find solutions. The procedure has been subject to a three-year time limit. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The problem with the current law was not too much time, it was and is Tallinn's problem. The exact same plan is processed more than ten times faster in Viimsi than in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U232	Good waitress and good colleagues, there's too much silence in the hall. It could be a little more noise, or I don't know if there's going to be a hearing or not. Good waitress, please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U233	Thank you. The circle of people involved in the process of planning is also an unnecessary source of inquisitiveness. Any person, organisation or company may determine the area and the way in which they communicate with themselves and shall then be involved in the processing of any planning which is within the area determined on any basis of their choice. The number of areas to be developed will be reduced, as instead of existing buildings, the local authority may simply protect urban areas, valuable agricultural areas and individual objects that can be defined on any basis. The defense can only be completed at the earliest with the next general plan. The concepts are also confusing and it gives a lot of bread to lawyers, but unfortunately it does not accelerate construction. The main advantage of the draft has been that it is now possible to build a house between existing buildings without planning. However, this possibility exists in exactly the same context and wording today in the law. There has been a reduction in the possibility of building up on the basis of a 33% extension right. There is no longer any need for coordination with the local government. The state can carry through some fine line objects and if, elsewhere, some compensation and assistance are provided to local authorities so that they can adjust their infrastructure, we will not be willing to do so. The planning law is certainly excessively restricting the right of self-regulation of the local government. The spatial planning of the municipality's territory is one of the main expressions of the right to self-order, so it is not justified that the municipality may terminate the planning procedure initiated only in limited cases. The planning process may also reveal that the realization of the plan will entail significant additional costs for the municipality. For example, the realisation of the plan may lead to the creation of additional kindergarten or school places or to the reconstruction of existing infrastructure outside the planning area or to the construction of new infrastructure. In such a situation, it must also be possible for the local authority to close the proceedings, if necessary, if the person interested in the proceedings does not agree to compensate the local authority for the additional costs. I believe that this list of deficiencies is already sufficient to support the adoption of the planning law. The Fatherland and Res Publica Union do not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U234	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Dear colleagues, I will put draft 571 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 27 votes to 18 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. Draft Planning Act 571 initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed as a law. The seventh item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U235	The eighth item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No, I don't. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 789 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 58 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The draft law amending the Waste Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 789 has been adopted as a law. The eighth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U236	The ninth item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Liquid Fuel and ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No, I don't. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 675 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 51 delegates in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Draft Act 675 amending the Law on Liquid Fuels and the Law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The ninth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U237	The tenth item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No, I don't. We are going to prepare the final vote. I will put draft 740 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 52 members of the Riigikogu, no one against and 2 abstentions. Draft 740 Act amending the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The 10th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U238	Let's move on to item 11. The third reading of the draft law amending the Alcohol Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No, I don't. We are going to prepare the final vote. I will put draft 723 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 58 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. The draft law amending the Alcohol Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 723 has been passed as a law. The 11th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U239	Let's go to the 12th item. The second reading of the draft law amending the Rail Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Member of the Economic Commission, Deniss Borodichi!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U240	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I can't talk so fast, I'll talk at a slower pace. I would like to remind you that the Government of the Republic initiated this draft on 1 December last year. The first reading took place on 17 December and the deadline for tabling amendments, which was s. a On 5 January, no amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups. However, some proposals were submitted by the initiator's representative. As these amendments were mostly worded and technical, they were all supported by consensus. We took the following procedural decisions: to send the draft to the plenary for second reading by 28 January 2015, to propose the end of the second reading and, when the second reading is closed, to propose a third reading on 11 February 2015 and to put the draft to the final vote. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U241	Good waitress, thank you. There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Nine amendments to the draft 806 have been received. Let's start reviewing them. All the amendments have been tabled by the commission: the first, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth, the seventh, the eighth and the ninth amendments. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the 12th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U242	Let's move on to item 13. The second reading of the draft National Defence Act 772 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I request the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the National Defence Commission Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U243	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft National Defence Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 10 November. I would remind you that the main objective of the draft is to ensure Estonia's better preparedness to respond to modern security threats, and the draft combines the current law of peacetime and wartime defence and the law of international military cooperation. Ten formal amendments to the draft were tabled after the first reading. In addition, opinions were received from organisations and persons and proposals from members of the Commission. In total, 80 proposals were made for the text in different formats. Before sending the draft to second reading, the National Defence Committee discussed all 80 proposals in four sessions. Representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces also attended the meetings of the Commission and heard the opinion of the Assembly of Reserve Officers. As a result of the discussions, the Commission decided to take full or partial account of four formal amendments and to submit 31 additional proposals. In short, I will comment on the proposals that have been supported. First of all, two proposals, during which the Commission considered the draft to be compatible with the Constitution, are those which also concern the Riigikogu. The first proposal amends the rules of procedure of the Riigikogu, namely the replacement of the President of the Republic by the Deputy Chairman of the Riigikogu. It was specifically stated in the draft that the vice-chairman must be in the role of the President of the Riigikogu at the time of replacing the President and that the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu cannot replace the President simply if the President of the Riigikogu is not himself on the job, but only if there are certain circumstances. In order for the Vice-President of the Riigikogu to be able to replace the President, the President of the Riigikogu must be unable to perform his duties, for example because of illness. At the same time, being on the mission of the Chairman does not mean that the vice-chairman of the Riigikogu will assume the duties of President. The second proposal amends the Government of the Republic Act so that the Minister can take office in the future by taking an oath to the President of the Riigikogu. This can only be done on an urgent basis and when the Riigikogu sessions are not held. The regulation so far contained in the draft, according to which the entire government was able to take office by taking an oath to the President of the Riigikogu, was not considered possible by the Commission due to a contradiction with the Constitution. Other proposals taken into account by the Commission concern, for example, the competence of the Riigikogu to decide whether to send the Defence Forces to missions, the competence of the Commander of the Defence Forces to release the active military members of the Defence League during mobilisation and martial law, the wearing of uniforms of the Defence Forces and the release of a person working in a defence official or post from compulsory employment. In addition, the Commission has taken into account a number of proposals aimed at clarifying, clarifying and clarifying the text and excluding the possibility of multiple interpretations. As regards the amendments and other opinions which were not supported, the reasons for not taking them into account can be divided into five groups. Firstly, the Committee on National Defence and the author of the draft consider that the National Defence Act does not have to cover the entire regime and does not have to repeat the provisions of other laws. The draft has been drawn up on the basis of the principle that the draft concerns the management of national defence, but other areas, including the national defence tasks of the authorities, are governed by specific laws. The second principle on which it was based is that all institutions and persons are also performing their peacetime tasks during times of crisis and war. For example, the Commission did not consider it appropriate to repeat that the courts, the prosecutor's office and the barrister's office are also active during the time of increased preparedness and martial law. Secondly, the Commission did not consider it necessary or appropriate to include in the Act declaratory provisions that formulate major objectives but do not regulate national defence. For example, the Commission did not consider it necessary to repeat the principles of the functioning of national defence, which are better suited to the strategy papers. For the same reason, the Commission did not support the proposal No 8 on the list of proposals, which was intended to supplement the Riigikogu's regulation of the termination of martial law with the condition that martial law can be declared terminated only if the principle of independence, independence, inestimability and inalienability of the state is guaranteed. These principles are already enshrined in the first paragraph of the Constitution and the Riigikogu cannot conflict with them in making its decision anyway. Thirdly, the Commission did not support the proposals that the law would have been designed to regulate the internal organisation of the government, such as the one consulted by the Minister before the meeting of the Government or the decision of the Security Committee of the Government of the Republic, or which official will inform the UN Security Council of the declaration of martial law in Estonia. Fourthly, the Commission did not take into account these proposals, which still require further analysis and a holistic approach. The initiators of the draft act have already identified issues related to the implementation of the National Defence Act but not yet regulated and planned to be dealt with after the adoption of the law. Among other things, it is planned to review the laws governing legal proceedings and the regulation of debt relationships and obligations. Finally, the Commission did not support the proposals that would have required the amendment of the Constitution, for example, the proposal to grant the government the right to declare martial law could not be taken into account. The Commission also discussed issues relating to the involvement of the Defence Forces and the Defence Union in the implementation of their law enforcement tasks and did not support proposals for future decision-making on the involvement of the Defence Forces and the Defence Union at a lower level than is currently the case, for example by a local constable, as proposed, without a time limit or prior establishment of the number of persons to be involved. Since participation in law enforcement activities is not the main activity of the Defence Forces and the Defence League and the bringing of the army to the streets must be an emergency measure and remain so, such a decision must continue to be made at a high political level with certain restrictions. The Commission therefore supported the maintenance of the current situation, which means that the decision of the Government is not enough to involve the Defence Forces and the Defence Union, but that the President must also give his consent. At its meeting on 19 January, the Commission decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda for the second reading by 28 January and to propose that the second reading be closed. On 26 January, the Commission approved the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U244	Any questions for the waitress? It is. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U245	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the National Defence Commission! § 35 of the draft law discusses the conditions under which the presence of foreign armed forces in Estonia is possible. Here's five points. I'd like you to comment on that. We know the United States soldiers are on our territory. Which of these five points regulates it, and how do you comment on their presence here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U246	What exactly do you want to know? I have this § 35 open, it says here all: foreign armed forces may be temporarily present on the territory of the Republic of Estonia on the basis of the conditions laid down in this Act, if its purpose is to participate in an operation, exercise, military headquarters activities, if this is due to transit or the planning and implementation of defence projects.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U247	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U248	Mr. Chairman of the National Defence Commission! Until now, the decisions on the basis of which the Estonian Defence Forces go on some foreign missions have always been confirmed in the large hall of the Riigikogu. They have received consensual support on the vast majority, some have also had more lively discussions. What is the reason that it will no longer be possible to discuss every specific mission in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu? It seems to me that Parliament is being deprived of the opportunity to take part in this large Chamber on the issue of the feasibility of each individual mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U249	Thank you. No, they won't. It is still based on Parliament's preliminary ruling and the opinion of the National Defence Committee will also be heard. But there is no point in making ourselves too important here when urgent decisions are needed. In any case, Parliament is not the operational leader of national defence and decisions should not remain behind it. That's the point. But there is a general mandate for Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U250	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U251	There has been a situation where some small groups did not have a representative in the Committee on National Defence. Consequently, they were completely excluded from the coordination circles. The question is, what should a prior general mandate look like? What does it look like in form when the Estonian state decides on a posting?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U252	Thank you. It is governed by a decision of the Riigikogu. But no political group can participate in this Parliament more than what has helped them to achieve the electorate. Everyone decides where he places his troops here in the Riigikogu. After all, it is always possible to exchange members on committees. According to the Rules of Procedure, it is also possible to attend meetings of the other Commission. So there's no danger that a minority doesn't know or can't participate, but in the end, the majority will decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U253	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U254	Thank you, manager. I'm still talking about § 35. I understand the National Defence Committee's glasses are here. Perhaps you will still comment on my question about § 35 of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U255	Thank you. I have nothing to comment on but what I read earlier. I didn't understand the question. You say comment on § 35, I say I don't understand what I have to say when it says black in white. This list contains five points in extremely clear language. With the help of the others, I'll be better able to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U256	Tarmo Pine, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U257	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I've been closely involved in national defence before, that's why I'm interested. As we know, in the event of aggression, the President declares martial law and mobilization. Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations provides that the Security Council is to be informed thereof. Under the Peacetime National Defence Act, the President of the Security Council is informing me, but I didn't find this place in this law, but I found out that he was declaring martial law. Was this problem discussed in the Commission? There's still a bit of a hole in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U258	Thank you. There's no law hole. It is not the object of this law to regulate exactly which institution communicates with the UN. We have an ambassador at the United Nations. It's a direct channel. There is no need to clarify or narrow down diplomatic channels. In a war situation, the problem is that these canals are not too narrow. As long as the information gets there.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U259	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U260	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This National Defence Act is a good example of the ability of operational lawmaking and cross-party cooperation in Estonia. As we know, the international situation has changed dramatically over the past year. Therefore, regardless of our own will, we have come to a situation where various events may knock on our door sooner than we would like, or rather they may knock on our door regardless of whether we want it or not. We have all seen that national defence tasks in terms of war and peace are fundamentally changing their nature. Also, in the sense that we are accustomed to a conventional war, where two countries officially declare hostilities against each other, force units into combat readiness, and then one or the other side attacks. In today's war, it doesn't tend to be like this anymore. That is why, in a changed situation, we had to deal with quite a lot of quite complex tasks when we were dealing with the draft National Defence Act, which perhaps would have required a slightly longer debate. Indeed, this law left out the question raised by interest groups regarding the trial during the war. As we know, people's rights are, in any case, limited during wartime. What about deserters, marauders, and other people who are trying to further destabilise the situation? Regulation of all this is certainly important within the meaning of the law, but the modern classic judicial system does not allow it. The second issue that was left out in the procedure of this bill, but which could actually be part of this law, is the imposition of compulsory charges. As we know, the crisis situation undoubtedly brings about a situation where our assets, too, may be subject to acts that we may not like as the owner of the property. However, in general terms, we were able, at first, to make the situation more or less regulated by a rather thin law with diligent cooperation. There were many debates about how our society dealt with the Defence League, which operates with a high will for defence. The role of the Defence Union in this law was certainly one of the most advanced approaches, as the role of the Defence Union in the original version was rather modest. There was also a lot of controversy about this situation when a volunteer goes in different situations to carry out his or her duties and wears a uniform to protect a country. Then who is he? If he doesn't have a uniform, it's as if he shouldn't be shot, but if he's wearing a uniform, he could be shot even on a bus, because he's wearing army marks. That's the kind of emotional thing that came out. However, it can be said broadly that what is important is that the legislator has been able to respond to the changes in the world. We have managed to comply with one of the framework laws, which gives us the opportunity to move forward and make the next Riigikogu membership more and better. In any case, we can firmly confirm that this law gives us the opportunity to look to the future in a more secure way, that there should therefore be much less suspension in our country. I hope that all political parties will understand that national defence is a place where we do not do politics, but we are all like brothers and sisters to support each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U261	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U262	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft National Defence Act is still crude in many respects, which is why I am about to say that the Centre Party does not support the adoption of the Act in this form. We propose that the second reading be interrupted and we point out that the decision-making power of the Riigikogu on security issues is again reduced, in this case in the decision-making process of sending state defence forces to a foreign mission. At the same time, the draft leaves open a number of important issues, such as the protection of the population and the organisation of sustainable services for life during wartime. The draft does not provide for a legal mechanism that is sufficiently rapid to enable the Defence League and the Defence Forces to support police in the fight against hybrid threats during peacetime. The process envisaged is too long, according to the experts, and the situation can therefore become much more complex before the relevant authorisation has been granted. There is also concern about the substantive prohibition of the Defence Union's own-initiative armed resistance. The Defence League, now over 14,000, has only a fraction of the wartime structure. The bill does not provide that a defence ally who is not in the post of wartime may stand up to his or her enemy in the courtyard on his or her own. The bill seems to forget that today's wars do not just take place on the front line, and the opponent uses all the methods to throw his troops behind our main units. Several of the defence units currently in existence in the Defence League would be an important addition to the rejection of such an opponent at every point in Estonia. The illegality of the previous approach is also directly contrary to the foundations of the security policy adopted in 2010 and to the defence strategy. The latter directs armed resistance also in the busy areas of the opponent. The problem is that, without this provision, the resistance fighters do not enjoy international combat status. They are not legal fighters and may be convicted as criminals in the event of an opponent's imprisonment. On the one hand, the policy document obliges us to oppose it, but the draft law under discussion prohibits it from doing so. This is not, in our view, a very sensible situation. Despite the shortcomings, the coalition wants to adopt the law in a hurry. If you do, we ask you to vote in favour of one very important amendment, which gives us the assurance that 1939 will not happen again. The proposal is to change the procedure for ending martial law so that no one can put an end to this situation until the whole of Estonia is free again. § 21 of the Bill should be worded as follows: 'The rule of war ends when the Riigikogu, acting on a proposal from the President of the Republic, declares the martial law to be terminated if the principle of the independence and independence of the state is guaranteed and the inalienability and inalienability of the state is guaranteed. ' This wording precludes, for example, a situation where the opponent, through the President who has been taken hostage or members of the Riigikogu, is putting pressure on the state to surrender. Our amendment precludes any surrender to the aggressor and the assignment of Estonian territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U263	More... Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U264	Thank you. My small line is driven by the speech of Lauri Laas. I would ask the Riigikogu to support the Commission's views. What he proposes is a declaratory provision which actually duplicates the positions of the Constitution. I do not think there is any point in writing in the law the possibility that the President is not a patriot or does not comply with the Constitution. Please support the Commission's position.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U265	There are no further requests to speak. Finally, and for the verbatim report, although all members of the Riigikogu may speak at second reading, the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union considered it necessary for Aivar Riisalu to speak on their behalf. It's now in the verbatim. I'm closing the negotiations. There are 40 amendments in total, we will examine them. The proposals of the National Defence Committee, which I am reading here, are, of course, fully taken into account. The first is from the National Defence Commission; the second is from the National Defence Commission; the third is from the National Defence Commission; the fourth is from the National Defence Commission; the fifth is from the National Defence Commission; the sixth is from the National Defence Commission; the seventh is from the National Defence Commission; the eighth is from the National Defence Commission; the ninth is from the National Defence Commission; the tenth is from the National Defence Commission; the eleven are from the National Defence Commission. Amendment 12 is from the Centre Party Group and has been disregarded. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U266	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U267	Thank you. Let us put this amendment to the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the 12th amendment tabled by the Central Party Group, which has been rejected by the National Defence Committee. Please take a stand and vote. There are 16 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal and 38 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 13th amendment is from the Committee on National Defence and has been fully taken into account, the 14th amendment is from the Central Party Group, has not been taken into account, but according to § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure Act, it is not a vote, the 15th amendment is from the Committee on National Defence, the 16th amendment is from the Committee on National Defence, the 17th amendment is from the Committee on National Defence, the 18th amendment is from the Central Party Group and is partially taken into account, the 19th amendment is from the Committee on National Defence, the 20th amendment is from the Committee on National Defence, the 21st amendment is from the Group of the Centre Party and is partially taken into account, the 22nd amendment is from Neeme Suur, Aivar Riisalu and Innar Mäesalu and it is partly taken into account, the 23rd amendment is from the Committee on National Defence, the 24th amendment is from the Committee on National Defence, the 25th amendment is from the Committee on National Defence, the 26th amendment is from the Committee on Defence, the 27th amendment is from the Committee on National Defence, the 28th amendment is from the Committee on National Defence, the 29th amendment is from the Committee on Defence, the 29th amendment is from the Committee on National Defence, Amendment is from the Committee on National Defence, Amendment 30 is from the Committee on National Defence, Amendment is from the Committee on National Defence, Amendment is from the Committee on Defence, 30 is from the Committee on National Defence. Amendment 31 is from the Central Party Group, has not been taken into account, but is not subject to vote under § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure Act, Amendment 32 is from the Central Party Group, has not been taken into consideration and is not subject to vote, Amendment 33 is from the Central Party Group, Amendment 34 is from the Committee on National Defence, Amendment 35 is from the Committee on National Defence, Amendment 36 is from the Committee on National Defence, Amendment 37 is from the Central Party Group and is partially taken into account, Amendment 38 is from the Committee on National Defence, Amendment 39 is from the Committee on National Defence and Amendment 40 is also from the Committee on National Defence. We have examined the amendments. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of draft 772, but the Centre Party Group has proposed to suspend the second reading of the draft. We'll vote on it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft National Defence Act 772. Please take a stand and vote. Eight members of the Riigikogu were in favour of this proposal and 48 were against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Second reading of bill 772 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U268	The next item is the second reading of the Act amending the General Part of the Environmental Code, the Forest Act and the Water Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur for the Environment Committee is Rainer Vakra, chairman of the committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U269	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 10 November 2014. The first reading was closed on 3 December and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 17 December. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees on the draft. The Committee on the Environment finalised four Commission amendments. Between the first and second readings, the draft has been dealt with twice at Commission meetings: 26 January and 19 January 2015. Representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, the Estonian Owners' Confederation and the Estonian Private Forest Association of MTÜ participated in these meetings and explained their proposals for the draft. Amendment 1 amends the title of the draft. Amendment 2 is very fundamental. According to this, an engine or off-road vehicle may be present on a foreign parcel only with the authorisation of the owner of the plot. The existence of a permit cannot be automatically assumed, but must actually exist. Amendment 3 is editorial, the word 'access' is replaced by 'access'. Amendment 4 deletes paragraphs 2 and 5 from the draft as they are no longer necessary because, because of the urgency of this amendment, the Committee on the Environment has already previously initiated a draft law amending the law implementing the General Part of the Environmental Code Act and the amendment has become legal. At the meeting of the Committee on the Environment on 19 January, the following procedural decisions were also made: firstly, to send draft 771 for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu (consensually), secondly, to propose that the second reading be closed (consensually), thirdly, when the second reading of the draft is closed, to propose that the third reading of the draft 771 be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 11 February 2015 (consensually), fourthly, to propose that the draft be put to the final vote (consensually). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U270	Questions for the waitress. Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U271	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on the Environment. You mentioned here the point of not being on the property with a motor vehicle. But how should the landlord behave when, for example, animals come to the property? I mean pets, cows, bulls or sheep. What should a person do to get rid of them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U272	Thank you, Mr Vice-Chairman, for a very good question. We have, as we know, discussed this in the Commission. The answer was one and simple: it would be wise to contact the owner of the animals and ask him to return these animals, sheep or cows, to the barn.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U273	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U274	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good waitress! I am not a member of the Committee on the Environment and I admit that I am currently relying on what you have said that a land vehicle must not be on the property without the permission of the landowner. Estonia is known to have a very complex ownership structure. All estates have owners and there are very few white spots. Of course, there are also public roads. Don't you think that's a bit too strict a restriction? If, for example, I travel in a very deep forest mass while hunting, I am unable to find out, without special procedure, who owns the land. Isn't that an excessive siege?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U275	Thank you. Speaking of hunting, we assume, based on the new hunting law, that hunters have landowners' coordination. This means that, of course, this is also the case for motor vehicles.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U276	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U277	Thank you. I will return to my original question. In a beautiful world, it happens that when animals are accidentally released, the owner is identified. But how should people behave when the owner is malicious, has not enough land to shepherd their animals, and lets them loose freely? What are they supposed to do to get the problem solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U278	Thank you. The shortest answer to you, Mr. Arrow, is call the Environmental Inspectorate, dig them and call them in.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U279	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U280	I'm still bullying with that question. If this happens, is it not a restriction? For example, I have a piece of land, but I don't know where it is either, because some railroad makes me unable to access it, access is very difficult. If someone drives off-road there, for example, I can't even find out. But we're writing in the law such a provision, it seems to me, a little too restrictive. Don't you think there's too much regulation here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U281	Thank you. This is not the case, according to the Commission's consensual decision. As far as forest roads, both private roads and public roads are concerned, it is permissible to drive there. Indeed, the Commission consensually felt that this was a reasonable provision. In the future, motor vehicle drivers could and should have a permit, i.e. landowner coordination.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U282	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U283	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission. In the case of private land, I fully understand this logic; the owner's consent is obviously necessary and justified there. But what about state land? If I'm driving an ATV there, who am I supposed to ask permission from? Doesn't that get very bureaucratic? Does this limit also apply to water bodies under ice in winter? If you want to drive ATV across a small pond or lake owned by the state, do you have to have a permit every time? My own property is limited to a small pond owned by the state, and on the other side there is a private land where I have permission to move. Can I drive across this lake, and do I have to have permission every time I do it? What about the state land, was it also discussed in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U284	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U285	Firstly, on this point, the Committee on the Environment was based on the fact that, unfortunately, there are a great many people who do not cross the pond once from one parcel to another, but enjoy the ATV safari in the natural environment, turning the ground backwards, without any permission or consent. Consequently, the Committee on the Environment supported this proposal in order to enable these offenders to be brought to justice in the future. I repeat, all forest roads and forest trails will continue to be open. As far as state land is concerned, I believe that the forest manager, or RMK, should be contacted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U286	Thank you. You've been working on a bill at the committee. You said you believed we should turn to RMK. However, it is not always forest land; it is often either farmland or water, as I mentioned in the example of the lake. Then I have no reason to turn to RMK. I asked if there was a discussion on how the state should deal with it. My fear is still the over-byrocratisation that we want to fight against. With bureaucracy, we will also make the country more costly. Are you convinced that this application and processing of the permit is also essential in the country of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U287	Kalev Kallemets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U288	The Commission heard representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, the Estonian Owners' Confederation and the Estonian Private Forest Association. The Commission consensually concluded that this is the case, yes, it is true.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U289	Thank you. Dear waitress, My question is on the same subject. How is this permit to be completed, in plain writing form? If electronic coordination is used, does this authorisation have to be digitally signed or is electronic mail sufficient?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U290	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. There are four amendments to the draft, all from the commission and all of them have been taken into account. There are no other proposals, only the lead committee has proposed to stop the second reading of draft 771. The second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U291	Not having to be digitally signed or signed, a verbal permit is enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U292	The next item is the second reading of the Act amending the Local Government Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Local Government Election Act 788. The rapporteur for the Constitutional Commission is Väino Linde. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U293	Have a pleasant evening, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. We recall that according to the draft, the Local Government Organisation Act and the Local Government Council Election Act are amended and these changes are of an organisational nature. After the first reading, the Commission reviewed the draft, which it did on 20 January. The amendments, by the deadline of 6 January, did not come to the Commission's desk from colleagues, political groups or committees. However, the Commission itself unanimously decided at its meeting on 20 January to table three amendments to this draft. Two of them had prepared our commission advisor and the corresponding department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. The third came from the proposal of a good colleague, Priit Toobal. In fact, the current Local Government Council Election Act provides that for the election of a new local government council unit, the district committees are to be formed by consensual decisions of the councils of the acceding municipalities. This basically means that precinct committees must be set up before political parties and electoral alliances have become known. Therefore, the current regime does not provide for the possibility for political parties to submit their candidates to the Election Commission in the event of such mergers and extraordinary elections. Now, with the third amendment, we have changed this procedure and we foresee that the formation of precinct committees will be entrusted with the competence of a municipal or city electoral committee, which will also have to ensure that political parties' electoral federations are represented in the precinct committees. That should solve this problem. The first and second amendments are technical and have only been made so that the draft can be better understood. Amendment 1 provides for the provision to be replaced and moved to the second place. Proposal No 2 means rewording the position already in the draft in order to make the point unambiguous. In the end, the Commission decided with complete unanimity to propose to us, good members of the Riigikogu, that the second reading be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U294	There are no questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U295	It's been great.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U296	I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. There are three amendments to the draft, all from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and all taken into account. The proposals have been examined. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U297	The next item is the second reading of draft law 809 on the amendment of the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. The rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is Andres Herkel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U298	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the law on foreigners and related amendments to other laws 809 was discussed by the Commission at its meeting on 20 January. This hearing was quite long, it lasted almost an hour. I will present the proceedings on the basis of a document entitled 'Aid material for the rapporteur' and intended for internal use. There are nine pages in this document, and I will not read it out, but let me say here that I am surprised that we are all about the recordings of the meetings of the Riigikogu committees, these documents are largely forgotten. It is an invaluable material for the Commission's discussion and an invaluable aid to the Commission's rapporteur. Perhaps the whole process of discussion does not deserve to be read here, but it should be preserved in such a written form. So, apart from the members of the Commission, five advisers from the Citizenship and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior (Laura Sofia Annus, Ele Russak, Ly Pärn, Mariann Kirsipuu, Mariko Jõeorg), Eero Janson, who represented the Round Table of Refugee Organisations, a total of three NGOs involved in assisting refugees and asylum seekers, and Triin Saag from the Welfare Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Commission discussed the comments of the Round Table of Refugee Organisations, which concerned in particular access to the labour market for asylum seekers. In particular, Mr Janson stressed that access to the labour market is a universal human right and its limitations must be proportionate. In short, his aim was to further shorten the six-month waiting period for the right to work. There was a rather long debate on this in the Commission. It was recognised that this law significantly reduces waiting times before entering the labour market. Asylum seekers will have six months. So far, we, as well as some other Member States of the European Union, have had a 12-month waiting period, but according to the European Union Reception Conditions Directive, which entered into force in 2013, this waiting period must not exceed nine months in the Member States. During the debate, Estonia was found to be taking a relatively long step. In particular, the councillors of the Ministry of the Interior did so, so that there should not be a situation in which people are unduly applying for asylum, wishing to gain access to the labour market, although they do not really have a real need for protection. It was also stressed that before a person can enter the labour market at all, a number of other measures supporting his or her integration (language training, etc.) function. The arguments were put forward in favour and against, but there was consensus that the Commission would not propose an amendment. The table of amendments contains a total of five proposals, the first two being worded, and the fourth and fifth can be considered rather technical. However, I would like to point out the amendment under Table 3. This concerns the introduction of disciplinary measures in the Aliens Act in order to enable those sanctions to be applied at the detention centre. This was one of the key points that I presented on behalf of the Commission during the first-reading debate, as this issue had been discussed in the Commission. In fact, it is now the case that from time to time these people must be disciplined, but it can only be done in the face of immediate danger. As the councillors of the Ministry of the Interior have explained to us, not always is the violation and non-compliance of the detention centre's internal rules related to the person's real and immediate danger to others. There are plenty of cases where, for example, someone beats a tin mug against the wall all night, ruining the night's peace in an unbearable way, and disciplinary sanctions are appropriate. During the debate on the first reading of the draft proposal, the scope of disciplinary action in the Commission raised serious questions. The original version of the draft was intended to introduce, in plain language, up to two weeks of cartels, which would probably be excessive in today's society and circumstances. The Commission took the view, while considering the wording of the amendment, that such placement of a person in a separated and locked room would not last more than 48 hours, which we have in general and universal terms. No one can be deprived of liberty for a long time without a decision of the court. Since a number of other things were included in the list of disciplinary sanctions, such as the ban on shopping, we also argued about this. The Commission decided that the ban on smoking, once again expressed in simple language, should not last longer than one month. In the original version of the draft, which came from the Ministry, this time was somewhat longer. So, in the table of the amendments, proposal No 3 has an extremely substantial weight. Proposal No 5 concerns the Identity Documents Act and the issuance of the e-resident's digital identity card through foreign representations and the amendment that allows the application of the e-resident's digital identity card to be made with a single customer contact. The deadline for the entry into force of this law was 1 April. It was decided, by consensus, to send the draft to the 809 sittings on the agenda by 28 January and to propose that the Riigikogu stop the second reading of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U299	No questions for the waitress. Thank you, Andres Herkel! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Five amendments to the draft have been tabled, all from the lead committee and all of them have been taken into account. They need to be revised: the first, second, third, fourth and fifth amendments. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of draft 809. The second reading of bill 809 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U300	Now we will continue to read the second reading of the 555 draft building code initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur for the Economic Commission is Deniss Borodich. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U301	President of the sitting! Colleagues! Again, I'm going to tell you a little bit about history. The Government of the Republic initiated this draft on 9 December 2013. The first reading took place in this Chamber on 25 February 2014 and the first reading was closed. The second reading of the bill in Riigikogu's plenary session took place on 3 December last year and the second reading was interrupted on the proposal of the commission. The second reading continued s. On 14 January 2004 and despite the Commission's proposal to conclude the second reading, the Riigikogu decided to interrupt the second reading of the draft plenary session once more. In the meantime, amendments could be tabled. They were made by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, as well as by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the amendments to the draft and the continuation of the second reading at its meeting. a January 22nd. I bring out the most important amendments. The Commission's proposal No 5 proposed to amend § 25 (3) of the draft and to add a quantitative limit where one competent person may act at the same time with several undertakings. Under the amendment, a person may not simultaneously act as a competent person for more than three undertakings. The proposal was submitted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union had a relatively similar proposal. The same proposal had also been submitted to the Commission in the previous debate on the continuation of the second reading of the draft. The Commission did not support the proposal at that time, in particular as a result of the possible incompatibility of the proposal with the Constitution. Now, after several negotiations with representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications as well as with lawyers, it tended to think that there was no danger. The proposal was therefore supported by the Commission. There were other proposals, but most of them were of a technical nature. The procedural decisions were as follows: It was decided to send the draft to the full for a second reading. a By 28 January, i.e. today, to propose that the second reading be stopped and, if the second reading is completed, we will be proposing a third reading on 11 February and putting the draft to the final vote on 555. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U302	No questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. No one wants to talk. There have been 11 amendments to the draft 555; we will review them. The first amendment is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; it has been disregarded, pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, that proposal is not to be voted on. The second amendment is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance, which has been disregarded. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U303	On behalf of the IRL Group, I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U304	Got it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 2, made by the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union, which has been disregarded by the commission of directors. Please take a stand and vote. There were 9 members of the Riigikogu in favour of Amendment 2, 34 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The third amendment is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and has been disregarded. The fourth amendment is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance and has been taken into account in substance. The fifth amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the sixth from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the seventh from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the eighth from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the ninth from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the tenth from the Committee on Economic Affairs and the eleventh from the Committee on Economic Affairs. The Committee on Economic Affairs has proposed to conclude the second reading of draft 555. There are no other proposals. Second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U305	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Gambling Act, the Media Services Act and the Advertising Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur for the Economic Commission is Kalle Palling. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U306	President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated this draft on 13 October last year, the first reading took place on 10 December and no amendments were tabled by 12 noon on 29 December. The working group of the Economic Commission prepared the draft for a meeting of the Commission at its meeting on 21 January, with the participation of a representative of the initiator. Before the second reading, the Commission discussed the draft at its meeting on 26 and 27 January with representatives of the Ministry of Finance. The Commission decided to propose five amendments to the draft, four of which had been submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs by the Ministry of Finance. Now for more details on the amendments. The first amendment allows the Tax and Customs Board to communicate with gambling operators via the e-Tax Board. The Administrative Procedure Act currently in force as a general law allows the document to be delivered electronically only by sending it to an e-mail address. As mentioned earlier, this amendment was tabled by the Ministry of Finance. Amendment 2 lists gambling to which the requirements of the Gambling Act do not apply. It adds a point 3 which mentions a lottery with a winning fund value of up to EUR 1000 and which is not organised more frequently than once a week. Lotteries such as those held at weddings or birthdays are not considered gambling in the future either. Amendment 3 corrects technical reference errors. Amendment 4 adds an examination of the premises to the special measures that the Tax and Customs Board may use for the purposes of national supervision. According to the originator, the special measure is necessary to verify compliance with the requirements of Chapter 3 of the Gambling Act and allows the review of a limited or marked immovable property, building or space held by a person without the consent of the holder, including the examination of a property located there and the opening of doors, gates or other obstacles. Amendment 5 concerns the deadlines for entry into force. Members of the Commission, Toomas Tõniste and Kalle Palling, also tabled one amendment. Toomas Tõniste's proposal was to exclude the extension of advertising opportunities, if that is the case. It deals with what is envisaged as one of the amendments to the draft proposal that in the future the possibilities of lottery advertising will no longer be restricted to the extent that the current regime provides for. The Commission did not support this proposal. An amendment was tabled by this remote speaker to remove the regulation of the self-exclusion list from the draft, but this amendment was not supported by the Commission either. So that's what it's like. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to send the draft to second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 28 January and to propose that the second reading be terminated. The Commission also decided that if the second reading was completed, the draft could be put to the final vote on 11 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U307	I understood from the rapporteur, looking at the table of amendments, that the last two amendments were tabled orally by the members of the committee during the debate and not by the time the amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U308	Yeah, right.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U309	Questions for the waitress. Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U310	Thank you. These proposals were indeed presented to the Commission to present them in this Chamber as proposals from the Commission. The discussion at first reading showed the concerns of very many members of the Riigikogu that it would be possible to start advertising lotteries, which would increase the number of potential gambling addicts, and in return we would receive the money to treat these people. Please explain the debate that has taken place in the Commission also for those in this Chamber. What were the reasons why the representatives of the Ministry of Finance did not support the maintenance of advertising restrictions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U311	I will describe this debate, where both of the amendments tabled during the debate were at issue. One of them was presented by myself and the other by a respected questioner. In fact, this is, on the one hand, an extension of advertising opportunities; these opportunities also apply to lottery and sports predictions. On the other hand, a self-exclusivity list has been introduced on the proposal of the initiator of the draft. These very potential gambling addicts can add themselves to the self-exclusivity list. A person can add himself to it for a minimum of six months and a maximum of two years. This self-exclusion list is a balancing measure in order to balance the increased opportunities for advertising by drawing people's attention to the fact that it is, however, playing with money, gambling. If a person really feels that he or she might have problems with it, a self - out list is one way to help yourself. But as you remember from the first-reading debate, every advertisement must be preceded by a warning, an explanation of exactly what the game is, what the winning fund is, and so on. So here are two compensatory measures. The initiator of the draft act made it very clear that if one of the amendments that we tabled, such as the deletion of the self-exclusion list from the draft, had been supported, the initiator would have withdrawn the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U312	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U313	Thank you. What you're saying is absolutely unbelievable. There is a plan to increase gambling advertising and, on the other hand, to say that it is still a bad thing too, and if a person feels that he is becoming an addict, he better not. Well, the compensatory measures indeed! I read from publicly available materials that you have pointed out the benefits of Estonian Loto as one of the important sources of coverage of the Reform Party's cultural programme. Is this the policy on which you want to finance culture, that you encourage gambling and hope that you will receive this money from Loto Estonia? I'm still asking if you think this bill is responsible. I dare say it's immoral.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U314	I am here as a representative of the Commission, and I must say that there was no such debate in the committee. However, my personal view is that I have tabled an amendment to that effect, that a disproportionate measure is, for example, a self-exclusion list. But it is true that Estonian Loto is currently paying and has probably paid a very significant amount to the Estonian state budget as a dividend for seven years. About 20 million euros is the amount that Eesti Loto pays each year as a dividend. After all, whether or not the expansion of advertising opportunities will increase this dividend payment is a sign of time. The important thing, in my opinion, is that regulation becomes clearer, how and at what time can be advertised and why, for example, advertising before a lottery show is better than advertising before a TV series. That commercial wasn't banned before.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U315	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U316	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I had the same personal question when I listened to the question of Kaia Iva, because you obviously did not discuss it in the committee. Do you believe the party that just let the draft restricting SMS loans fail that they're worried about self-regulation and the possible advertising of soft gambling? What is your personal opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U317	Thank you. As I said in my previous reply, I do not dare to predict the link between better advertising opportunities and the increase in dividend payments. That's why I think it's arbitrary to stick these things together. I must agree that this concern may not be very sincere.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U318	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U319	Thank you. I too asked a question by listening to this presentation. Therefore, since one of the proposals made by the Commission was not supported, I understand that the self-exclusion list was considered by the Commission to be a 'balance' measure. However, as you mentioned at the beginning of your report, or even in the middle of the report, a Member of the Commission has proposed to delete the self-exclusion list from the draft. What were the arguments put forward by the Member of the Commission, why should this be done, and what were the arguments against the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U320	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Today, it is such a nice coincidence that the rapporteur of the Commission and the author of this amendment are the same person and can now respond immediately. The main consideration that forced me to submit this proposal was the position expressed by the Ministry of Justice on 31 July: '... Having regard to the fact that the proposed amendment to the draft concerns an estimated 460920 persons who will have to identify themselves to the operator of gambling (e.g. by means of an ID card) in order to verify whether they have not entered an exclusion list, the fact that their personal data will also be transferred and stored during the abovementioned verification in the database established in accordance with HasMS § 39 (1) and the fact that approximately 3000 persons, i.e. 0,65% of all persons playing classic lotteries, have been included in the said database on their own initiative since its creation in 2009, cannot be considered proportionate in any way to the intended measure, the effect of extending the list of persons with gambling restrictions cannot be extended to cover classical lotteries. ' As far as I know, the Ministry of Justice in the Republic of Estonia is the most competent ministry who can make such statements, and they must be taken very seriously. While Mr Õunapuu explained during the Commission's debate that a compromise was reached at the government meeting that this draft could be supported and the Minister of Justice personally did not oppose it, I would point out that it was only recently on 31 July last year, and probably then the good officials of the Ministry of Justice really were concerned whether it was a proportionate measure or not. In my opinion, if a Viking Lotto ticket is to be purchased, without knowing exactly how this data will be processed, it really raises questions as to whether it is a proportionate measure. I also said before that I personally do not consider this measure to be right, but my proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U321	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U322	Thank you. I also ask in the light of the Gambling Tax Act. Is it not extremely hypocritical that coalition partners Reform Party and Social Democrats bring here a draft restricting SMS loans, give the impression that they support it, and ultimately, if the IRL supports it, they will not do so themselves and this law will not be passed here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U323	I don't know what bill we're talking about right now. But if you mean the draft that failed here a few hours ago in the vote, then indeed, many of the people who were in this Chamber, including the IRL Group, did not just press the button. We can continue to have this argument, which is sincere and which is not. Our people weren't at least in the hall, they were probably out there campaigning.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U324	I know what draft we're discussing, it's draft 747. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U325	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'll check it out. Are you convinced that the government coalition, which is no longer able to accept 51 votes calling for a majority in the Chamber, has done enough good work in the Commission because there are simply no MPs? Can you tell me this bill is a good bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U326	I am the Commission's rapporteur and cannot evaluate the draft sent from the Commission to second reading. But I have mentioned that the regulation of the self-exclusion list is, in my opinion, not proportionate. I also tabled an amendment on this point, to which my fellow Members in the Commission did not give sufficient support. That's the way life is. But let's hope people play the lotteries responsibly in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U327	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U328	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The IRL Group considers that, although there is also a lot of positive results in this draft, the desire to promote gambling may give the possibility to finally increase the number of gambling addicts to promote the lottery. The explanatory memorandum also makes it clear that there are already nearly 13,000 lottery players. If more people start playing, more addicts are likely to occur. In return, we'll get the money. They tried to find other reasons, but at the end of every answer, we found out that we were getting more money to treat addicts, and if there's anything left, maybe there's something for culture. This approach is certainly not appropriate. That is why the IRL Group proposes that the second reading be stopped and the provisions on advertising removed from it so that we can really adopt a proper and good law here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U329	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Five amendments to the draft have been tabled. They have all been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and have been fully taken into account: the first, second, third, fourth and fifth amendments. The amendments have been examined. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading. However, the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance has proposed that the second reading be interrupted. That is what we need to vote on. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association to interrupt the second reading of draft 747. Please take a stand and vote. There were 12 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the interruption, against 34. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of Bill 747 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U330	Now our agenda is the second reading of the draft law amending traffic law and state fees law initiated by the Government of the Republic. Waitress of the Economic Commission, Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U331	Hello, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Traffic Act and the State Fees Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 17 November 2014. This draft creates the possibility for electric vehicles to use public transport lanes. The right to decide on the admission of bicycles and mopeds to public transport lanes shall be granted to the road owner in order to enable him to analyse whether road safety is maintained in view of the speed of the movement of bicycles and mopeds. The draft will also allow public transport lanes to be used on a special service vehicle in order to allow a special service vehicle returning from service to the rescue facility more quickly. The draft provides for the possibility to introduce automatic traffic monitoring systems installed on urban roads (e.g. Kristiine Centre intersection cameras) and facilitates the obligation to request and carry physical documents, which will allow the introduction of new e-services. In order to improve the availability of public services, the state fee law will be supplemented so that the holder of the state fee can perform the necessary act before the receipt of the state fee if the amount of the state fee is booked. The first reading of the bill was completed in Riigikogu's plenary session on 17 December 2014. One amendment was tabled by a member of the Riigikogu, Igor Gräzin, and no proposals were received from other members or political groups. In addition, the Economic Commission received proposals from the Labour Inspectorate and the City Government of Tallinn. Now I will briefly talk about the amendments. The longest discussion was caused by an amendment which is not written here, but which we discussed in the Commission and which was not supported. The health information system requested information on the severity of road accidents in a personalised form. The Commission's debate found that, in general, this idea makes sense and it would certainly be worth collecting such information for statistics. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs said, however, that a compromise had been reached in the government, so that such information would not be given out of the system in a personalized form. This is one of the foundations of the credibility of this system. After the Commission's discussion, we advised the Road Administration, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and everyone else to continue working to ensure that the information is in the right form. I shall speak in the order of the amendments that are here. Amendment 1 provides for a change of name. Amendment 2 was proposed by Mr Gräzini on the use and acceptance of foreign driving licences in Estonia. There are some problems with this, as authorisations issued in the United States do not always meet the standards that should be met by driving licences valid in Europe, including Estonia. In order to obtain a valid driving licence here, you must apply for an international driving licence or a licence here. This proposal was therefore not supported by the Commission. Amendments 3 and 4 concern the principles of how Member States issue driving licences and for how long they are valid. Amendment 5 concerns tachographs, their controls and requirements as to how they must be installed, etc. Also, which requirements must be met by the workshop that installs them. Proposal No 6 specifies the list of collections and disposals of municipal waste. This point, according to my memory, concerns working and resting hours in the Traffic Act. Amendment 7 concerns recording equipment where there is a connection to a regular passenger service with a distance of up to 50 kilometres between the initial point and the end point. Urban buses are exempted from the use of tachographs, taking into account the specificities of the urban line. Amendment 8 is about the entry into force of the law. The procedural proposals are as follows: the commission adopted the decision to send the draft to the Riigikogu for second reading by 28 January with the proposal to end the second reading, and when it is completed, we will be proposing a third reading on 11 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U332	Questions. Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U333	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Did the Commission also analyse that if we adopt these good amendments to the law on traffic, will the traffic situation improve and how much will the harmful consequences be reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U334	Thank you. It is also part of the idea of this draft that the changes made to some points should improve security and the possibility of checking this security, including a longer transitional period for tachographs. In view of the wider implications of this law, allowing electric vehicles to access public transport lanes is certainly also a visible change. There are 1143 electric vehicles in Estonia. By comparison, there are 1742 buses and 3100 taxi cars in Harju County. The municipalities are probably analysing the admission of bicycles and mopeds to public transport lanes. I know a lot of riders are already out there, so I've been driving myself. Every municipality must see for itself the safety of traffic within its territory. The introduction of urban traffic cameras will certainly improve overall security and traffic order. I named the Kristiine Crossroads camera, which I think the Traffic Committee discussed as early as 2012. It was decided to install, it has stood there for beauty after several years and has not done its job. I hope, of course, that this law will also make people's lives better.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U335	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U336	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good waitress! I've been pretty close to dealing with traffic laws in my earlier life. I remember from then on that all these traffic specialists were still very conservative and it was sometimes quite difficult to discuss with them. For example, if electric cars can continue to drive on public transport lanes, it should be borne in mind that the batteries of new electric cars will last beautifully, but in a few years' time these batteries will be older. Let's try to imagine that. Did it come up with what happens if, by creating such an advantage for electric cars, there is some kind of traffic chaos, because the batteries are just running out in the wrong place because they are old?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U337	Thank you, good questioner! No, we did not have such a debate. The same can happen to any parent or newer car that is often not fueled. Even in cold weather, an older diesel car may stay on the track or not start at all. All kinds of things happen in life, as you know. Once again, the number of electric vehicles is very low. For example, 611 electric vehicles have been registered in Harju County and 426 electric vehicles have been registered in Tallinn. It is close to 0,2% of registered vehicles. The probability that these vehicles will stay on that track, I think, is in equal proportion to the frequency of these vehicles. Best of all, it seems from visual observation that, with the exception of Tesla, all electric vehicles seem so pleasantly light that we would push them away.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U338	No more questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. There are eight amendments to the draft, of which the Committee on Economic Affairs has, of course, been fully taken into account. The first amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs. The second amendment is from Igor Gräzin, which has been rejected, but is not subject to the vote under § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure Act. The third amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, as well as the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth amendments. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U339	Our next item is the second reading of the Act on Support for Entrepreneurship and Guarantee of Loans, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the Draft Act amending the Estonian Development Fund Act, 787. Kallemets, waitress of the Economic Commission, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U340	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Let me remind you a little bit of what the purpose of the draft 787 was before the amendments were tabled. In short, the aim was to give KredEx the mandate to set up additional fund funds for the development of the Estonian venture capital market, where the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications intends to allocate 60 million euros until 2020 in order to revitalise the Estonian venture capital market. These funds would attract additional funds from pension funds, of which only 6% have so far been invested in Estonian assets. In total, our pension funds amount to EUR 1.6 billion. Thus, it would be very positive if Estonian pension funds could invest in Estonian assets, but the choice is unfortunately limited. The Commission received four amendments, the first two of which are more worded and two relatively meaningful. The first of these substantive amendments is Amendment 3, which provides an opportunity to increase the total amount of guarantee agreements for business loans from the current EUR 128 million to EUR 160 million. This is what KredEx wants, given that so far guarantee agreements for corporate loans have been concluded quite successfully, which means that guarantees have been given for loans that have improved the investment capacity of Estonian companies. You could call it positive. KredEx provides that there may be a need for a higher maximum volume of guarantee contracts between 2015 and 2018. However, this increase in the guarantee obligation does not imply any additional capital injection for KredEx. The Ministry of Finance also agreed on this proposal, which had a discussion with them in advance. Amendment 4 is also very meaningful. Recalling my previous talk about the fund funds to be set up, which will invest both the capital invested by the state and the equity capital of the additional capital raised in the pension funds, so that they can, in turn, invest in their own production, we must mention greater value creation, increased production volume, all the good that we have talked about in economic policy debates with the various political parties. In order to do this, the funds must have companies that present their business ideas as a proposal to raise capital in the first place. In order to have these business ideas, the Development Fund has proposed, after examining the matter with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, that the current mandate and investment strategy of the Fund should be substantially amended. There are two ways. Firstly, the Development Fund itself has now made direct direct capital investments similar to those that would be made by these fund funds financed by KredEx. Thus, the State would create an additional mechanism that is very similar to the one that operates in the form of SmartCap in the Development Fund. As SmartCapis is the direct fund manager and manager of the State itself, SmartCap is transferred to private sector administration. I mean, the Development Fund itself will not be directly involved in making investment decisions. Secondly, in order to have enough investment objects, the Development Fund invests money in three business accelerators. They will work together with professional advisors and develop more raw business ideas, as we can see in Braidjah. This is so that one business idea, or simply the idea, can become a real start-up, where these fund funds that KredEx hopes will be able to put money into, so that the real perspective is to return the money to the investor. As far as the objective of the Development Fund is concerned, until 2020, the goal is to work through over a thousand business ideas, to make real acceleration investments in 100 companies and to achieve five global success stories similar to the success stories of GrabCAD, TransferWise or Modesat. These business accelerators and fund funds are not only for residents of Estonia; they are also open to residents of other countries. The idea is that Estonia, as an attractive start-up company in IT and other fields, has a functioning venture capital market, which is a very important prerequisite for active start-up business to take place in the Republic of Estonia. I hope that, by way of introduction, these explanations were sufficient. The meeting of the Economic Commission took place on 22 January. We had representatives from both the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as well as the board and board of directors of the Development Fund. We have proposed that this draft be sent to second reading today, that the second reading be stopped, and that when the second reading is completed, we will be proposing that it be put to the final vote on 15 February. We made these proposals in a consensual manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U341	Questions. Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U342	Thank you. Good waitress! It is very welcome that this country's contribution to risk investment will be increased. You mentioned start-ups and successful online start-ups in Estonia. You were talking about the need to activate this activity. Was there any discussion in the Commission which areas in Estonia urgently require more venture capital? However, if the state is still part of the money, what are the so-called soft landings to prevent empty winds from being driven by this money?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U343	Yes, there was no discussion in the Commission on these specific areas. However, I assure you that as the representative of the commission responsible for the draft, I held several meetings with the members of the Estonian Development Fund and the Estonian Private and Venture Capital Association in order to better understand the content of the matter. Indeed, IT has a certain objective competitive advantage: there is a relatively small need for capital, only a computer is needed, and that is the whole material basis necessary to realise a business idea as software. But we also have other strong areas. I think that robotics and mechanical engineering are quite considerable, also conventional and wooden construction, there are different types of solutions in the area of design, and we also have a very good example here for batteries and super capacitors. It is difficult to predict what are the specific businesses or areas from which these future players come. Undoubtedly, our universities and students, both Estonian and foreign students, are the fundamental strongest base, trying to form their ideas into business ideas. That is why the business accelerator function is very important so that, at a fairly early stage, it is possible to analyse and test whether a particular technical solution or idea bears, whether it can generate cash flow and whether the team is strong enough or whether it requires the competence and skills of this team, as well as the development of technical skills, so that a particular business idea can reach such a phase within a certain period of time, so that greater equity can be allocated to it. Business accelerators and the amount of funds that are put into business accelerators, EUR 3 million from the state and private capital are also involved, and this is not the stage in which the state has very much to worry about high economic costs. It would be much more negative if there were no stage of business accelerators and the same fund funds would take risks. Moreover, the economic risk of the State is mitigated by the fact that shareholders in business accelerators must also be direct fund managers themselves. So if business accelerators and fund funds make economically wrong decisions, then the fund managers will also be harmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U344	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Four amendments to the draft have been tabled, all from the lead committee and all of them have been taken into account. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U345	The next item is the first reading of draft 840 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon' presented by the Government of the Republic. The initiating waitress is Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U346	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good co-rapporteur Riisalu and ladies! I am very pleased to be here before you today with the draft decision of the Riigikogu, which is entitled 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on the UN peacekeeping mission in Lebanon'. When submitting this draft to the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Finland based on the proposal from the Republic of Finland to join a unit the size of an infantry group in the composition of the Finnish and Irish Joint Battalion on the UNIFIL mission in Lebanon. This is an international mission led by the United Nations, as has been said. According to the initial plan, we intend to contribute with two six-month rotations, i.e. until May 2016. However, we are normally applying for the mandate until the end of this year, so that, if necessary, together with all other draft proposals for the extension of external operations, the Riigikogu will come back before the Riigikogu with the wish to extend the UNIFIL mission. As we know, participation in international military operations has been a firming activity of Estonia's credibility over the years. It has shown us in the international community as a country contributing to security, not just as a consumer of security. Certainly, the Middle East is now one of those parts of the world and regions where security needs the attention and commitment of the entire international community and whose developments have a direct impact on global security. UNIFIL is a broad-based, long-term UN peacekeeping mission with a strong mandate. By participating in this mission, Estonia will demonstrate its willingness to contribute to the preservation of peace and, if necessary, to resolving crises in this part of the world. Our military contribution to foreign operations has been mostly related to the ISAF operation in Afghanistan over the last decade. Given the small size of our country, a very significant contribution to the ISAF operation has not allowed us to contribute to UN operations with infantry units in previous years. Since the ISAF operation has been completed, it will allow us to contribute more to the United Nations military operations. I believe that participating in UN military operations is a good support for Estonia's ambition to apply for UN Security Council non-permanent membership in 2020. Estonia intends to contribute to the peacekeeping mission in Lebanon in the composition of the Finnish and Irish Joint Battalion, as stated, with a team size unit. Our task is expected to be participating in the surveillance patrol, manning inspection posts, peacekeeping operations and cooperation with the Lebanese armed forces. The roles, rights and obligations of the parties will be further defined in the bilateral cooperation agreement between Estonia and Finland. Estonia will be part of the Finnish subunit in this battalion. The offer to participate in the United Nations mission from spring 2015 to spring 2016 was made by Finland at the end of last year. We believe that taking part in UNIFIL's mission will further enhance Estonia's very good and close defence cooperation in itself with Finland, who has been our friend and ally throughout history, and with whom we will certainly want to cooperate as practically as possible in the future. Experience to date from all past missions, whether NATO, the European Union or UN-led missions, shows that this kind of military cooperation in missions is the best way to strengthen and maintain the cooperation of defence forces and to consolidate the military brotherhood of defence forces. I hope that this draft decision will receive the support of the Riigikogu and the Estonian Defence Forces will be able to participate in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon with a team size unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U347	Thank you. Any questions for the Secretary of Defense? No, it's not. The rapporteur for the Commission is Aivar Riisalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U348	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! This is an exceptionally good draft because the Estonian state has always been prepared to contribute to a lasting peace process in the world. Some time ago, we ended considerable missions, but the Estonian Defence Forces have reasonable missions to attend, as this will keep the Defence Forces active and will certainly be a good opportunity for our fighters to gain experience. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting on 22 January before submitting it to the first reading. Representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces involved in the draft were present at the meeting. General Major Riho Terras and senior officers introduced us to the ongoing missions and gave an overview of the opportunity to contribute to UNIFIL's mission at the earlier session of the National Defence Committee on 13 January. According to the draft, a unit the size of the Estonian Defence Forces group will participate in the composition of the Finnish and Irish Joint Battalion, as the Minister has already said. The task of the unit is to prevent hostilities, observe, patrol, crew control posts and ensure the security of the United Nations UNTSO observation mission in the same area. This is a United Nations mission on blue helmets, to which Estonia, as a Member State of the United Nations, contributes to peace in the crisis area. UNIFIL's mission is not new to us. The Estonian Defence Forces participated there in 1996 and 1997 with a company-sized unit. At its meeting on 22 January, the National Defence Committee decided to consensually propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft under discussion be included on the agenda for the first reading of the session of the Riigikogu on 28 January and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. The rapporteur for the Commission was appointed here. In addition, pursuant to § 99 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Chairman of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 10 a.m. on 9 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U349	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading of draft 840. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 10 a.m. on 9 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U350	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act 832 on the ratification of the Amending Protocol to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Swiss Association Council on Income and Capital Taxation, signed on 11 June 2002, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia and the Swiss Association Council. Government waitress, finance minister Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U351	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The aim of double taxation agreements is to encourage transnational investment, prevent discriminatory taxation and prevent tax evasion. A double taxation agreement was concluded between Estonia and Switzerland in 2002. The main incentive for the conclusion of the new protocol was to bring the provisions on the exchange of information into line with the International Exchange of Information standard. An obligation to exchange information was included in the agreement even if the tax information requested by the State for its own use is not necessary. Nor may the State refuse to provide information because the holder of the information is, for example, a credit institution or a representative of a person. The Protocol defines the concept of a pension scheme. Under the new Protocol, pension schemes established in Estonia or Switzerland are considered to be resident and dividends paid from the company to the pension scheme are exempt from withholding tax. The right to tax interest and royalty payable to a resident of another country shall be limited to the State of residence of the recipient when the Protocol enters into force. In the case of dividends, the highest rate of withholding tax in the source country is 10% of the gross dividend. A source country may not tax a dividend paid to a resident of another country if its recipient's participation in the company has been at least 10% for at least one year. A provision of the arbitration procedure was added to the Protocol. Subject to the entry into force of the new Protocol, the person shall have the opportunity to appeal to the arbitration panel to settle the tax dispute if the competent authorities have not been able to resolve the matter within three years. Both Estonia and Switzerland, according to the new protocol, use either the exemption or netting method, depending on the type of income, to avoid double taxation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U352	Questions will not be asked by the rapporteur, as no one will make a request for questioning. Thank you, Madam Secretary. The Commission's waitress is Peter Laurson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U353	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Monetary Commission discussed the draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Double Taxation Convention between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Swiss Association Council on income and capital taxes signed on 11 June 2002. In the same way that Mrs Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, gave an overview here today, at the meeting of the Commission. The Commission did not have any questions about the draft. However, the representative of the Government of the Republic wanted to clarify that the draft double taxation treaties are moving at the planned pace. The Estonian state negotiates with an average of four countries each year and the speed of the negotiations depends primarily on the second side of the agreement. The Finance Committee decided to make two proposals to the Riigikogu's plenary session: to stop the first reading of the draft and set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 6 February. The decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U354	Questions. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U355	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! In recent times, there have been signals from Switzerland that they are no longer holding bank secrecy in the old traditional way, or giving out information under pressure from certain countries. So there is no longer any certainty that Switzerland will be a secure financial paradise. In the Commission's debate on this agreement, did it also come up with the issue that Switzerland no longer has such a role as a banking paradise? People's ambassadors, who are primarily involved in the real economy, should be well aware of the region's activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U356	This issue was not raised in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U357	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. First reading of bill 832 is complete. I will set the deadline of 6 February at 4 p.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U358	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Name Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Here too, Minister of Finance Maris Lauri is a waitress. Procedural question, Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U359	The agenda on my desk says Hanno Pevkur should make a report.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U360	The Government of the Republic has proposed to be represented at first reading by Maris Lauri. I would point out that this is a draft initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U361	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of the draft law amending the Names Act is to provide that the granting of a new surname or the restoration of a former name and the granting of a new first name may be decided by both the Minister responsible for the field, who is currently the Minister for the Interior, and the person authorised by him by an administrative act. Under the current law, the Minister may only delegate the decision on changes of name in certain cases, for example, if the person wishes to use the surname of parents, grandparents or grandparents, only one name for a family name consisting of several names, or if he wishes to change the number or order of names in the first name. These are just a few examples. The Minister can therefore only delegate decisions which are not discretionary decisions. In practice, the persons authorised to make such changes to the name are officials of the county government and Tallinn Civil Status Department. The draft we are discussing today gives the Minister the opportunity to authorise the decision-making of the change of name also in cases which until now have only been the decision of the Minister. For example, if a person reasonably wishes to get rid of an unusually shaped last name or first name which is not suitable for his or her surname or first name because of his or her complex spelling or pronunciation which does not correspond to the use of the Estonian language or because of his or her common language, to enter his or her Estonian surname, to get rid of his or her last name if his or her personal name coincides with the name of another person, or to change the first name or surname for any other valid reason. It would therefore also be possible to sub-delegate decisions requiring a decision on a discretionary basis in the future. More complex changes in names, for example, when considering whether there is a valid reason to change the name, the personal name committee at the Ministry of the Interior will discuss. The casework of the Personal Name Panel also helps shape a common practice of naming. These tasks will continue to be maintained by the Commission after the entry into force of the legislative amendments currently under discussion. The draft has been drawn up with a view to the Minister's mandate to give names for himself, in particular, officials of the Ministry of the Interior, but this does not mean that in the future the Minister could not confer powers on other competent officials, such as county government officials. The legislative changes will ensure a faster and more effective procedure for naming in the future. Last year, the Minister and his authorised officials made a total of 1759 changes in names, including 384 decisions. The amendments would therefore simplify the procedure without compromising the quality or arguments of the decisions. After all, the same specialists in the Ministry and in the Personal Names Committee will continue to prepare decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U362	Question to the initiator of the draft. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U363	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Actually, it's a bad thing to ask you this because you don't deal with the Department of the Interior every day. But at the same time, you're an economic man. I'm in business too. In my opinion, it is very strange that certain economic problems can relatively easily be caused by a change of name. For example, in a specific case that has even touched me, one person has already done so three times in a short time. If this practice is made easier now, can it be said that it can lead to a change of name, not least without a clear reason, but almost with criminal intent? I wouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U364	Thanks for asking. I happened to study the subject a little bit. I understood that this issue is being dealt with intensively at the Ministry. I hope that the new Riigikogu will be presented with a proposal on how to avoid such malicious name changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U365	No further questions. Thank you. The Commission's rapporteur is Kalle Jents. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U366	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 19 January and the Commission decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 28 January, i.e. today, to appoint Mr Jents as rapporteur and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 5 February. When the first reading of the draft is completed, we will be proposing that the draft be sent to second reading by 11 February, and we will propose that the second reading be stopped. As I said, the Commission supported these decisions. We also had a discussion on this subject when a criminal element, such as a pedophile, wants to change its name. But it probably doesn't matter whether economic transgressions or anything else have been committed. However, the Commission decided to support the draft, as there are certainly more competent and responsible officials in the Republic of Estonia who are able to deal with this matter, not just the Minister. In this sense, we support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U367	Questions. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U368	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good waitress! I understand from what you said that the Commission is aware of this malicious name change problem. But, between readings, does the Commission intend to make any changes to the draft, or are we trying to adopt the law in this form and you do not consider the amendments necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U369	Thank you. This will be a debate in the Commission, yes. We did not make a specific decision on how we will proceed with this draft. But, good questioner, I'm sure I'll take your question into consideration. In committee, we will discuss whether it is necessary or possible to include something in the draft law. I would point out that the question here is that the Minister is given the right to delegate the decision to an administrative act. How this procedure and procedure are carried out does not regulate this draft, nor does it regulate what needs to be controlled and how to behave.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U370	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U371	President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! In the Commission, we discussed this a little bit, but I cannot even recall what this precise regulation looks like and whether the draft concerns this issue at all. Mr Riisalu asked about economic crimes and the fraudulent change of names. What about the pedophiles? After all, there have been some topical cases when a person has gone down and changed his name, then he has come out as a clean leaf, and soon he has gone back into prison and taken a new name. Is it regulated by this bill, or is it already regulated differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U372	Thank you, good questioner! I don't know where you were a moment ago, like you were in the hall. That's when I touched on the subject. We did indeed discuss the issue of paedophilia in the Commission. There are certainly other categories that could cause a vicious change of names. Once again, the draft does not directly regulate this issue. But these are issues that should certainly be discussed: what is the rulebook on which it is based and on which it is controlled? This is simply a question of what level can a change of name be decided on, whether it is only at ministerial level or whether it is still appropriate for certain officials to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-28_U373	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission has proposed to close the first reading of draft 831. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 4 p.m. on 5 February. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 19.03 a.m.
