ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! The Question Time takes place on the basis of § 146 of the Home and Working Procedures Act. We're gonna do a presence check. 39 members of the Riigikogu are present. Minister of Defence Sven Mikser participates in the duties of Prime Minister, Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice, and Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Health and Labour. Yesterday he asked six members of the Riigikogu to ask the question. So I will give you two additional questions for each subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U2	The first questioner is Kadri Simson and the question is the Prime Minister's role for Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U3	Thank you. Dear Sven Mikser! You are in the office of Prime Minister today, and that is why I am not asking you about your specific subject. My phone's been hot red last night, and it's been hot red today. There is a call from Pärnumaa, where the roads are in very bad condition. For example, cars in Tõstamaa parish are driving on a mirrored road to a ditch, but the parish elder says that it is a state road and there is no money allocated to the parish to maintain this road. We look at the headlines of Delfi today: "On the Narva highway Jõelähtme 13 vehicles were involved in an accident, four people were taken to the hospital," "Small slippery slipped into a ditch in Järvamaa by four bus, rescuers and roadkeepers." Clearly, there is not enough equipment for road maintenance. Several transport companies believe that tolls should also be imposed in Estonia, as this gives hope that the situation on our roads will improve. The toll has been introduced by all our neighbouring countries, with the exception of Finland. Why has Estonia decided not to impose tolls on heavy goods vehicles?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U4	Thank you. I share your concern about the slippery roads and the fact that, due to unusual weather, more accidents and accidents have occurred on Estonian roads than usual. I have spoken to the people of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications on this subject today. It is certainly important that the competent authorities do their work well and keep the roads in order. The special care of drivers is also present in exceptional road conditions. If conditions change very quickly, which has an impact on safety at work, then it is essential to be more attentive, to drive slower, to keep up the gap and to monitor road conditions. But in answer to your question, according to the Tea Act, there really is no public road charge in Estonia. In Estonia, the concept that road maintenance is financed from fuel excise funds has so far been largely based on the idea that road construction has also been financed from the European Union's Cohesion Fund. It is clear that after 2018, this latter source of funding for the construction of roads will no longer be available in its former capacity and will not be available in the future at all. It is therefore necessary to consider whether the current financing arrangements for road construction and storage should be reviewed. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Finance and the State Chancellery are currently jointly discussing how to approach taxation on transport and road use. In carrying out their analysis, they naturally follow the best practices in other countries, because, as you said, most European Union countries use tolls. The analysis is also based on the views and recommendations of the OECD and the European Commission, which have been given to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U5	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U6	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. This summer, a certain percentage of the money received from excise fuel for road maintenance was written out of the law with the votes of the Socialists and Reform Party. The introduction of a toll is a common practice in the European Union, which would help to compensate for the lost money. Several heavy goods companies have been concerned that our companies are in a more unequal situation than companies in other countries, as the heavy goods tax in Estonia applies only to vehicles registered in the Estonian Traffic Register. How unfair do you consider the situation in which Estonian heavy goods vehicles help to maintain the infrastructure of other countries, but the vehicles of other countries that pass through Estonia do not need to contribute money to the maintenance of Estonian infrastructure?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U7	Thank you. It certainly cannot be considered righteous to the end. It should be borne in mind that a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council since 1999 states, among other things, that all Member States have an obligation to implement the so-called owner tax on heavy goods vehicles. On vehicles registered in that country, a Member State is obliged to levy such a charge, the amount of which depends on the maximum permissible mass and the number of axles. Estonia must have a maximum mass of 12 tonnes or more. This year, the state budget receives EUR 3.7 million in revenue for such vehicles. This specific point has remained mandatory for countries, despite amendments to the directives. Another issue is the implementation of "time- or mileage-based road user charges," which Member States can do on a voluntary basis. Indeed, Estonia has not taken this opportunity, as you referred to. Besides Estonia, as of last year, it had not been implemented by the countries of the European Union, such as Great Britain and Finland, but most Member States have indeed. The final result of the analysis of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the State Chancellery is certainly not what I am able to say as Minister of Defence at the moment. But we could move in that direction to take greater account of noise and pollution, for example, when charging for road use beyond infrastructure. It is certainly important that all users of Estonian infrastructure are taxed in the same way so that there is no discrimination when taxing road users in Estonia or other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U8	Kadri Simson, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U9	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The current government of Estonia has been looking for all kinds of options for extra taxation. Last time, homes heated with light fuel oil were subject to additional taxes. However, the opportunities offered by the theme have been missed. Recently, a road toll for heavy goods vehicles was introduced by Latvia, where tolls were transferred from 1 July last year. For trucks and combinations of vehicles with a maximum mass of up to 12000 kilograms, one day driving on Latvian roads now costs eight euros and for trucks and combinations of vehicles with a maximum mass exceeding 12000 kilograms, depending on the euro issue and the number of axles nine or eleven euros. As far as you know, has anyone calculated and analysed how much tax money is not collected in Estonia because we do not have a toll imposed on heavy goods vehicles from other countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U10	Thank you. The current government is certainly not unique in the long line of Estonian governments because it has not introduced a toll. As we know, no previous government in Estonia has introduced a toll either. Given that the possibility of using Cohesion Fund money will soon come to an end, this revenue line needs to be revised and the principles for setting road user charges need to be developed. This work has begun. I expect the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, in cooperation with the State Chancellery and the Ministry of Finance, to arrive at a result that takes quite a number of factors into account. One of them is certainly that the revenue side of the state budget needs resources to build and maintain roads. Secondly, the road user charges should take into account the possibility of "directing traffic', managing traffic flows, such as shifting heavy goods vehicles to certain routes at a certain time. In this sense, a flexible solution is needed. As I said, it is absolutely necessary that, apart from the impact on infrastructure and the issue of clean revenue, other accompanying effects be looked at. Of course, heavy duty vehicles are a heavy burden on the infrastructure in which they move, but they also impose a heavy burden on the environment due to the emissions they generate, as well as noise pollution when heavy duty vehicles travel near the human settlement. So it's a complex question that's working right now. But, coming to the first part of your question, I say that it has certainly not been the government's intention to impose any tax on its own account. We are trying to shift people and businesses towards environmental sustainability in taxation so that they do not deal with things that are not desirable from the point of view of the state and society, for example, so that people do not consume harmful goods. The need to fill the revenue side of the state budget so that the budget can be balanced cannot be overlooked either.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U11	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U12	Thank you, manager. Minister of Defence in his duties as Prime Minister. Listening to what you were saying, I remembered the time when four seasons were blamed, but it was never the government's fault. I would remind you of your agreement in the coalition that road savings will be reduced by EUR 12 million. During this morning's rush hour, there were 13 cars in a ditch near Tallinn, four buses and a rescue car in Järvamaa, but you consider it normal. I ask directly: has the government of the Socialists and Reform Party completely lost its capacity to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U13	Thank you. The answer to your question is certainly not. As has been said, it is important that the institutions that care for you do their work well and at the right time. It is certainly important that road users also observe changes in traffic conditions very closely and be even more attentive and cautious in unusually difficult circumstances. Despite the slickness of the outside, the government is doing its job, and it is doing so with full responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U14	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U15	Thank you. Dear Sven Mikser! Indeed, in order to get money from somewhere, the government has increased gas excise duties for three years in a row, the excise duty on light fuel oil that has already been mentioned has raised 380%, has lost or delayed parental pension, and there is quite a lot of such things. Why don't we take the money from where it's, say, offered? Think about it, heavy goods vehicles on the roads that break you, we have to fix them for taxpayers' money all the time. It would make a lot of sense if these trucks were to be taxed. When you formed the coalition, did you put the subject on the table and what was said to you about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U16	Thank you. The current analysis of the future approach to road user charges, which components to take into account and which tax types to apply shows that the government considers this issue to be important. It is certainly possible to look at the minutes of the sittings and find out whether previous governments have also begun such an analysis. No tax can be imposed overnight, it is certainly reasonable to analyse all effects and aspects. This job is being done right now. If you have the impression that I am in any way opposed to the possibility of taxing tea use in a different way than has been done in Estonia so far, then certainly not. When this analysis is completed and the proposals are put on the table, they must be taken very seriously, given that the use of EU funds in this area will one day come to an end and not in a very distant future. But it is important to analyse all taxes as a whole and also look at the revenue of the state budget as a whole. The government currently in office considered alternatives very carefully and carried out the reforms that it considered necessary. There is certainly much left to analyse, do and decide the right thing for several other governments in the Estonian tax system. So dealing with budget revenue is important. It is certainly important to see how changes affect consumption and to analyse socio-economic impacts and impacts on the environment. All this government, like any responsible government, does.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U17	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U18	The next question is for Justice Minister Andres Anvelt and the questioner is Liisa-Ly Pakosta. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U19	Thank you. A tragic fire in the home of a decent family with three young children, where electricity was turned off, touched many people. The Head of the Rescue Board called on all responsible people to find solutions. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association have issued a draft procedure which provides that the local government must find a solution within 90 days before power is switched off. What do you assess the arrangements for communicating between energy sellers and local government in the Estonian legal area, and do you consider such a change necessary? Or do you have any other plan that the legal order would help prevent people simply from dying in a fire because they have not been able to pay their electricity bills?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U20	Thank you for this very important question. This event in Laekvere really was not only tragic, but it also put pressure on several shortcomings in the flow of information between the electricity company and the state or local government. If we look at this more broadly, it would certainly be interesting for the Rescue Board, for example, to turn off electricity quickly and even to the Police and Border Guard Board. But you asked a question and referred to the draft law that your group has put into the procedure. When this bill reaches the Ministry's desk, we will analyse it very thoroughly. My first look says the direction is quite correct. This information must not only remain known to the customer and the energy company, because the reasons for such situations are in fact very numerous. This may be because of human negligence, but also because a person simply lacks money and there is no information that a local authority that has been allocated certain social assistance resources from the state budget could help him. In addition to information, the rights and competences of local authorities should be defined and, if the municipality has an additional function, it should also be provided with resources in addition to those which it receives for the normal provision of social assistance.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U21	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U22	Thank you. I have a very specific question. Energy poverty is a concept used in the European Union, which I have not yet noticed in any document in Estonia. Do you recognize this term? When talking about energy poverty, families who are unable to provide life's essential, minimal amount of energy and water as a basis for survival. How do you feel about the introduction of this term in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U23	Thank you. At first glance, a lot of things seem to be new in the Estonian legal space. The word 'energy poverty', however, does not seem new to me as Minister of Justice and Social Democrat, because we have also used it in our programming documents, but that is why. I think that energy poverty is quite closely linked, as I say, to guaranteeing human rights. Today we are already talking about the fact that access to the Internet is becoming a human right. Energy and the resulting elementary benefits - the possibility of running food, the lighting and heating of dwellings - must be guaranteed to man, but we certainly cannot place them on the company's shoulders to guarantee them. This is where the state and local government play an important role, which, if a person has problems getting out of energy poverty, must shoulder it. I am sure that the same word, 'energy poverty', will at least reach out to the coalition documents of the next government. Indeed, the basis of a decent life is that there is no energy poverty.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U24	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, second additional question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U25	Thank you very much for your previous answer. Here we are in complete agreement. But you said that when the IRL bill hits your desk, you're going to start an in-depth analysis. It is important to analyse thoroughly, but when I look at the calendar, I see that all this should be done at a dignified rate so that we can adopt this law. Please state your clear position as to whether the Ministry of Justice is prepared to provide input so that this law can be adopted, and then make the necessary improvements or improvements. Of course, the Justice Department has opportunities to contribute. Would you be willing, in principle, to support the adoption of this law during the working hours of this Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U26	Thank you. I have to say that I and our ministry are prepared, as they say, to contribute to the movement of this bill in legal matters, but I believe that the chief responsible for such a draft should be the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. I can't speak for him right now. What does it take to analyze? First of all, how many people can be affected by energy poverty in Estonia, we bring this term right in. Secondly, how would this mechanism work in the legal sense, which would enable local authorities, for example, to put their bills in order and to help pay them. This is the result of a slightly longer process. For some reason, I do not think that the current Riigikogu is physically capable of proceeding to the end of this bill in the remaining four working weeks, although in theory this is perhaps even possible. The Ministry's opinion doesn't stop it in any way. But it is important to provide the local government with financial resources so that it can also respond financially in this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U27	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U28	Thank you. Mr. Minister! The previous speaker spoke about Eesti Energia. We all know there are huge profits, but the price of electricity has risen disproportionately. We have basically electricity tax in Estonia, our network charges are higher than in Finland, etc. You have proposed that there should be more cooperation with local governments to resolve this issue. Are you now going to make such a law that the municipality will simply be notified one or two months before the power is switched off? Should we not, however, pressure those large monopolies who behave in such a way that the power of a family with children is cut off? After all, the consequences are extremely tragic. Shouldn't we still approach to whip monopoles? This is what the people expect, and the country can do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U29	Thank you. One thing is Eesti Energia and the tasks that have already been assigned to it by its management. It must enable its customers to use energy. I very much doubt whether the tasks of public law should be placed on the shoulders of Eesti Energia. In order to carry out these tasks, the State and also the local government. Eesti Energia is a company; it is a company of the state. It is important to regulate the movement of information into the hands of the local government or the state. In case of energy poverty, this information would provide an opportunity to find a buffer time so that either income support can solve the situation or find other ways to do so. It is important to avoid such tragic events. Information about the switch-off of electricity must not remain a matter of communication between Estonian Energy and the electricity companies and the customer. This is not just a payment disruption, it is a social issue. I do not see that Eesti Energia is very competent in social matters. It is important for him to pass the information on to those authorities and municipalities who already have to deal with a particular case.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U30	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U31	Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you very much. I was thinking that we would still have elections more often, then there would be more belligerent promises from ministers in this Chamber and answers to questions in substance. This is usually the way to answer questions in this Chamber in passing. Now comes my question. You said that the state and the municipality, and everyone at all, should be dealing with people who cannot pay for electricity. I will ask you specifically. Why did this matter come to mind only now when, after the tragic accident, Tallinn Television raised the matter with full sharpness? People sent hundreds of letters. The evening paper began to deal with this matter two days later. When it comes to the media, when all these ugly pictures of dead children and mothers are in front of us, the minister wakes up and announces that he is going to make the law, and he has found that our children are still in a very difficult situation. Where were your eyes before?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U32	Thank you, Mr Lenk, for such an emotional speech. I am very sad to announce that I am not following Tallinn Television because there is no time. But I want to point out two things. Firstly, the removal of children and families from poverty has, at least in my opinion, and certainly also in the coalition agreement, been very important. I would not, of course, like to draw emotional parallels between an event and omissions before the elections. I rather think that when we look at the articles and everything else, we see that the information about the serious financial difficulties that had arisen in one family and the electricity had been cut off was simply not moving. Let us not forget that there is a functioning system of income support. It may not be perfect, but it does exist. People always have the opportunity to turn to the local government to solve these problems. It is precisely to improve the flow of information that, as I said, some steps need to be taken. It is, in itself, that, before the electricity is finally turned off, information about the local government, who can then react, I think, will certainly mitigate those risks, which can also cause tragic events, although mostly the result is simply the shut-down of electricity.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U34	The next question is the Minister of Health and Labour, Urmas Kruus. Asks Siret Eagle. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U35	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, According to a research carried out by the Institute of Economics, the biggest problem in Estonia is the shortage of labour. No wonder, because the economic environment in Estonia is so bad that all better workers leave for other countries. Out of the three Baltic countries, labour shortages are the biggest in Estonia. When will the government led by the Reform Party admit that it has brought the Estonian economy to the edge of the abyss and that people will leave Maarja County because there are low and unlivable wages, all of which are directly the result of the rule of the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U36	Thank you, Reverend Asker! If we look at the general statistics and that we now have 4.3% registered unemployed, we can clearly see that Estonia has behaved very well as an economic environment since the recession, precisely because unemployment has decreased and employment has increased. You indicated that some people work abroad. The reasons why people work abroad have now changed structurally. Compared to the period of recession, it is not always the primary fact that there is economic distress in Estonia, but there is an increasing reason that people want to learn interesting work and re-skill. In fact, fewer people are currently leaving the country than in previous years. Therefore, I cannot accept the argument that the economic climate in Estonia is very bad. If we compare ourselves with other countries of the European Union, we will see that both the tax environment and the economic environment are competitive in Estonia and employment is therefore increasing. But there is certainly a need to address structural labour shortages.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U37	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U38	Thank you. Yeah, we heard that a lot of people migrate because they're going to study elsewhere. But if you still move around the country, for example, in Jõgeva or Tartu County, you can see that the first reason why most people who have left abroad have left Estonia is economic distress. They do not have money to raise children, wages are low, pensions are small, so they go to a higher pension, etc. But we're also being brought in. As Minister of Labour, you should know how many people have come to Estonia in recent years. We know that during Andrus Ansip, for example, the number of people fell by about 47,000 because people left Estonia. But how many people have been brought to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U39	Thank you. To discuss this topic, there was a health round table in Jõhvi, Ida-Virumaa. It discussed how qualified workers could be brought to Estonia and how they could be better integrated into Estonian society, so that they could do their job here, so that they could make maximum use of their competences for the benefit of society and could also function socially. When a person arrives in Estonia and his family comes here with him, it is absolutely necessary that the whole family be integrated into Estonian society. I owe you today the number of people who have come to Estonia recently. When we are talking about the quota principle, these quotas are not currently being met in purely statistical terms. But it can be said that the desire of people to come to work in Estonia, such as Ukraine, has increased more and more recently. This trend is quite clearly on the rise, and it is our duty to take it into account. The strategy of the Estonian state has so far been that we would like to see more qualified workers in Estonia. When we talk specifically about the responsibility of the Minister for Health and Labour, which is linked to the unemployment fund, the unemployment fund is working across Europe to agree with countries on how it would be possible to bring a qualified workforce to Estonia, which we do not have as much on the ground as we would like. For example, we are working together with Spain to alleviate labour shortages in the IT sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U40	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U41	The policy of the Reform Party is reflected directly in the sentence of Jürgen Ligi, one of the top politicians of the Reform Party, that if you don't like it here, then go away. Such a policy has unfortunately borne fruit. People are leaving, and entrepreneurs are actually in trouble. What is your recommendation to entrepreneurs who offer work in the countryside? Where would they find this skilled workforce on the ground?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U42	Thank you. I think it is a little too much to put the Reform Party in charge of everything that has taken place in Estonia. We have not been afraid of government responsibility over the years, but to blame all this simply on one party is, in my opinion, a little overstretched. If we had not made the economic environment so attractive and the tax system very simple, we would certainly not be as high now as we are in terms of economic performance and competitiveness. When we communicate with employers and look at statistics, we see that unemployment is the highest among the least skilled workers. That is why the Unemployment Insurance Fund, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Social Affairs actually pay more attention to people's qualifications and retraining, thereby minimising the risk of people becoming unemployed after a long period of education. This means that there are very difficult tasks ahead of us. If we look at sectors of the economy, in the near future there will be the greatest demand for labour in transport, information and communications and energy. This means that the structure must become more flexible, and the unemployment fund will take this into account when developing labour market measures. We have individually undertaken two target groups, which are also at risk, in the European Union's view, young and older.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U43	Siret Eagle, second additional question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U44	Thank you. Dear Minister, I would remind you that the Reform Party has been in government for 16 years, so it is definitely the Reform Party's responsibility. It is certainly not news to you either that many young people leave Estonia after they have completed their education and go abroad to work. Doctors have been most spoken of, but in fact this is the case in all areas. According to various studies, about 44000 people are reported to leave Estonia in the next five years. What are your solutions to keep people working in our country and get a decent, decent living wage here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U45	Thank you, Reverend Asker! As Minister of Health and Labour, I actually welcome the statistics that are used in our information system. This means that the balance of migration is negative by about 2600 people, only a few years ago it was negative by more than 3,000 or 4,000 people. This means that we cannot in any way claim that more and more people are going away, that is not true, that is not the trend. I am pleased that you have mentioned health professionals, or doctors. The latest data on doctors are such that their outflow has slowed down and this balance is positive. Of course, as a minister, I welcome the fact that health professionals were able to agree with employers that their pay will rise by 12% this year and by just as much next year. All these measures have enabled people to cope better in Estonia, and this means that both the outflow of doctors and the outflow of labour from the country has slowed down. But people don't always go away because they earn little here. The causes are very individual and also family. Yesterday we heard about the state of families when one parent works abroad or even both parents work outside Estonia. This does not always mean that children are getting worse. Not always have people gone abroad because of a bad economic situation. The current social welfare system, also taking into account child benefits raised by the current government, has helped to improve livelihoods more.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U46	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U47	Thank you. Dear Minister, As you said, we still have a relatively low number of registered unemployed, which is a good indicator compared to other countries. We hear almost every week that Finnish entrepreneurs bring their production to Estonia. The reason is our more favourable economic climate and the tax system, they themselves say it. But we have a big problem with not having enough skilled workers. According to December statistics, 20% of the unemployed registered at the unemployment fund were skilled workers, but 17% of the job offers made by entrepreneurs are for skilled workers. How could re-training still be better organised? What do you say to that as a minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U48	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Indeed, statistics and our current economic situation support the understanding that, on the one hand, there is a need for highly educated professionals in the market, but we also see that part of the workforce is poorly qualified and they need further training. The Unemployment Insurance Fund, together with the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, is working to start contributing more to the education of skilled labour in the vocational education system, as well as to the training and retraining of skilled workers. This means that this OSKA system, which has been set up at national level, needs to be more involved in improving people's skills. We all understand very well that if a person has worked in one place for 20 or 25 years and remains unemployed, it is certainly more difficult to deal with him than a person who is used to being very flexible and ready for retraining. It usually takes less time with the last type of person. The Unemployment Insurance Fund, in cooperation with entrepreneurs, has shown, on the basis of its five-year professional experience, that it is also increasingly able to mediate skilled workers. More importantly, in a year, he can find jobs for more people than three or four years ago. Right now, that percentage has reached 75. That means we're talking about a complex service. Of course, it is also important which speciality people choose. One of the additional measures we have put in place is that the unemployment fund provides workshops for 8th and 11th grade students, so that young people know what opportunities there are in the labour market and what skills it would be reasonable to develop. It is important to do so during the pre-selection process.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U49	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U50	The next question is for the Minister of Defence, Sven Mikser, in charge of the Prime Minister's duties. Asking for Siim Kisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U51	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Prime Minister. In recent days, you have spoken a great deal about the Estonian-language reform of Russian upper secondary school education. The requirement that 60% of the classes in Russian upper secondary school should be in Estonian, you have criticised and discredited and called it significantly unsuccessful. Your statements in the Estonian and Russian media have differed, so I ask you a simple question directly and specifically: do you want to cancel this requirement that 60% of the classes should be held in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U52	Thank you. The subject of your question was government education policy. I'll start by quoting the government agreement. We say this: "We will continue the transition of upper secondary schools in part to Estonian-language education in accordance with the law in force. We analyse the real situation of the transition to Estonian-language education in the existing Russian-language upper secondary schools with the aim of ensuring that they receive high-quality upper secondary school education corresponding to the national curriculum. Upper secondary school graduates must be able to complete higher or vocational education in Estonian-language curricula. " These are the principles that we adhere to unwaveringly. Also on the following point of this agreement: "In order to improve the quality of education provided in non-Estonian schools, we contribute to improving the level of teaching of the Estonian language, to the necessary teacher training and to the preparation of modern teaching materials. We aim to increase the effectiveness of teaching the Estonian language in non-Estonian schools. " You speak of disparage, but we are realistic about the situation. We know that upper secondary school studies last three years, so three years after the start of the reform, there is reason to analyse its effectiveness. The current situation is that 59 schools provide basic education in Russian, while in the previous year 90% of these students achieved the required B1 level, which is even lower than what is required to apply for Estonian citizenship, for example. Another eight schools reached the required level of 75% of students. At the same time, in about one third of primary schools with Russian language of instruction, where 25% of all students in these schools in turn studied, more than half of the students did not achieve the required B1 level. I will be happy to continue answering your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U53	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U54	Thank you. Well, that's nice, but you've been evasive from a particular question. Do you want, plan, want this requirement that 60% of the classes be in Estonian, cancelled or somehow changed? To my comment, no study has shown this, however, that the proficiency of the Estonian language would have deteriorated in any way as a result of the introduction of such a requirement. But answer, please, whether you want to cancel this request or not!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U55	I want the measures that the government is taking to this end to be purposeful. The purpose of this requirement is that students in Russian-language schools acquire a good, preferably even excellent, Estonian language skills and will be able to study on the basis of Estonian-language curricula after graduation. I now come from the previous answer to answer your second question. In a situation where we can see that the required level of proficiency in Estonian is not achieved in comprehensive school, we can easily conclude that in upper secondary school, students have great difficulty in acquiring the subject in Estonian at the level in order to gain a good knowledge of the subject. This is a problem in some schools, certainly not in others. The study of subjects in Estonian at upper secondary school is, of course, a good thing. If this is done on a proper level, it will contribute to an improvement in language skills. However, if teachers are at a poor level or students are unable to accept the teaching completely, it will certainly have an impact on knowledge. In fact, just as primary school graduates find it difficult to achieve the required language level, we see that 60% of Estonian-language learning has improved the Estonian language skills of upper secondary school students quite marginally. I am pursuing the goal and want to use a tool that leads to the goal. My aim is not to increase or reduce this proportion, my desire and aim is to find measures that provide students with better skills in the Estonian language, enable them to participate in the life of Estonian society and receive good education, including higher education, including in Estonian. To this end, I think the focus must be shifted from upper secondary school-level learning in Estonian to a much better teaching of Estonian in primary school. I do not agree with some of the people who have said in recent weeks that the kindergarten could be in Estonian, that it was as if the Estonian language could be forgotten at primary school and returned to it at a certain level in upper secondary school. I think that the requirements for Estonian language skills in both primary and upper secondary schools need to be tightened up. In comprehensive school, this level could be B2 instead of B1 and C1.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U56	Siim Kiisler, second additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U57	Thank you. Dear Minister, You talked a lot about middle school. But I'm still coming back to high school education. By the way, the results of the state exams have not deteriorated at all in the Russian upper secondary schools, on the contrary, they have improved precisely during the period when the majority of the studies in Estonian have passed. So let's not say that this transition has somehow worsened the learning outcomes. Secondly, you cannot say in any way that the knowledge of the Estonian language of upper secondary school students would have deteriorated in any way during this period. I still come back to your claim that this requirement has been remarkably unsuccessful. At the same time, you are shirking the answer to the question whether or not you want to cancel it. I ask you for the third time: do you want this requirement that 60% of the lessons should be given in Estonian, cancelled or changed in any way, or do you not want to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U58	Thank you. I remembered the famous question of Astrid Lindgren's work about whether the morning drinking of cognac had been abandoned. I don't think I should answer that question in yes or no. I want students of upper secondary school to master Estonian at the level of graduating from upper secondary school, allowing them to participate actively in the life of Estonian society and study in Estonian at higher education. Subject studies in Estonian at upper secondary school are certainly good and will contribute to this, provided that this is done at a proper level. Therefore, I offer a whole range of measures that can ensure that comprehensive school graduates have sufficient skills in the Estonian language, are able to start studying in Estonian at upper secondary school level, and that upper secondary school teachers also have sufficient skills in the Estonian language so that they can give their subject in Estonian at upper secondary school level. That is a clear objective. If we are talking about whether the reform has produced significantly good results or has failed significantly, then, yes, I will stick to my argument. In fact, no progress was hoped to be made in Russian-speaking schools. There have been very positive examples, which are certainly worth recognising and pointing out, but there have also been significantly more advanced examples. As a whole, progress in the knowledge of the Estonian language has been much more modest than the target. There are also regrettable examples in schools that there has been a return to knowledge. You have to approach purposefully and make sure the students don't get caught in the gears. We should not consider the percentage of subjects taught in Estonian as some kind of national struggle and look at each additional percentage as a footful of the land won by the Estonians. We still need to approach the issue of education policy as an educational policy issue and find solutions that lead to the goal of teaching the good Estonian language to young people with Russian native language. I think we should not set this goal at the end of upper secondary school, but at the end of primary school. After all, I believe that the majority of teachers confirm that language learning is much more effective and effective than it is at a younger age. So the focus should go clearly from upper secondary school to primary school.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U59	Thank you. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U60	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski, a Social Democrat, has made it clear in this Chamber that he intends to close the Põltsamaa School, the famous school, the successor of the Estonian Alexander School in a few years. I would like to stress that there is quite a sufficient number of students there at the moment. The children have said that they will not go to Paide, where the school is to be joined. In Põltsamaa, children mainly study in the neighborhood. They just put some really big money in that school, got a new modern internship house ready, and now all we need to do is fix up the student home, but that money was taken away, the funding stopped. People there are very sad and fighting for their school. They don't know what to do. They don't know what to do. Why is your minister dying out of these lovely rural areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U61	Thank you. On the future of individual vocational schools and vocational education and training institutions, I admit, I am probably not the most competent one to provide answers. But it is clear that the quality of Estonian vocational education has improved on the one hand from year to year, on the other hand, I fear that in the near future we will be faced with a situation where many of the large amounts of money that have been made so far, namely the creation of infrastructure in the field of vocational education, need to be reviewed in a very critical way afterwards. I hope that those vocational training institutions that operate in places where there are enough students who train students in those specialties that are highly required on the labour market and where good education is provided can continue. At the same time, it is clear that the network of educational institutions providing vocational education is not complete; it will not remain this way until the end of time. But I will certainly convey your concern to the Minister for Education and Science, who I hope will give you a more precise answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U62	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U63	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Mr. Minister! When schools are spoken and debated, the most common reason for this dispute is that they are Estonian-speaking and Russian-speaking schools. But this is not the most important problem, it will resolve itself, because there will be no more Russian-speaking people. But has the idea of reducing upper secondary school education to 11 years been discussed at government level? After all, 18-year-olds, or adults, study in the 12th grade. Some girls already have a belly at the end, some girls even have a baby in their arms. Is it reasonable to force them to try to keep them in the 12th grade? Why don't we make the 12th grade optional? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U64	Thank you. In answer to the first part of your question, I cannot agree with you that if you wait long enough, all the problems will be resolved by themselves. There is a proverb that suggests sitting calmly on the riverbank and waiting for the enemy's body to swim by. But I think if the country sees a problem, it has to act. The problem is certainly that several educational institutions that provide Russian-language education are unable to guarantee their graduates the proper proficiency of the Estonian language. This is a major problem because these people are less competitive on the labour market and are unable to participate actively in Estonian public life. This is a problem and needs to be addressed. Perhaps it will resolve itself in one way or another, just as all the problems will eventually be resolved, but the result may not be at all what we would like to see. However, on the second question, whether to shorten upper secondary school time by one year, there has been no debate with my participation, and I also do not know that discussions on this issue are going somewhere. If they happen somewhere, I hope I find out about them now and I can let you know.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U65	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U66	There is so much time left for Question Time that Marika Tuus-Laul can ask a question to Urmas Kruus, Minister of Health and Labour, and Urmas Kruuse can also answer a question. Marika Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U67	Thank you. Mr. Minister! It was said here that there are quite a few registered unemployed people at the moment. Registered unemployment does not actually show an objective situation, as this indicator does not reflect the long-term unemployed or all those who are excluded from registration. But my question is more general. Let's talk about the population problem again. We know that, after regaining independence, Estonia's population has fallen by 250,000 according to official data. Young people who could start a family here and have children will leave Estonia, but there will be no more people, the birth rate has been greatly reduced. Population scientists say there is a population crisis in Estonia, and they have proved it. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U68	Thank you, good questioner! I must sadden you again with statistics, because the rate of long-term unemployment has also fallen to 3.3%, almost twice as much as in the previous period. But that doesn't mean we're still happy with it. I am pleased to tell you, talking about demographic trends, that the birth rate increased after the introduction of parental benefit. The focus of the current government on the issues of increasing child support is precisely because the birth rate is increasing. The Reform Party has offered the idea that the third child's allowance would be EUR 300. We based our studies on the fact that people think very carefully about their economic confidence and how they can cope with life before having a third child. As a minister, I am convinced that we can change demographic trends because it is the only way to preserve our language and culture. Then everything else comes along.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U69	Thanks to the ministers! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U70	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the first Wednesday session of the IXth plenary session. Does anyone want to hand over any drafts or inquiries? That's not what you want today. Then let's, please, check the presence! 78 members of the Riigikogu are present, 23 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U71	The first item on our agenda is the third reading of the draft Act 743 amending the Professional Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Mart Meri, please, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U72	Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to say a few words to the amendments to the professional law, which will soon enter into force on the basis of this draft. Since the professional law is not very political in substance, it inevitably tends to fall under the shadow of drafts that irritate eyes or minds. Yet, it has dozens and hundreds of times more power to influence people than the law of cohabitation or any other such law can ever do. However, apparently technical, the draft deserves to be mentioned here today in terms of its content before the final vote. More importantly, in the coming years, it will also be worth monitoring whether the revised professional law meets its objective by bringing the opportunities and abilities of the educational system closer to each other and the expectations and needs of the labour market. We are now in a situation where almost a third of the working age population aged 25 to 64 is affected by any professional preparation. Nearly a third! Worse still, in recent years the number of younger people aged 25 to 35 who have no professional qualifications has started to rise. Why this is so is not well known. However, if this trend continues and, in addition, small vintages begin to reach working life, the labour market situation will become even more grim. Estonian entrepreneurs and foreign investors already consider the shortage of adequately prepared labour as one of the main brakes of economic development. On the other hand, international comparative studies show that work experience does not increase wages in Estonia and that acquiring higher education increases the wage level of a person relatively little. This, despite our historical face to education, towards education that does not make it a horse thief, but brings bread to the table and makes it feel good, confident at all. An important question is whether the lack of appreciation of work experience and academic education is due to lack of competition or thoughtlessness, inability to demand, offer, ask or risk. At least some of the reasons for being in a wage trap are certainly in a perceived mismatch between the education system and the labour market. At the same time, we will have a decrease in our population and, in particular, the number of working-age persons will fall by 30000 in the next five years. Larger falls are expected especially in positions requiring vocational training: skilled metal and machinery workers, equipment and machinery operators, middle-level specialists in natural and engineering sciences and health care, etc. Tackling these structural inconsistencies and preventing the complete collapse of the labour market is the aim of the most important changes in professional law. The aim is to develop the co-operation capacity of the education system and the labour market, to gather information on the labour market and the various sectors of the economy and to make it high-quality for information as a basis for the preparation of an adequate training order. Simply put, by law, the draft makes the parties who have so far been more divided. These parties are representatives of the interests of the state, in particular the Ministry of Education and Research, who is responsible for a rational training order, as well as the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as well as employers and employees through their professional and professional associations. I hope that there will also be room for the free members' visionaries in the co-ordination body set up under the law, who might give the courage to raise flight altitudes and to bring the development of the Estonian labour market closer to the real needs of today's and the elusive future. Power and strength for the Ministry of Education and Research and the Chamber of Professionals in the effective implementation of the Professional Act! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U73	There's no more calls. The Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 743. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U74	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to say on behalf of the IRL that we, too, support this law. It's a good law, and Mart Meri had a very good speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U75	This speech was a little late, but it is noteworthy nonetheless. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft law amending the professional law initiated by the Government of the Republic 743. Please take a stand and vote. There were 65 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 743 Act, no one opposed and no one abstained. The Act amending the Professional Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U76	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Alcohol Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Commission's waitress is Kalvi Tough. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U77	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Rural Commission discussed draft law amending the Alcohol Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 723 before being sent to second reading at its meeting on 8 December 2014. Meeli Lindsaar, Head of the Trade and Agriculture Industry Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and Agriculture, and Geir Veski, Adviser to the Legal Department, as well as Anne Laar, Head of the Trade Department of the Internal Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, were invited. I'll give you a reminder of what the 723 bill is all about. The draft clarifies the regulation and terminology of synthetic and denatured alcohol and simplifies the procedures for registering alcohol to reduce red tape. The bill introduces a ban on the handling of synthetic and denatured alcohol in the Alcohol Act. According to the draft, the operator will no longer be required to submit samples of products to the Food and Veterinary Office. The definition of alcoholic beverages is also clarified and the general part of the Code of Economic Activities Act adopted here specifies the terminology relating to economic activities. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 5 November last year, members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. However, the Commission prepared four amendments with the Ministry and sent us here. Now let's take a brief look at them. The first amendment is made to harmonise the text and to create legal clarity, the official names being updated using the name and the words "European Union," "non-Union" and "Union." So this is a clarification proposal. However, it is not Amendment 2, which states that the offer, sale or conclusion of any debt-law contract, or the making available or transfer of alcohol to the consumer on any legal basis within the framework of an economic activity, is prohibited under that law. In short, this means that, if it has been heard that alcohol can be rented or borrowed under a debt-law contract even during a ban on alcohol, it will be prohibited in the future as a result of this amendment. Amendment 3 clarifies the checks to be carried out when deciding whether to register alcohol. This is also a clarification of the nature of the proposal. The fourth amendment is also clear and includes a point in the law on the information to be published on the website of the Register of Alcohol. There must now also be a colour photograph of the consumer packaging. During the Commission's meeting, a number of other issues arising from the Alcohol Act were discussed, but they did not result from an amendment, but were of a informative and educational nature to the members of the Commission. The Commission decided to propose that 723 be placed on the agenda for the plenary session on 14 January. a (consensually) and propose that the second reading of draft 723 be terminated (also decided by consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U78	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Four amendments to the draft have been tabled, all from the Committee on Rural Affairs and fully taken into account. Let us review these: the first, second, third and fourth proposals. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading. The second reading of Bill 723 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U79	Our next item is the second reading of the draft building code 555 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Borodichi, Member of the Economic Commission for the Chair, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U80	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, As a preliminary point, I would remind you that the draft building code was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 9 December 2013. The first reading of the bill took place in the Riigikogu's plenary session on 25 February last year and the first reading was closed. The second reading in Riigikogu's plenary session took place on 3 December last year and the second reading was interrupted on the proposal of the commission. Since then, a number of Commission meetings have taken place, including public sessions, and a large number of proposals have been received from a wide range of parties. As we are in the middle of a second reading of the draft, I am talking about the amendments that were dealt with in the Commission. A total of 28 amendments were received. I am not talking about everyone because some of them are technical, expressive, etc. But I think it would be important to highlight some here. For example, the initiator of the draft has proposed to amend § 25 (3) of the draft, which currently reads as follows: "A statement of economic activity has been submitted when a competent person's legal relationship with an undertaking is established in the register of economic activities. " According to the proposal, it should have been added: "A competent person may not at the same time act as the competent person of more than three undertakings. "The proposal for this amendment was received from an association of construction companies, which are convinced that the introduction of such a requirement is essential and would make a major contribution to the organisation of the construction market and would not disproportionately restrict the freedom of the construction companies to conduct their business. In any case, the idea of this proposal is very clear: that abuse should not be committed in relation to the competent person. I have heard that some competent persons operate in even more than a hundred companies. Clearly, this is not real, human competence is simply being exploited and, in fact, this person is not operating on the objects of these companies. However, the Commission had doubts that such a restriction could be unconstitutional and restricting the freedom to conduct a business. We decided to order a preliminary examination from the Legal and Analytical Department of the Registry as to whether this provision could be unconstitutional. I'm not going to read all these paragraphs right now. Katre Tubro concluded that, on the basis of the preliminary assessment, the proposed regulation appears to be contrary to the Constitution because of disproportionate interference with § 29 and § 31. The instrument to achieve the objective is indirect, it only covers some of the situations of concern and the application of the restriction does not allow any consideration, which in turn would lead to unjustified unequal treatment between different groups of persons. We voted in committee on this amendment, but I think it is precisely because it could be unconstitutional that the proposal was not supported by the Commission. Let's keep going. I am talking about proposal No 6, which provides for the amendment of § 27 (4) (1) of the draft text to read as follows: "The purpose of the use, including the proportion of the intended use of the plot which is the basis for the use of the dwelling or office building, may be specified, if both of the corresponding intended uses are previously foreseen in the detailed plan. " In short, the purpose of this provision is to allow for more flexibility in the exercise of the building rights granted in the detailed plan. Since this provision concerns plans older than five years, it may be justified to change the use of the building from apartment to office or vice versa due to the changed economic situation (construction market) or other circumstances. According to that provision, this would only be allowed if both destinations were provided for by the original building right of the site. For example, according to the old plan, 90% of the plot is commercial land and 10% is residential land, but the situation may change in such a way that it is more reasonable to reverse the target use: 10% would be commercial land and 90% would be residential land. This proposal was supported by the Commission. We also decided to support proposal No 8 on a situation where the building stock being built can be regarded as one building complex, for example, the parking lot is common throughout the planning area. This provision also concerns plans older than five years. Similarly, due to a changed situation or other circumstances, it may be justified to specify the boundaries of the building law of the planning area, including the boundaries of the plot, within the limits of the construction law given to the planning area, so that the construction volume and construction boundaries do not change. This proposal was supported. I will also talk a little about the proposal No 15, which provides for the amendment of Paragraph 54 (4) as follows: "The competent authority shall grant authorisation within 30 days of the date on which the application is submitted. The competent authority shall give no more than 10 days for coordination or for the purpose of issuing an opinion. " This proposal came from the Central Party Group. Why is this important? In particular, because there is no substantive need for regulation, which obliges draft authorisations, and this increases unnecessary bureaucracy. Instead, the time allowed for processing by the competent authority should be used to examine the document. We in the Commission found that this is a very sensible proposal. The Economic Commission also supported a similar change in terms of the provisions of the construction permit procedure when a similar change was made. The amendments on road maintenance are also important. As you are very different, it is not possible to introduce in a single regulation all the requirements needed to ensure safety. The additional sections clearly identified the responsibility of the road owner to organise road maintenance and to create conditions for safe traffic. However, as regards buildings or facilities on the road and those responsible to the citizen if they are not in order, the decision was taken unanimously that the owner of the road would still have to take responsibility for the citizen, but that the owner of the facility would have to be responsible for the maintenance, so that he would have to compensate for the costs incurred by the road owner in accordance with the procedure. I come to procedural decisions. The first decision was to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 14 January, i.e. today. The Commission also proposed to close the second reading, which was decided by consensus. It was decided to send the draft to the third reading when the second reading was completed by 28 January 2015 as well as a consensual decision. The last decision was to propose a final vote on the draft, which was also a consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U81	Questions for the waitress. Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U82	Good manager! Good waitress! I'll look at the table on the construction notice, the construction project and the mandatory nature of the building permit. I understand that when I build a 20-square meter building, I don't have to do anything, just pick up and build. But if I want to build a non-residential building, I think I should make a construction note and everything. What's the reality? The building where people are going to live does not require anything to be presented 20 square meters, of course, is also a very small area, but for a non-housing building, I should send a note that I am doing something.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U83	Thank you. I'll answer in general. The purpose of this law was to review the arrangements for permits for buildings and to establish the exact requirements, starting with the strictest time when a construction project is needed, including the design conditions, but when the design conditions are sufficient, in which case the obligation to notify is sufficient and when nothing needs to be done at all. In order to be understood by ordinary people, Annex 1 is included in the draft. From there, every person, just as you have, before he starts building something, can see if he has to notify, make a construction project and apply for a building permit or do nothing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U84	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! It is undoubtedly a very voluminous and complex draft. It is also said that the third year has come in dealing with this, in 2013, we started this work and now it is 2015. So the members of the Riigikogu have done a lot of work, but more has been done by several professional associations, I mean architects, builders, etc. The costaires have said that they want to stop reading the bill once more. Do you think this bill is mature to go on with him, or do you think it is necessary to interrupt the procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U86	Thank you. My position is clearly expressed in the Commission decision. As I said, the other members of the Commission unanimously supported the decision that the second reading should be completed. If I follow the Commission's decision, I understand that not only do I support the decision to end this draft successfully, but it is supported by all the political groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U87	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U88	Thank you. Dear Commission waitress, I will return to § 25 (3) of the bill, which you have already mentioned. It refers to the activities of the competent person and to working for up to three entrepreneurs. You also said in the Commission that there were several times when it said that there could be a slash of the Constitution, namely, § 29 and § 31. But I've been consulting lawyers who say there's no barricade here. The reason is very simple: we have not said that this person can only work in one company, but may work in up to three companies. That rules out the latches. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U89	Thank you. In order that we should not simply rely on my opinion or on someone else's opinion, the Office of the Riigikogu has a legal and analytical department. We had doubts that there might be a problem here. That is why we sent this proposal to the Legal and Analytical Department for analysis and they pointed out that there might be problems here. We have no reason to doubt the work of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, do we? Of course, where there are two lawyers, there are three opinions, I agree with that. However, we do not have enough certainty that, in any case, despite the suspicion that problems might arise here, we will proceed with this amendment. As we have said in the Commission, this is a problem. Indeed, competent individuals are sometimes deceived. As I said, there are examples that one competent person may be employed in dozens of companies. This is not right, because safety suffers and so on. But how do we solve this problem? Perhaps you remember that we in the Commission found that merely imposing a restriction does not guarantee the desired result. At least at present, this activity has to be registered and it can be seen through the register of economic activities how many companies have a competent person. If he's doing a lot of things, the record's gonna turn red. But when this activity takes place in the field of services, I think that officials or anyone else do not have a clear picture of what this practice is like. I said there's a problem here. We all realized we had to come up with something. I think this solution could be a problem right now. Rather, maybe the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Justice could take the builders and lawyers of a working group and think about what this solution might be. Everyone understands the goal, everyone supports it, but the problem is how to achieve it. However, I think that this must be dealt with, even though the Commission did not support this wording.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U90	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U91	Good waitress! I will continue with the question of Jaan Apple Tree. It is clear from the explanatory memorandum that the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu did not say that there was a contradiction here, but said that there might be a contradiction. At the same time, the Association of Construction Undertakings, which represents the interests of these companies, has said in a quite unambiguous and understandable way that they support this decision, i.e. they do not see their own limitation here. I therefore ask you to clarify the substantive position of the Members of the Commission on this matter. What were the results of the vote and what position did you take personally in this vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U92	Yeah, I got this analysis coming up. To be correct, I will read it out again: "It seems from an initial assessment that the proposed regulation may be unconstitutional. " When I introduced it before, that is how I read it. As I said, there is a suspicion that this could be unconstitutional. I am not at my fingertips at the moment, but there was quite a serious discussion in the Commission on this subject and the decision was not consensual. As I said, in the debate at the Commission, everyone said that there is a problem here and that this must be dealt with in some way. However, since there is even a hypothetical risk that this provision might be unconstitutional, the majority of the members of the Commission did not have the confidence to support this proposal in this form. That's why he couldn't find any support.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U93	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U94	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! I looked at § 69 "Energy efficiency of the heating and cooling system." This is the point: "If the nominal capacity of the heat unit is greater than 20 kilowatts and the rated capacity of the cooling unit is greater than 12 kilowatts, their technical data shall be recorded in the building register. "20 kilowatts is not the highest power. There are a lot of even houses or apartments with two, three or four apartments, even here in Kalamaja, but also elsewhere. What happens if these houses, renovating their thermal equipment, do not register them in the building register?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U95	Thank you. I have the right to talk about what was the subject of the debate in the committee. The Commission did not propose that this provision be formulated in any other way, relaxed or, on the contrary, tightened. Therefore, this issue was not discussed at the Commission meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U96	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U97	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I'm just gonna say, just in case, check out that extra 1 again, because I think there's a mistake in there. If I'm building a house, I don't have to do anything, but if I'm building an auxiliary building, I'm gonna have to file a building statement. If the building could be five meters high, it's as if I could build a 40-square meter building without submitting any documents to anyone. The second topic is what Erki said, that the gas roof is certainly more powerful than 20 kilowatts, so you could review this point before reading the third one. I come now to the subject of design. Unfortunately, there is one very important thing that is not written here. There is no requirement for spatial design either in public procurement or in standard procurement. Construction would be 20% cheaper if there were spatial design. I also propose that this point be reviewed before the third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U98	Question time's up. The negotiations are still coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U99	Thank you. Certainly before the third reading, when the second reading is completed, there will be a lot of time for the draft to be reviewed, both in terms of linguistic editing and in other respects.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U100	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U101	Thank you very much. It's been a while, but there's still a lot of confusion. The meeting of the Economic Commission took place on 8 January, but on 12 January the Ministry of Culture sent a letter, which had discovered contradictions in this very draft construction code. I have a technical question. What about the proposals made by the Ministry of Culture on 12 January?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U102	As I said, there is now a second reading of the bill. If it is decided to conclude the second reading today, then the third reading will take place on 28 January. That's what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U103	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U104	Thank you. Good waitress! I understood that there was, however, a vote in the Commission. You talked about most of the decision. Once again, I would ask you to tell us what the outcome of the vote in the Commission and what position you personally took during the vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U105	Thank you. I have that now specified, the result of the vote was four: four. You asked me how I voted. I did not support this proposal for the reasons already mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U106	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U107	Thank you. The issue of self-employed people was also discussed in the Commission. This specialist in charge may register as a self-employed person. But I would like to remind you that self-employed persons must also comply with the obligation to provide information if they want to pursue a regulated activity. Under a management contract, self-employed persons can operate in several dozen companies at the same time as their abilities naturally allow. However, a self-employed person cannot be the basis for the registration of another company; it can only be a competent natural person. So there is still a conflict between a natural person and a legal person. Do you think that a self-employed person could operate in more than three companies if this change had gone through?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U108	Yes, some members of the Commission pointed out that these risks existed. I realized that the Ministry officials also confirmed that these risks could arise. But as I said, this was not the main argument why the result of the vote was 4: 4. As I said, the main reason is that there may be a contradiction with the Constitution. But once again, there is a problem. All the members of the Commission said that we would all like these threats to be avoided as well as construction safety.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U109	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U110	Thank you. During the last discussion of the amendments, one topic was the use of the building. As we have learned from the next draft, the use and purpose are different concepts. In the Commission, both the representatives of the Ministry and the members of the Commission also stated that these concepts are properly unfitting and contradictory. Am I completely wrong when I complain that it is unwise to adopt laws where the basic concepts are vague and conflicting?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U111	As a member of the Riigikogu, you are entitled to your opinion. But when the second reading is finished, before the draft is sent to the third reading, we were thinking specifically of giving more time just for editing so that the language editor could re-examine all the words and commas. That's why two weeks are planned here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U112	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You certainly had close cooperation with local government organisations in the Commission. As we know, at the last moment they sent a call for the members of the Riigikogu to act as a statesman and to proceed with this draft, would not adopt the law in a hurry and the discussion would continue. In what ways do municipalities see the greatest threat they have posed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U114	First of all, I would like to express my opinion on whether the draft has been dealt with in a hurry. At first, I deliberately pointed out when this bill was going to be processed. The draft was launched in 2013, but now it is 2015. So this job has been going on for two years. Has it been done in haste? I don't think so. At government level, a working group was set up in its own time, involving representatives and municipalities of several associations. The public meetings also took place when the bill reached the Riigikogu. We worked with the Ministry on all their proposals. Is that enough or not? I think it's up to everyone. Two years and dozens and dozens of working groups and Commission meetings, in my opinion, cannot be said to be rushed. Of course, some people could process it for another ten years if they had to. There are always those who say that this comma is in the wrong place or there's a word missing here. My personal opinion is that this draft has not been dealt with in a hasty way, but in a very constructive way. Most of the decisions on the amendments received were consensual and the amendments could be tabled several times.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U115	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U116	Thank you. I have a simple question. When we adopt the building code, will all parties ?, builders, designers and local government officials who are required to issue all kinds of documents make the work easier, faster and clearer?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U117	Thank you. The construction code is a codification of laws. In the past, you regulated the field of construction, if my memory isn't deceived, 12 laws, now it's all in one law together. First, life becomes easier, because everything is in one law and there are no longer 12 laws to read. Secondly, the construction of different buildings is subject to different authorisation obligations. Sometimes you need a building permit, sometimes you need information, but in certain cases nothing needs to be done. So people's lives get easier, too. State fees will also be reduced. I think that there is good news for consumers when all activities have become cheaper. Yes, I think this law is necessary and important and ultimately serves the aims of our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U118	Pursuant to § 68 (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, a member of the Riigikogu has the right to two... Thank you. Jüri Morozov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U119	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! The big problem in Estonia is how people with disabilities can access public objects. You said that this bill had been dealt with for a long time and that there were many interest groups involved. Were representative organisations of persons with disabilities also involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U120	I talked about it the last time there was a second reading, which was then interrupted. If memory doesn't fool me, there's been more than 70 organizations working together. I really don't know by heart what kind of organizations they were. But I have not received any feedback that one or the other category has not been included.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U121	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Lembit Rockvee, please! Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Is this a necessary law? Sure. Is the law good? I think he's quite good in order not to interrupt reading today and go on with the procedure. Why do I think that? You see, it is now possible to register the company electronically in 15 or 20 minutes. But once this is done, it may take years for the company to start its production activity, or until construction begins. I will take the example of the Port of Tallinn, where they may want to build a terminal. It's gonna be a year, two, three, four years, but it can't start. Why? One reason is that more than ten laws currently regulate the construction sector. Now it's all put together. It was cumbersome and complicated to start construction and to do construction work at all. I'm not saying it's going to be easy and good now. I think it is a law of such great volume and so many areas of life that it is not possible to make it finally good and ready. We don't have the brains to do that. We cannot agree on these things; proposals will be good and even better, smarter and dumber in the future. I'm afraid if we keep reading the second one, we're actually going over this thing. We just can't make it any better. In some places we may be able to make better, but in another place we make worse, and ultimately we have won nothing. That is why my position is what I said at the beginning that the second reading of the draft should be completed today. Anyone who still has good proposals, make them. The Commission will examine them and we will go, there is no point in dragging them over. I recall what Deniss said that when we started working on this topic, it was 2013. So what are we talking about here? Let's not rush. Please, let's get on with this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U123	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U124	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll pick up where Lembit left off. Since there are really thoughts in the air that the second reading could be interrupted, or maybe we don't need a building code and planning law at all, I want to talk over some basics. Indeed, we have been working on this draft for over a year and there have been dozens, if not hundreds, of meetings infinitely, both ordinary and public meetings of the Commission. Looks like the big picture tends to disappear. Why am I worried? Because we can achieve the opposite result in the search for perfection, to which Lembit also hinted. If we interrupt the second reading now, we will most likely not adopt the building code, the planning law or the law on their implementation, and all the work that has been done for two years has gone empty. In order for you to reconsider, I will repeat a few basics why we need this law. Firstly, because it brings together a large number of laws, according to me, eight laws that currently govern this area. This is a long step forward towards a simpler procedure if a person finds out from one place what he or she may or may not do with his or her property. The process of monitoring construction will be harmonised throughout the country. The construction regulations of the local government largely lose their meaning, as the regulation is included in the new law. The state fees are decreasing. The Building Code reduces the obligation to ask for permits. It is clearly regulated when the building is to be notified and when to apply for a building permit. Notification of construction without a building permit is free of state fees, reducing the costs of private individuals and reducing the administrative burden on local authorities. A building permit and authorisation must be granted in a smaller number of cases. The time for granting a building permit decreases, the whole procedure begins with electronic coordination in the building register, and the person no longer has to run from one authority to another because of the coordination. The building code contains clear and good principles: good construction practice, safety, environmental sustainability and expertise. The contractor must prove his competence. The building code has assigned the competence to monitor construction safety to the Technical Surveillance Authority. At present, only local authorities have it. The supervision of the safety of public buildings is tightened. For example, the safety of shopping centres must be monitored more rigorously. The six-year practice of the Supreme Court has been codified in the draft of the Building Code and also the Planning Act. The construction law in force has become difficult to read and implemented due to numerous changes. For the last three or four years, the amendment of the Construction Act has been avoided, justifying that all the problems can be better solved by a new law, a whole text. As has been said, the Construction Act and the Planning Act together replace at least eight existing laws. Norms will be less in the future, more legal clarity. I have nothing against the discussion and clarification of the details, but it must be taken into account that there are four working weeks left in this House, the Commission three. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, if I'm not mistaken, there are 17 drafts. By arguing about some small details of this big picture, we risk not adopting these very important laws during the working hours of this composition and losing another year. For example, the Planning Act also concerns the construction of Rail Baltic, special plans, sea wind parks. There are many areas that are relevant to Estonia's development, where there is now a great deal of confusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U125	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U126	If you look at all the laws, all kinds of building laws have been practiced by mankind for the longest time. The first written reports we have on the law still govern the construction. In this sense, I agree with my colleagues who say that this can continue to be made better. My personal view is that if we compare the building code and the planning law, the construction code has almost worked out well. Its impact is also significantly less than that of the Planning Act. Possible errors in the construction code can be corrected much faster. They concern more local activities, the impact of which is not as large and as general as those governed by the Planning Act. I am concerned about this, however, that despite the long time spent there, the construction code procedure has been just as weak as the planning law procedure has been. The proposals of non-profit associations and professional associations outside political parties have not been discussed in substance in the Commission. However, in order to preserve the reputation of the Riigikogu, it must be said that this is not a common practice in the Riigikogu; rather, it is our practice that whoever has proposed this proposal is still being discussed in the committee. The previous speaker, Arto Aas, said that there are 17 other drafts in the Commission and, as a result, the law should be adopted quickly. This, of course, cannot be the justification for the adoption of any law. To correct the errors, I would mention that the Ministry of Justice was unable to answer the question of whether or not the planning law concerned the establishment of Rail Baltic. It is unknown what the retroactive effect of this law will be and to what extent it can be applied retroactively. That's what Sandra Mikli said, the writer of the law. However, the lack of the construction code is that the main purpose of its preparation, i.e. to reconcile it with the Planning Act, is to make it one law unfulfilled. If it is advertised that the owner of the property now knows exactly what to do on his property, it is also misleading information, because the main concepts are opened by a decree of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. For example, whether the terrace is a landscaping element or a building, we find out every time about the current regulations of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The issues of substance are smaller here, but these two draft laws do not match. I call on you, at least, not to adopt both laws together, because even the terms used in these two laws do not coincide. Let me give you a simple example. In the Building Code, the requirements of the Energy Performance of Buildings Chapter are applicable to an environmental building area determined on the basis of a general or detailed plan, but such a term is no longer included in the Planning Act, which is an old term of the Act. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association proposed that the planning law also mention an environmentally valuable building block, but this proposal was not supported. There are a number of such contradictions. But once again, compared to the law of planning, this law gets a pretty normal grade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U127	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U128	Madam President! Mr Aas, ladies and gentlemen, President of the Committee on Economic Affairs. The Social Democrats believe that the building code should be adopted during this parliamentary term, and for that we really have only a brief time left. The Committee on Economic Affairs has dealt with this draft law thoroughly, its second reading has already been interrupted once, but nevertheless, as we have heard today, there are some nuances that could be improved before the law is finally passed. These few nuances may also be technical details, but they are certainly important in Estonia. With respect for the work schedule and workload of the Economic Commission, I hope that the suspension of second reading, the discussion of certain amendments and the adoption of procedural decisions will fit within the working time of the Economic Commission. I repeat that the Social Democratic Party hopes that the draft will become a law during its membership, that it will fit within the framework of the work of the Committee on Economic Affairs, and proposes that the second reading be suspended once again in order to make improvements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U129	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. Amendment 1 is from the Economic Commission, fully taken into account, no 2 is from the Economic Commission, fully taken into account, no 3 is from the Economic Commission, full account, no 4 is from the Economic Commission, full account is taken of the Economic Commission, no 5 is from the Economic Commission, full account is taken of the Economic Commission, no 6 is from the Economic Commission, full account is taken of the Economic Commission, no 7 is from the Economic Commission, full account is from the Economic Commission, no 8 is from the Economic Commission, no 9 is from the Group of the Centre Party, the proposal of the Steering Commission is not taken into account (Rule 106 (2) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly), no 10 is from the Economic Commission, no 11 is from the Economic Commission, full account is from the Economic Commission, no 12 is from the Economic Commission, the proposal of the Central Party is fully taken into account, no 13 is from the Economic Commission, the proposal of the Central Commission is not taken into account (no vote), no 14 is from the Economic Commission, no 22 has been fully taken into account, the proposal of the Economic Commission has been fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. Since we have received a proposal from the Social Democratic Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft law, we must vote through it. Let's get ready for the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group to interrupt the second reading of bill 555. Please take a stand and vote. 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 30 against and no abstentions. The Social Democratic Party Group's proposal was therefore supported. Second reading aborted. The deadline for submitting amendments is 19 January 2015 at 14 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U130	The next item is the second reading of the Draft Planning Act 571 initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, I would like to ask Deniss Borodichi, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U131	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Let me talk to you about the draft law on planning. I would like to remind you once again that the draft law on planning was initiated by the Government of the Republic a year ago, on 13 January 2014. The first reading of the bill in Riigikogu's plenary session took place on 25 February 2014 and it was closed. The second reading of the bill in Riigikogu's plenary session took place on 3 December 2014 and was suspended on the proposal of the leading committee. It was given the opportunity to submit additional proposals, which were also made. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the amendments to the draft and the continuation of the second reading of the draft. a meeting on 8 January. I am talking about what kind of issues the Commission was dealing with. The proposals differed widely, with 40 amendments received within the deadline. Here, too, some of the amendments were of a technical nature or wording. I will not stop at them, but I will talk about more important proposals. For example, Amendment 3 has a very important impact, which refers to the activities needed to implement the plan. According to this proposal, § 3 (5) of the draft had to be supplemented by a renumbering of the following paragraphs: "The decision establishing the plan on the basis of which the construction project was drawn up may lay down the activities necessary for the implementation of the plan and, where appropriate, the order in which they are to be arranged. The activities necessary for the implementation of the plan and, where appropriate, their order shall be included in the decision to adopt the plan at the latest. "This paragraph provides for a derogation from the previous paragraph, paragraph 4, according to which the additional information to be included in the plan shall include the activities necessary for the implementation of the plan and, where appropriate, the order in which they are to be carried out, the so-called plan implementation plan. For example, according to the amendment, the plans on which the construction project is based, whether the detailed plan, the special plan of the municipality or the decision establishing the special plan of the state, may also provide for the activities necessary for the implementation of the plan and their order. This means that this is not an annex to the plan, but this requirement includes decisions to establish the plan. This gives an opportunity, for example, to require the construction of infrastructure before the plan is realised or something like that, giving potential customers the assurance that the plan will be realised according to its intended purpose. The following proposal provides for a mandate for the Minister to establish by regulation the requirements for implementing the principles of planning and specifying the task of planning. At present, the Ministry of the Interior is drawing up so-called planning guidelines, the content of which is not only to clarify the task of planning, but also to clarify other requirements, including the definitions and principles to be followed when implementing the provisions. Given that it may appear during the drafting process that some requirements may not need to be drawn up immediately, the proposal is to introduce a mandate rule in a promising manner rather than a commitment. This was proposed by the Ministry of the Interior, which is also developing these guidelines. The following amendment makes it more clear that the principles of balanced development will be taken into account when drawing up the plans. The needs of the social, economic, cultural and natural environment are taken into account, i.e. they should all be considered. The following amendment was tabled by my colleague, Mart Meri. According to his proposal, the Minister of the Interior may set up a council of up to 20 members to advise the planner and develop guidelines for achieving balanced spatial development that takes into account the long-term needs and interests of members of society. There is also a working group at the Ministry of the Interior, which includes representatives of several organisations, but the Mart Meri proposal provided that the Minister should have the right to convene a council which would act not only to develop specific guidelines, but to work continuously and advise the Minister on these issues. The Commission considered it necessary to support this amendment. It is therefore possible for the Minister of the Interior to convene a council. Let me tell you a little bit more about the change in the procedure for drawing up the country's special plan. In the past, it was stated that the country's special plan must be drawn up for the national territory or part of it on the national road, public railways, pipelines, including gas routes, etc. It was not specified which parameters this pipeline would have to comply with. AS Elering commented that the term "pipe wire including gas pipeline" is confusing, since it is not known whether the specific planning of the state must be drawn up for each building and at the same time there are no definitions of these buildings. The proposal clarifies the working pressure of the compulsory pipeline for the preparation of the country's special plan, which is more than 16 bar. Now, let me tell you a little bit more about the deadline for the implementation of the country's special plan. According to the amendment, the country's special plan will cease to be valid if the plan has not been implemented after five years. The words "no building permit" are deleted. Why? Because the country's special plan may be long-term projects funded from foreign funds, so it may not always be possible to apply for a building permit for a period of five years, but it may be possible to carry out previous operations (construction design, coordination, etc.), which can be regarded as starting to implement the plan. However, as I said, the country's special plan has a fixed deadline of five years, which cannot be exceeded. Another important amendment is No 18 on when a new public exhibition and a public consultation are needed. This is now also necessary if the EIA report is to be substantially amended. If it's a minor change, you don't have to. I'm also going to tell you a little bit about the heritage objects. At the request of the Ministry of Culture and on the proposal of the National Heritage Board, it is proposed to include in the Act a provision that special conditions need not be drawn up if the National Heritage Board agrees, provided that the planned activities do not substantially alter the established spatial situation or the preservation and observation of the heritage reserve. As I said, this is a proposal from the National Heritage Board, which has been supported by both the Ministry of Culture and the members of the Commission. That is a very sensible proposal. If we do not restrict this requirement, this extended requirement may be taken in such a way that special conditions are mandatory even if there is a fixed monument or protection zone in the overall planning area. Then specific conditions should be drawn up for almost all general plans, which are neither reasonable nor justified. The proposal was therefore supported. What, though, happens in a situation where there are changes in the resolution of differences in the overall planning that change the basic solution of the plan? The plan shall then be sent to the parties affected by the amendment before it is established and, if necessary, a new public presentation and a public consultation shall be organised. Thus, inclusion will increase if the basic solution of the plan is changed. Amendment 26 provides for the amendment of § 96 of the draft. Its aim is to ensure uniform understanding. This provision makes it more clear that the special plan of the local government is only drawn up if the location of an object with significant spatial impact is not chosen by the overall plan, i.e. the selection of the site is also important in the first phase. A very long discussion arose over the proposal of the Centre Party Group that a detailed plan would be needed if the existing building were to be expanded by more than 33% of its initially planned ground capacity. In the current version of the law, there was no precise definition but simply a "volume." The Centre Party considered it necessary to clarify this and to write down the "ground volume' so that the other volume would not be taken into account if the existing building was to be expanded. Of course, this proposal was not supported by the Commission. Proposal 31, which specifies which detailed planning tasks are necessary in the preparation of the detailed plan in order to give the municipality the obligation to grant access to all properties covered by the detailed plan and to ensure that they are linked to the technical networks and, at the same time, to ensure the viability of the solution. Proposal No 32 is important and novel, as there was so far no clear regulation in the draft, which would allow the local government not to initiate a detailed plan if it did not have the means to fulfil the obligation to build the planned facilities and the person interested in the plan was not prepared to assume the costs. Amendment 32 now creates this possibility. Amendment 33 is also important. It states here that, for good reason, in particular the size of the planning area, the need to carry out studies, the identification of the circumstances which warrant the conclusion of an administrative contract, or the large number of actors involved and co-operating, the deadline may be extended to 90 days. This provision concerns the initiation of a detailed plan. The current text provides for fixed deadlines, while in certain cases it may be difficult to respect deadlines. These changes are therefore important. Amendment 38 refers to the obligation to build roads and technical installations provided for in the detailed plan, which is the responsibility of the local authority, and deals with cases where the municipality has not transferred this obligation to anyone. If it has not transferred this obligation in the management contract or has not fixed it in the detailed plan implementation plan, the municipality must build all these facilities itself. These were the most important amendments that we addressed in the Commission. Now I'm going to go to the procedural decisions. Firstly, we had a proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 14 January (this decision was consensual). Secondly, we propose that the second reading be stopped (also a consensual decision of the Members of the Commission). Thirdly, we propose that the draft be sent to third reading when the second one is closed by 28 January 2015 (and this was also a consensual decision). Finally, we propose that the draft be put to the final vote at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U132	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U133	Thank you, manager. Honourable Commission waitress. I'm asking about one difference in the law in force compared to the new draft. This concerns the national planning side that they will no longer need to be coordinated with the local government in the future. Municipalities have also sent letters, made a number of proposals and pointed out, on the basis of a concrete example, a more general problem that, in fact, inclusion in several points becomes seeming, formal and not substantive, because these proposals will not have to be taken into account in the future. Did the Commission discuss this issue? Why is this direction taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U134	Thank you. As the Members of the Commission did not raise this issue, this issue was not addressed at the initiative of any political group. There was no debate on this topic in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U135	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U136	Thank you. Several professional associations have put forward their proposals, but they were not discussed in the Commission. The association that directly connects specialists, the Estonian Planners' Association, presented a number of proposals which the Commission did not address at all. What was the reason that you did not bring on the Commission's table the proposals of this professional organisation, which is most directly composed of professionals in this field?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U137	Thank you. Please, Siret Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U138	That's where you're wrong. We have also held public meetings of the Commission, which were broadcast online and where several experts were present. So it's not right to say that they weren't involved. All these proposals have also been examined by the initiator of the draft, so this argument is not true. Thirdly, as I said, we have already interrupted the procedure for this draft. If a member of the Riigikogu found that one or the other topic had not been dealt with in the draft or had been mistreated, he was able to correct it with an amendment. All amendments received within the deadline were examined by the Commission. So I don't see the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U139	Good manager! Good waitress! If we adopt this law, how will it apply to the planning that is currently under way and whose proceedings are pending?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U140	Thank you. What do you mean? I think this law will apply from July if memory doesn't deceive me. Then he will apply to all the plans that are in progress. Of course, the plans that have already been put in place, he doesn't touch.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U141	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U142	Thank you. I'll pick up where I left off. Surprisingly, you did not discuss this, because local governments and several municipalities have sent out a number of proposals and referred to this bottleneck. It is really strange that you in the Commission are not discussing the proposals sent in writing. My specific question from here on is this. They say there's more bureaucracy. Is it that local authorities' rights are being reduced, but bureaucracy is growing? Was it discussed in the Commission that, if coordination is not needed in the future, the state has decided to drive over the municipality and not to take into account the locals, will it be compensated? Was there any mention of this system?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U143	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U144	I think your assessment is subjective and I think it is based on a press release today that said that bureaucracy is increasing. I'm not so sure about that. In the Commission, we did not identify any measure; no one has measured whether bureaucracy is increasing or decreasing. I don't really agree with you here. As regards why the Commission did not discuss this, it must be said that we did address it in the working group. Those members of the Economic Commission who were interested in this draft took part in working groups where a representative of the initiator was also present. It addressed not only those proposals that had been received in formal form, but also all other proposals, but also those that had come by simple letter. If your group is of the opinion that any position or topic had not been addressed, then your group members were able to make an amendment and we would certainly have taken a position in the Commission on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U145	Thank you. Almost all of this bill talks about the requirements we make for plan makers to be involved. You mentioned that there has been sufficient involvement during the procedure for the draft, as there have been several public sessions. I saw that on 10 December the Estonian Planners' Association sent its in-depth proposals for the second reading text. Can you tell us which public hearings have taken place since then?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U146	Thank you. Before the respondent starts answering, I'll say there's always some sort of permanent co-location in the hall. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U147	There has been no public hearing since 10 December, but we have gone over these issues in the working group with the initiator of the draft, and the proposals that we considered necessary have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U148	Thank you. Please, Siret Eagle, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U149	Good manager! Good waitress! Will the Rail Baltic plan be established under the new law even if it is contrary to the general plan of the municipality and the municipality has not agreed to change its current general plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U150	Thank you. This draft certainly does not deal with Rail Baltic or any other specific project, but it does lay down specific rules on how and by what procedure can be done to build state-of-the-art objects, including, of course, Rail Baltic. While local authorities always had the right to veto any planning so far, the procedure of the special planning of the state changes this a little. The cases in which a special national plan is to be drawn up are listed and in such cases the local authority no longer has veto rights. This does not mean, however, that this distortion of interest does not have to be considered. It must be proportionate. No one's interests are disproportionately affected by this plan. If someone's interests are harmed, it must be compensated.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U151	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Pines!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U152	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! We were talking about the local government alliances. You gave it your opinion. The expenditure side is set by the budget law and must be compensated either way. But let's talk competence. Can you comment on how much they lose in their jurisdiction? Secondly, I expect the Commission to have negotiated with them. How many compromises did you manage to reach when you discussed the proposals they tabled? Were compromises possible or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U153	Thank you. That was a very broad question. We have been working on this bill for about a year and we have been doing it from very different angles. The Ministry of Justice, the initiator of the draft, has also negotiated a number of negotiations with both the Cities Association and the Association of Municipalities. These proposals, which supported the objective of the draft, were supported. If I had any doubts that this bill was not good, I would not have supported sending it to third reading in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U154	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Deniss Borodich. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Kalev Kallo! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U155	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm mainly talking about the draft planning law, but I'm also going to make a few clues to the draft construction code, because these laws are pretty much connected in practical life. First of all, I would like to mention the fact that the Chancellor of Justice has also pointed out in the planning law proceedings. Specifically, the requirements for the layout of the plan. The mandate rule aims to establish uniform rules on how the planning document is to be finalised throughout the country. This is necessary to ensure a coherent structure, clarity and readability of plans, including detailed planning, in all local authorities, regardless of their size and capacity. However, both the Planning Act and the Construction Act provide for the right of the respective ministers, not the obligation to establish uniform rules across Estonia. This does not ensure that planning is uniform in different parts of Estonia. As a plus of the Planning Act, the author of the draft has stated that the obligation to draw up a detailed plan will be reduced. In fact, if the law enters into force, however, it will also be necessary to draw up a detailed plan for the construction of an installation with a significant public interest, while according to the current planning law, the detailed plan is required only for the construction of a building or for the division of the area into plots. All the more so can be supported here by the amendments made by the Economic Commission, which give local authorities the opportunity to clarify the plan that has been lost in time. I consider it important to note that according to the judgment of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of 16 March 2010 in case No 3-4-1-8-09, the state in the laws which impose obligations on the local government must state whether the task is self-governing or state-owned, whereas the costs of the state obligations imposed on the local government by law are covered by the state budget. Despite concrete proposals by local authorities, there is no explanation of how the costs of public commitments will be covered. For example, the Planning Act does not provide for state fees for the detailed planning procedure, although this entails real costs for the municipality. Compared to the law in force, the revenue base of local governments decreases when the laws are implemented, as the state fee for building permits becomes considerably lower and is not compensated by the state fee foreseen for the revision of the design conditions. The situation reflected in the preliminary requirement, where state fees are significantly reduced but there is no additional revenue from other resources, including the state budget, means that the municipality is unable to perform the tasks assigned to it by law. It is problematic to transfer to an interested party obligations for the construction of infrastructure intended for public use in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Administrative Cooperation Act. The reason why municipalities enter into such administrative contracts is that, alternatively, it is possible for the municipality to build the infrastructure itself or not to establish a detailed plan and not to grant construction and permits. The latter, however, leads to the absence of development and construction activities on the territory of the municipality. However, it is not possible to build infrastructure for the municipality's own resources, as there is no money left. In essence, the draft legislation contains a repetition of the existing regulation, with the fact that the existing regulation is not legally correct or economically sustainable. An example is the failure to build the current mass infrastructure across the country. In addition, the Planning Act provides a single risk point for the logic that the developer pays only for the planning of his own site. If the municipality wants to plan a larger area, it must pay for the planning of the rest of the area itself. At the same time, there is already quite a constant criticism that only plot planning is being made, but it would be right to plan for larger areas, which is very right in terms of planning. On the other hand, this logic is also correct, because why should the developer pay for planning a larger area? The reality is, however, that the municipality does not have the resources to pay for the difference itself, if for any reason it is necessary to increase the planning area. In practice, it will be just as it is at the moment when the infrastructure is being built, that the developer will either wait for the local government to have the opportunity to build it, and, in most cases, it will be unreal, or it will still agree to cover the costs itself. This leads to the above idea that the state fee should be more covered by the activities of local authorities. It can be said that during the period of enforcement of the law, the workload of local authorities will increase considerably, as new concepts need to be introduced, new procedures developed and implemented, etc. In summing up, it can be said positively that quite a number of proposals from interested organisations and associated organisations were taken into account as changes during the procedure. We wanted the best, actually, but a lot of it turned out the way it always does. The bottlenecks will certainly bring out the practice, and in a few years' time we will be back here discussing legislative changes, but this bill could probably go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U156	Thank you very much. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U157	Ladies and gentlemen, A long time ago, when the Minister of Justice was Rein Lang, the command table was written that the building law, all the laws and planning law relating to construction, must be codified into a single comprehensive law that reduces bureaucracy and brings out all concepts simply, clearly and unambiguously. That goal was very true. Unfortunately, this was not fully achieved. The impact and scope of the planning law is very high. It is one of the most effective laws of all and its effects last for a very long time. The comparison is that the building we are now in and its surroundings are planned hundreds of years ago. Our network of roads, infrastructure, is also several hundred years old. Perhaps the decisions that are made under the law of planning will last a great many knees after us. The previous speaker pointed out the volume of work that local governments and rural governments have to face since the adoption of this law. It involves huge re-skilling, re-skilling not only the officials, but all the people who do the planning. Therefore, I cannot agree in any way with Kalev Kallo's final words that there are no mistakes here, but very soon they can be repaired again. The planning law is one of the laws that should be amended as little as possible and only when strictly necessary, precisely because any change in this law will bring about very significant changes for people working under this law and in the investment and economic climate of Estonia at all. Almost all professional associations have protested against this law, including all professional associations with a direct link to the planning law. At the same time, I must admit that the officials of the Ministry of Justice have done a good job. They have examined a number of proposals and produced one- or two-phrased answers to them. Well, considering the length of time, that's good. At the same time, however, there has been no parliamentary debate on most of these issues. I bring out a significant response, which was also mentioned by the previous speaker. On our proposal that planning should normally cover a larger area, the Ministry of Justice replied that the proposal was very correct and should be so, but they do not offer a new wording. Nor did the Commission. In fact, during the discussions on the amendments, it was already clear which provisions were flawed, but even though they were recognised, they did not go any further. It's a big law, maybe. Very many sections of this law list things that can be done. The question arises as if it is not possible under the current law. Yeah, it could be. However, the changes are in some respects unjustified. For example, the new law says that planning may involve individuals who are directly affected by the plan. The current law states that in any case the affected persons must be involved and the remaining persons may be involved. If you're wondering what the difference is from a normal person's point of view here, it's remarkable. In one case, you will be involved if this plan concerns you, and in the other case, the local government may involve you if it decides that it could be that way. Or another just as remarkable point. Under the current law, a new house can also be built between other houses if the nature of the building and the volume of the building are more or less the same as the buildings around. The exact same wording is in the new law, but this point has been called one of the main victories of this new law. Perhaps the new law calls its greatest victory the point that exists in the current law in exactly the same wording. Also, rational land use and all such things are largely present in the current law. Let me specifically mention one question that was discussed in at least two of the meetings of the Committee on Economic Affairs. We have a law on heritage conservation which regulates in great detail how a building or a house can be placed under protection as an object of national importance, how to involve the owner of the building, how groups of experts are gathering, which must justify the protection of the building, how relief is done in defence mode, and how to behave when the owner of a house under heritage protection wishes to make any additions or conversions. All of this is very detailed so that private interests and public interests are balanced in terms of the protection of the building. Of course, this regulation can also be improved. However, the Planning Act allows local authorities to protect individual objects, individual buildings and also larger areas, but neither the text nor the explanatory memorandum of the Act contains any words that should be taken into account when imposing significant ownership restrictions, taking into account the interests of the owner and the need for his protection, or what rights the owner will retain through the plan after being granted protection. Even the provision concerning the granting of protection does not mention in any word whether there could be any additions or whether such a very strict ownership restriction would be imposed at all. It remains a question of whether such regulation is against the Constitution at all. If this is not against the Constitution, why do we need such detailed other national regulations in the case of protection? I am not saying whether protection is good or bad, in some cases it is certainly justified in the public interest. However, this very different approach is completely incomprehensible. Surely people and businesses that are going to be protected will also have quite a few questions. Problems with terms and lack of explanation I've already pointed out. To conclude, the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft planning law and to find solutions to the problems that have arisen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U158	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U159	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have followed with great interest the debate on the previous and this bill and the proposals put forward by both the Social Democratic Party and the IRL. Then I began to wonder what those people who are following this debate and who are reading these speeches, questions and opinions should understand all of this. I think it's like an election campaign. There's so little time until the election. Both the Social Democratic Party and the IRL would very much like to show that all the wise proposals that have come from local governments, from all kinds of associations and institutions are really being dealt with and are being made better. To tell you the truth, I don't believe that in their few or three weeks these things can be made better. But let him be, let's do politics. The Riigikogu hall is for politics. Everyone's facial and behavioral features are visible from here. The Socialists like to have a say in the process, explain and make very wise suggestions, but when it comes to doing, there are often no players. But the IRL is also taking advantage of its opposition and trying to bow down both to and to this side. In fact, during this year and a half it was possible to make good and even better proposals. It must be remembered that it is pre-election time. If these drafts had been discussed six months ago, for example, this discussion would certainly not have been so lively. Although, really, I want to emphasise this, it is, as Liisa-Ly said, very serious laws, really serious laws, because according to them, the living environment is sometimes put in place for hundreds of years, perhaps even longer. Therefore, they should be taken very carefully. Let's do it! But I believe these laws will still be passed by this Riigikogu. Power and good luck to us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U160	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U161	Since my name was named...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U162	It's not a procedural question, it's a rejoinder.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U163	I'm sorry, I have a line! As my name was mentioned, I say that I do not know of any other draft on which IRL would have tabled so many amendments. That accusation wasn't quite correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U164	Negotiation is over, no more requests. Let us examine the amendments. Amendments 1 to 5 have been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the commission has taken full account of them. Amendment 6 has been tabled by Mart Meri, member of the Riigikogu, the commission has taken full account of it. Amendments 7 to 28 are from the Committee on Economic Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Number 29 is from the Centre Party Group; the proposal of the lead committee is not to be taken into account; proposal 29 is not to be voted on. The numbers 30.36 are again from the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Number 37 is from the Centre Party Group; the proposal of the commission is essentially to be taken into account. Number 38 is from the Economic Commission; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Number 39 is from the Centre Party Group; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account; proposal No 39 is not to be voted on. Number 40 is from the Economic Commission; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. We have received a proposal from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to interrupt the second reading of the draft. We have to vote through this. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to interrupt the second reading of the draft planning law 571. Please take a stand and vote. 21 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 36 votes against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U165	Agenda item 5 is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Law on Explosives initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present a speech chair by Kalev Kallemetsa, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U166	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a draft law amending the Law on Explosives, which transposes the European Union Directive. The Economic Commission received one amendment within the deadline, which provided for a single paragraph not to repeat the reference to the name of the directive. There was no substantive change in the draft law, and the Commission decided by consensus to support this proposal. Proposals were made for the draft to be placed on the agenda for today, for the second reading to be closed and for the second reading to be sent to third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U167	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Kalev Kallemets. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. One amendment to the draft has been received. Let's go through it. The amendment has been received from the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the proposal of the commission is fully taken into account. The amendment has been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 805. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U168	Our sixth item today is the first reading of the draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Minister of Social Protection Helmen Küti!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U169	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to bring before you the first reading of the draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act 808. The draft introduces technical changes and increases legal clarity by making the third part of the old-age pension more understandable, the so-called "insurance unit" mechanism. According to the law, the amount of the insurance unit is equal to the sum of the annual coefficients of the insured persons multiplied by the annual price. The annual coefficient shall be calculated by dividing the share of the national pension insurance for the social security contribution paid for the pension security by the share of the national average social security contribution for the corresponding year. Generally speaking, the annual coefficient indicates how much a person has contributed to the pension system compared to the average person who received the salary. All annual coefficients of the person shall be added to the sum of the annual coefficients. In practice, however, many people understand, unfortunately, the time to work under the term "annual coefficient," which may be referred to as the beginning of the word "year." The replacement of the term "annual coefficient" by the new term "insurance unit" should make it more clear that it is a pension insurance component, i.e. a financial component, the amount of which is calculated on the basis of the amount of the national pension insurance component of the social tax. So, the claim that I'm working for one year, but I'm getting a letter of 0.3 years, isn't true. Each year is written as a year, and even when working for a minimum wage, the year is written as a year. This change of words is made in the interests of clarity. This should avoid misunderstandings that in order to receive a letter from the Social Insurance Board for a year, work should be like three years. This is the fundamental change that will be made to this draft. For the sake of clarity, a technical amendment will also be made and the terms of the two other parts of the old-age pension will be changed in order to correct the terms: the old-age unit is called the "age share' and the current insurance unit is called the "insurance part'. I will explain to those who are not familiar with the pension components the formula for calculating the pension. The pension consists of a basic component plus the sum of the number of years of retirement and the annual price of pension entitlement plus the product of the sum of the annual coefficients and the annual price, i.e. the insurance unit. Each year, the base and the annual grade are indexed. The topics concerning pensions and their size or minimum wage and average salary are important and will certainly be discussed in the next Riigikogu, but today's draft law will correct the terms and increase legal clarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U170	Thank you very much. We're going to the questions. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U171	Thank you. Madam Minister! I understand that this is such a small change of term, a cosmetic change. Don't you think we should fundamentally change something in the pension index? I do not understand why we should change this term now, because I do not believe that any person thinks that he has to live to receive a pension of 150 by literally using the term "three to one." It's just a symbolic expression. But the different size of pensions creates stratification, in a few years they will be even more different. We fear that, in the near future, pensions will still be very, very different from the average wage. Moreover, those people who receive from the minimum wage to the average salary should start working one year should then be equal to one year of pension, which you referred to as the insurance unit in the new term.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U172	Thank you very much for the question. In fact, unfortunately, the press and all kinds of performances also use this expression, and people really have such an understanding. You, too, have probably heard from the meetings that a person works for one year, but you get 0.3 years for that, so it's like you have to work for three years to get one share. I think that the issue of pensions must be very clear and discussed; it must be done in a statesmanly manner. That is why, in cooperation with Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and the Ministry of Social Affairs, a very thorough analysis was carried out this year, which will be introduced to the new Riigikogu. I hope that everyone in this Chamber will be members of the new Riigikogu and you will be a part of it. The only question is, who's going to introduce it here? The retirement age must certainly be viewed in a civilised manner, as the pension age will change in 2026 according to the law adopted in 2010, then people will be retiring from the age of 65. The question is that if the minimum wage is low, the result is that in the future the pension will also be low. These issues are certainly complex. I am very pleased that, while I have been able to be Minister for Social Protection, this analysis has been carried out for a little over six months. This will certainly provide the basis for the next government and Riigikogu. The Association of Pensioner Associations, Andres Ergma, the Collaborative Assembly, the Trade Unions, have all expressed a desire to discuss and contribute to this issue. Today, a legislative amendment has been introduced here precisely for the sake of clarity, so that the law can be better understood. The term "annual coefficient" may give the impression that it really means years because it contains the word "year."
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U173	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U174	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you the same thing again. I have the impression from meetings with people that the pension year is still directly linked to the financial category. That's the way to figure it out on the spot. But shouldn't we change that pension formula? There'll be stratification, because if you're on a small salary, you'll have a very small pension in the future. For example, a music school teacher's salary is equivalent to only one third of the annual pension index. That's the question. We should check it out. Obviously, we should also look at the base. The question is actually that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U175	Thank you again. In part, the answer was already in your question. The fact that a small minimum wage leads to a small pension is true. There is a cause to be dealt with, not a consequence, and there is also a need to raise the minimum wage. Minister Marko Pomerants came to the Riigikogu in his time to increase the base. These are questions of the Riigikogu and the state budget. We need to be aware of the current state of payout of pensions and of the state budget. These are the topics of the next discussions. Estonia is one of those countries where, when a person receives a pension, he or she does not lose his or her salary and the amount of the pension does not change as a result of his or her work. It is possible to receive both salary and pension at the same time. Many thanks to the older ones who work because we have less and less hands! The minimum wage should also be raised and made more dignified. I find it very difficult for a person who receives a minimum wage, whose wages are deducted from taxes and who raises children. I am not saying that pensions are large, on the contrary, but I can say for sure that pensions will rise 5.9% from 1 April and that there will also be an increase in the income tax-free portion, i.e. 374 euros, which is the Estonian average pension, is exempt from income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U176	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U177	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm glad you stressed that low wages should be tax-free. This is also one of our party's election promises. This idea is very correct and the right decision is also to rename the annual coefficient. But where did the term "pension insurance unit" come from? How has social tax suddenly become insurance?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U178	Thank you very much for this question. As usual, a good child has several names. There was also a number of discussions about the name. The answer could be that the word "insurance unit" is therefore better because we are dealing with a state pension insurance law and the insurance unit expresses the ratio of the person's social tax pension insurance to the national average social tax pension insurance component. It's complicated, but it's an exact expression. We can find him another, even nicer name, because this is the first reading of the bill. But right now we have been based precisely on the fact that the law that we are dealing with is the State Pension Insurance Act, which is why we are talking about the share of insurance.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U179	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U180	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, good minister! If you, Helir-Valdor and I go campaigning in front of retired voters, and the people ask us, what did the pensioner get better because of changing that term, what do you say?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U181	Thank you for a very good question. I'm sure you, me and Helir will meet at a lot of events, because we're all running in Viljandi and Järvamaa. But I will reply by saying that this bill will make the situation clearer for those people who are still working and are going to receive a pension someday later. It is becoming clearer that neither politicians nor anyone else can claim to have to work for three years in order to have one share. I also say that on 1 April, pensions will rise 5.9% and they will certainly continue to rise in Estonia, as can be seen from forecasts for the coming years. I am also saying that the minimum rate free of income tax will also be reviewed in connection with the increase in pensions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U182	Please, Aivar Chef, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U183	Thank you. Thank you for your answer to the first question. I will now ask you about the method of calculating the pension fund. We're talking about average pay. No one really understands where the average salary comes from. It's around a thousand euros all the time. Couldn't this draft have made such a small table correction that the statutory minimum wage for full-time work could still give one unit and then the following calculations should be made? I'm not talking about the numbers back there. It's psychologically important to people. You were talking about the name of the annual coefficient before. Now people start taking it the other way around, you see, I'm still getting 0.3. How is it that the law is one, but in fact everything is different?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U184	Thank you for your question. We could multiply this times 0.3 for example, I don't know, ten. Then the person who works for the minimum wage gets a coefficient of one, but the one who works for the average salary gets three times as much. Would it so comfort the recipient of the minimum wage? Then we kind of, like, how I say, manipulate people. There wouldn't be any change, there would be no change in accounting, we wouldn't change the principles. This draft simply creates legal clarity in terms of terms. If the principles are changed, it can also be decided that all people who retire in Estonia will receive a pension of the same size. Is that fair? After all, there are people who have not worked at all and there are those who have worked for 15 years. Is that fair to those who have worked, I don't know, for the average salary? At present, the system is such that there is a second pillar in which a person collects money and there is a basic element that is guaranteed for everyone. There is a national pension for those who do not have a total of 15 years of work. I can give you some examples that characterize this subject and also give the MPs a good picture of it. For example, a 63-year-old man must apply for an old-age pension in 2015. He worked for the minimum wage from 1990 until the end of 2014. He did not work before 1999, he has 15 years of retirement and is now entitled to an old-age pension. His pension according to this formula is 157 euros 25 cents. Another example: In 2015, a 63-year-old man who worked for an average salary from 1999 to the end of 2014 and who did not work before 1999 must also apply for an old-age pension. These people are equal in terms of service, but they got the average wage in the country. His pension is 209 euros. It doesn't matter if it's not triple. The third example is that in 2015, a 63-year-old man will still have to make a pension. He too has 15 years of retirement and did not work before 1999. But he's been working for five times the average salary. He shall be assigned a coefficient of 5 according to the insurance unit (this shall not mean five years but shall be a coefficient). His pension is still EUR 475 for the same 15 years. These were simply examples of what kind of pension men, aged 63, who have exactly the same status but who have received a different salary. My heart hurts because of a man who's had to work 15 years for a minimum wage and had to live with that money for 15 years, maybe raised children and grandchildren. The one who's got an average salary has gotten to live a little better, and the one who's got a five-fold average wage has got, I'm saying, almost five times better to live. But pensions aren't that different. On 19 February 2004, Marko Pomerants came to the Riigikogu with a bill to propose an increase in the basic amount of the pension and an increase in the annual grade. Let me talk to you about this example. Indeed, someone who has 15 years of service but who has worked for a minimum wage receives a pension of EUR 157. Anyone who also has 15 years' experience but who has received an average salary has a pension of just over 200 euros. The difference is 50 euros. We know the number of pensioners in Estonia, we know the state of the state budget, and we already know how much we pay for pensions from other sources of the state budget. If the Riigikogu thinks so, we should take a decision. As Minister for Social Protection, in the short time that I have been given, I am not thinking about life expectancy, but about working time as Minister, I had the opportunity to at least correct the terms. I highly respect all previous social ministers, many of whom are also in this hall: Tiiu Aro, Eiki Nestor, Siiri Oviir, Marko Pomerants, Jaak Aab, Maret Maripuu, Hanno Pevkur and Taavi Kõivas. All of them were, in fact, very dignified ministers. However, since that law entered into force and entered into force in 1999, there have been no changes other than the fact that Marko Pomerants provided for a further increase in the base. So this is a topic that we need to discuss and do it very statesmanly, not just talk about it in the pre-election debate. I considered whether to come here with this bill at all, because in the pre-election period it is very easy to give speeches from the Riigikogu speaker and give examples of how the government does not help or respect pensioners. This is wrong, pensions are rising and the income tax-free share is increasing. This has been done by previous governments, and I think that the next governments will also do so in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U185	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U186	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. You said that the calculation would be clearer. But I'm asking if anyone will suffer from this new calculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U187	Thank you very much and for your strength!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U188	Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U189	I was not finished with the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U190	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U191	Will the pension fund's cost remain the same, EUR 380 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U192	In fact, the annual deficit is EUR 411762000; it is a state of play. No one will suffer, as I said at the beginning, that bill will correct the terms and increase legal clarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U193	No further questions. Thank you, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U194	I would like to ask Rein Aidma, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Office, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U195	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on this draft law took place in the Committee on Social Affairs on Monday 15 December. The Minister made a presentation, and Kristiina Räälk, Head of Pension Policy of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, also took part in answering questions. Since these same questions were also asked in this Chamber, there were more questions here, I will go straight to the procedural decisions. First of all, the proposal to put the draft law on the plenary agenda was adopted, i.e. by 14 January today, and it was proposed to close the first reading. We have a proposal to set the deadline for tabling amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 21 January, and the Commission appointed a speaker here. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U196	Thank you very much. Marika Tuus-Song, unfortunately you can't ask any more, the two questions are for the previous... Do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U197	Got it. I will give you the floor again. Peep Understood, question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U198	I wanted to... I have a speech from the floor. [[Interjection from the floor: He wants to speak on behalf of the group, but from his seat.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U199	Thank you, President-in-Office. Luckily, I only have one question to ask. I'm asking you, Rein, the same question as the Minister. What, then, will you say when you meet pensioners, what will this bill improve in their lives?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U200	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U201	Thank you for your question. He does not really improve the financial situation because this bill does not change the amount of pension paid out of the pension fund. However, as the Minister repeatedly replied, he clarifies the basic concept used in the calculation of the pension. The misleading "annual coefficient" in force so far is replaced by the term "insurance unit." In terms of content, the draft, yes, is bureaucratic, but still makes it clearer. That's the point of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U202	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! In fact, it can be said that it is a matter of terms and of changing them. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U203	Thank you. Any more questions! No more questions for the waitress. Please, Eiki Nestor, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U204	Thank you for your question. Yeah, that's right, the point is legal clarity. That's the point of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U205	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I hope I can make it without extra time, but just in case, I can get a little carried away, please! May the soil be easy for Endel Eero, I tell you, friends! This law, which we are changing today, was passed here 17 years ago. The Riigikogu discussed this in 1998 and it was adopted in May. But as it turns out, it's difficult to understand. Very politely, very few people understand it. It creates misconceptions and also allows populist politics. In fact, one term is now simply given the right name in the sense of law, which is the right thing to do. In Germany, this name is a retirement point, in England, too, a retirement point, let us have an insurance unit. Another thing that every member of the Riigikogu needs to know in case he goes before pensioners. When our pension pension is calculated, it consists of two parts. One is equal to all, the same size, regardless of how many years a person worked, 15, 16 or 45 years, or how much salary he received. Once, when this system was created, it was a third of the average pension. The second part depends on the person's contribution, i.e. the years worked and salary. If we compare the minimum wage and the average wage, we will see that the difference is three times the difference, but the difference between pensions is two times the difference due to this equal share. If we want to make the system even more solidarity, it could be a debate place. There's been an idea. I'm asking if the Centre Party comes up with drafts, he'll explain two things to the people that I don't understand with my own mind. You have proposed that, in essence, all people whose wages ranged from the minimum wage to the average salary should receive the same pension. I don't understand why those who got a higher salary are going to get a higher pension. It's like a bill for the protection of high-paid people. Its content goes opposite to what you want to say. If your idea is that everyone who has received the same pension from the minimum wage to the average salary, please also answer the question why higher-wage earners would receive a higher pension. The second and a little more complicated story is with the financial side. Censor Kokka is not here now, but I will tell him that this is insurance, it is pension insurance and it is financially sustainable when the incoming and outgoing money is in balance for a long time. For example, if you raise the pensions of all people who have received the minimum wage up to the average wage by making them the same size, the question arises as to how much you should pay for them to the pension fund. Is it on average pay? Maybe a person gets a minimum wage, but the part of the social tax pension insurance is like the average salary. Then this thing is financially balanced and all factories in Estonia are closed. I have met people in the Centre Party who know what the Estonian pension system is. I'd be very pleased if you could make time to talk to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U206	Thank you. Please, Mrs Tuus-Laul, speaking from the group.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U207	I very much like the name that is currently being used in Germany, the 'pension point'. That would be a very nice and popular word. In my opinion, the "retirement year" is just as symbolic, and that would be the name. But the pension insurance unit gets meaninglessly complicated, we shouldn't do that. I would reiterate that the "retirement year" was not meant as a term, but as a popular word, which is simply a word. But the Minister boasted here, as if there were a big pension rise when the pensions in the spring rose by 5.9%. I think that if all previous years have seen less pension increases than the index has foreseen, and one year the pensions were frozen, there is no point in showing off. I recall Eiki Nestor's famous sentence that the government is not raising pensions, as the Minister has said today, but the index is increasing pensions because there is a definite index according to which pensions will change. Secondly, the Minister says in the newspapers that if the minimum wage goes up well, in four years the pension will rise to EUR 560. This is certainly wrong, because we know that pensions are indexed and cannot be increased in this way. This does not increase the pension for current pensioners, it increases the pension for current young people who raise more money in their insurance stock, which may increase the second pillar pension. However, there is no point in fooling current pensioners by raising the minimum wage, then pensions will also rise in four years. That's what I was gonna say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U208	Thank you. You asked a rhetorical question because there is no answer here right now. But I'll ask if the minister wants to say anything in closing. No, I don't. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 808 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 21 January.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U209	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a presentation from the Minister of Health and Labour, Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U210	Mr President, thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to present you with the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, which will develop a solution for ensuring social guarantees for freelance artists and other persons with irregular incomes or persons working under several debt-law contracts, if they have been subject to social tax. The need for an amendment has also been pointed out by the Chancellor of Justice in his memo to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Riigikogu by the proposal to bring the provisions of the Health Insurance Act governing work under a debt-law contract into line with the Constitution. The draft has been drawn up taking into account the data from the employment register that applied since 1 July 2014, according to which 50% of employers whose employees work under a debt-law contract failed to declare and pay social tax at the minimum rate to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board. However, at least the minimum rate laid down for each month is a prerequisite for obtaining insurance cover. The draft amends the definition of the member of the management and control body of the legal person and the insured person receiving employment and service charges under a debt-law contract. The insured person is the person for whom the social security contribution is paid in one month, calculated on the monthly rate established by the state budget for at least a financial year. The beginning and suspension of insurance cover will be related to the submission of a social tax tax return to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, with social security contributions having to be declared on behalf of the person in one month at least up to the minimum social tax liability. As a result of the declaration of tax data, insurance coverage is very flexible. The acquisition of insurance cover is no longer linked to the maturity of the debt-law contract. Depending on the time when the member of the management and control body or the debt law contract was concluded and on the payments made on the basis thereof, the time limit for the commencement of insurance cover may be between 11 days and two months. The person's insurance cover stops the day after the deadline for the non-declaration of social security contributions to the extent of the minimum obligation. The suspension provision shall not apply where the person is entitled to temporary incapacity benefit. The suspended insurance cover will continue after receiving the data declared by the Estonian Tax and Customs Board. The amendment concerns all members of the management and control body and persons working under a debt-law contract, including creators, for whom social tax is paid at least to the extent of the minimum obligation to pay social tax. According to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, there are only 60 persons benefiting from several debt-law contracts each month on average. As of November 2014, according to the employment register, the persons working under debt-law contracts who were entitled to insurance cover were 10343 and the members of the management and control body of the legal person were 15030. According to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, the creation of a new X-Road service takes 3 to 5 months and leads to expenses of EUR 35000. In order to receive data automatically and to establish and suspend health insurance, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund must carry out development work in its systems, the cost of which has been estimated by the Health Insurance Fund at approximately 100000 euros and the duration of the operation is 6 to 7 months. In addition, the draft provides for the possibility that persons working on a project basis, including as creators, will be covered by a contract with the sickness insurance fund. Under the contract, persons treated as an insured person pay insurance premiums to the sickness insurance fund as recipients of the average salary. Last year the amount was 123 euros per month, the quarterly payment was 369 euros and the annual payment was 1476 euros. The amount of the insurance contribution will change every year after Statistics Estonia has published the average gross monthly wage of Estonia in the previous calendar year. The condition for obtaining insurance cover is that the person has paid at least a minimum amount of social tax on his or her earnings in the preceding calendar year. It is estimated that this change could affect around 4000 people on irregular incomes. The draft repeals the provisions governing the right of the sickness insurance benefit to be recovered from a person who has not complied with the minimum obligation to pay social security contributions. If the bill becomes a law, it is within the competence of the Tax and Customs Board to recover tax arrears, therefore the right of recovery of the sickness fund is no longer necessary. The amendment to the Health Insurance Act, which regulates the conclusion of a contract with the Health Insurance Fund, is intended to enter into force in general, while the other amendments are intended to enter into force on 1 January 2016. The date of entry into force has been set taking into account the time taken to ensure IT solutions. To sum up, this is a draft which makes the situation of people with irregular incomes more stable, because they are guaranteed health insurance and the possibility of medical assistance because they have been paid social security contributions. Honourable Riigikogu, please stop reading the bill first!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U211	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Urmas Kruuse. I would like to ask for a co-presentation of the Chair's Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U212	Honourable Riigikogu! The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government at its meeting on 15 December 2014. The draft was presented by Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Health and Labour. The explanations were provided by Ülle Jordan, head of the health department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Helen Tralla, head of the legal department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The originator answered questions about the existence and suspension of insurance cover. Insurance cover arises by entering health insurance in the database. The Health Insurance Fund shall make the entry on the day following receipt of the information from the Tax and Customs Board. The deadline for submitting a social tax return is the tenth day of the month following the tax period. Insurance cover stops on the day following the non-declaration of social tax to the extent of the minimum social tax liability, according to the information received from the Tax and Customs Board. In answer to the question of whether it would be possible to sum up contracts of employment and debt law contracts, it was said that this was the plan, that there were differences between the insurance cover for the contract of employment and those working under the debt contract, and that their compatibility needed to be analysed. The principle is supported, according to the Ministry of Social Affairs. There was also a request for sickness benefit in the case of aggregated insurance cover. It was answered that the benefit was paid on a general basis on the basis of the incapacity for work sheet. Now I'm talking about decisions. The Commission unanimously decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 14 January 2015 and to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 21 January. The president of the Social Affairs Committee, Heljo Pikhof, was appointed rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U213	Good waitress, thank you very much. There are no questions. It is now the way, good colleagues, as we do at first reading, that anyone who wishes to speak as representatives of the group in the negotiations. This follows from § 98 of the Home and Working Procedures Act and, since the Minister of Justice is also present here, I say precisely that paragraph 5. The floor of the Riigikogu can be held for five minutes and, if desired, three minutes can be extended. The floor can also be spoken out. But then you can only speak for up to two minutes. Only the representatives of the political groups can take part in the negotiations, as is customary. If an extra-group Member wishes to perform, he must receive a mandate from a member of the Riigikogu who is a member of the leadership of the political group. After negotiations, the President shall close the negotiations. If, during the negotiations, there is no proposal to reject the draft, I shall set a deadline for the submission of amendments. I am asking if there are any representatives of the political groups who wish to negotiate. Since I know it is, let me take the chairman's break for three minutes, and then we'll move on to the hearing. Break three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U214	Good fellows, thank you. The chairman's recess is over. I open negotiations, we discuss draft 818. I ask Laine Randjärve, representative of the Reform Party Group of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U215	Thank you so much for this opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, A bill on health insurance 818 could be said to be a long-made beauty. The reason for these long-term discussions is not so much political as technical. The Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with professional associations and other social partners, started negotiations on the aggregation of the incomes of artists years ago. In 2011, a working group was also established, consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Culture, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the Estonian Cultural Chamber and the Estonian Theatre Association. The main issue was the provision of health insurance for freelance artists. The Ministry of Culture had submitted a proposal for the aggregation of social tax to the relevant ministries. The need was obvious because there are a number of creative people and people in several other fields who receive sufficient income during the year, which also pays minimum taxes, but nevertheless have not yet had health insurance. After several years of activity in 2013, the working group was still saddened to note that the databases of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and the Estonian Tax and Customs Board were not compatible and the data transmitted by the Estonian Tax and Customs Board did not show on which type of insurance the person could receive health insurance under the Health Insurance Act. Fortunately, the e-revolution has gained strength, and now this problem of unfair treatment is about to be resolved. It is also contrary to the Constitution that any freelance creative person who works in different cultural institutions but not necessarily in full-time everywhere must necessarily register as self-employed in order to obtain social guarantees. This bill also solves the unequal treatment of artists and people working in other areas on a project basis, thanks to the fact that, fortunately, the technological capacity of databases has increased and that, in the end, politicians can make a political decision on this issue. The draft will also be implemented by the Government of the Republic in 2014. The objective set out in the 2003 Action Programme is to develop a solution to ensure social security for freelance creators and other irregular incomes paid for by social tax or for those employed by several employers. This is described in section 2 of the Coalition's Action Plan on Culture. To sum it up. The purpose of the draft law is to introduce a new version of the Health Insurance Act in accordance with the Constitution, whether the person has one or more debt-law contracts or is a member of the management or control body of one or more legal persons, as well as to comply with the programme of action of the Government of the Republic. The Bill amends § 22 of the Act by providing persons with irregular incomes, in particular creators and persons working on a project basis, with the possibility of obtaining insurance by signing a contract. In providing insurance cover, social security contributions paid in advance to sickness insurance funds are taken into account. This is a very good bill. The Reform Party Group supports this and calls on all other groups to do the same. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U216	Thank you for that long speech. We've heard it now. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading must be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting the 818 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 21 January. The first reading has been completed and the seventh item has also been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U217	Let's keep going. The first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Prosecutor's Office and the Law on the Courts initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask the Minister of Justice, Andres Anvelt, for the Riigikogu's Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U218	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Ministry of Justice has completed and the Government of the Republic has forwarded to you a draft law amending the Prosecutor's Office Act and the Law on Courts. This draft appears to be relatively technical in the initial review, but its substantive aim is to improve the quality of the state's prosecution and to simplify the possibilities for prosecutors and judges to share know-how outside the prosecutor's office and the judicial system. In order to improve the quality of national prosecutions and ensure that the difference between the education requirements of prosecutors and those of other prosecutors is eliminated. Given the professional role of prosecutors in the management of pre-trial criminal proceedings and in the representation of state prosecutions in court, different educational requirements are no longer justified today. The draft requires that in future aids must also have a nationally recognised master's degree or equivalent qualification. The modification of the educational requirements does not affect persons already in office as Assistant Prosecutors who can continue to act as Assistant Prosecutors under the current conditions. The draft also amends the title of the Assistant Prosecutor and replaces it with the title of the Assistant Prosecutor, which is essentially more in line with the competence of the Prosecutor. Within 10 years, when the concept of assistant prosecutor has been used, it has become clear that "aid to the prosecutor's office is confusing and does not correspond to the actual competence of the prosecutor. The title "aid to the prosecutor" refers linguistically to the fact that it is not an independent prosecutor, but merely an assistant to the prosecutor. In reality, however, the assistant prosecutor has the competence of an independent state prosecutor; he is also a prosecutor. The proposal extends and simplifies the possibility for prosecutors to share their know-how outside the prosecutor's office. To this end, it provides for the possibility of transferring the prosecutor to the service of the Supreme Court without a competition. Under the current rules, the prosecutor may be transferred to a post in the composition of the Public Prosecutor's Office or the Ministry of Justice. The law also clarifies and simplifies the rules governing the transfer of a judge or the appointment of a judge as the Prosecutor General in the State. The Courts Act deletes the time limit under which a judge may be transferred to the Supreme Court or the Ministry of Justice for a specified period of up to three years. It is also foreseen that no competition will be organised for the transfer. The aim of the amendment of the regulation on the transfer of prosecutors and judges is to simplify and clarify the procedures in force and to improve the motivation for officials to share their know-how outside their existing posts. The draft was originally intended to enter into force as a law. a from 1 February, since the entry into force rule makes it possible to set a specific date for the appointment of Assistant Prosecutors. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U219	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. Please speak to the Riigikogu... I'm sorry! Please ask questions a little faster! Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U220	Excuse me, Mr President. Mr. Minister! How has the cooperation with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Public Prosecutor been working on the preparation of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U221	Thank you for your question. Cooperation with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office is daily, both in preparation for this draft and in dealing with day-to-day business. If you specify what you mean specifically with your next question, I can also answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U222	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U223	Thank you. I will specify so much that this bill deals directly with the day-to-day organisation of the prosecutor's office. Have there been so-called stronger negotiations on any subject, either this or that? Has this process been smooth and has there been a happy consensus, or have there been places where possible differences had to be overcome? I'm just asking about the smoothness of the process.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U224	Thank you. Let's just say that the Ministry of Justice and its area of government are acting in the spirit of constant negotiation in order to set their goals. We need to take into account the tasks of government, including those imposed on the prosecutor's office by law, as well as the financial opportunities arising from the state budget. Certainly, the introduction of the status of assistant prosecutors in this bill is one example that we look to the future. Even now, as a result of this same law, the prosecutor's office has started to 'fertilise' the idea of a possible future restructuring within itself. Why? We know that the number of tasks assigned to the prosecutor's office is very high, while quite a few places are vacant. The introduction of the same assistant prosecutor's status and the reduction of educational differences are a clear direction that the position of assistant prosecutors in careers will be a stepping stone in becoming a full-time prosecutor. This law is a good example of how the prosecutor's office does not fully exist outside the other national system, but it allows prosecutors to go to the Ministry of Justice, for example, or also to the Supreme Court to convey their skills in the same way, in other words collecting information to improve the work of the Ministry as a policy-maker. Better communication is needed between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the courts that enforce the law. I think the same law gives it, let's say, even greater force for synergy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U225	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I ask Valdo Randpere, member of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair, for a presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U226	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, who are not very many! But let's keep doing our job, I think everyone in their rooms is looking forward to this bill, which is no way world-revolutional, but it is interesting in terms of the subject that the Minister has touched here that we call prosecutors assistant prosecutors. In fact, the Riigikogu made the exact opposite move in 2004 when the assistant prosecutors were appointed as assistant prosecutors. It was done for exactly the opposite reason, because then it seemed that the assistant prosecutor was somehow a bad name. But these days, people have said many times that they don't want to talk to the DA, so maybe we could talk to the real prosecutor. There's been a slight shift in time and linguistics, and now we're changing things back, which shows that we're dynamic and able to learn. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 8 December, attended by Igor Gräzin, Jüri Morozov, Kalle Jents, Kalle Laanet, Mikhail Korb, Valdo Randpere, Linnar Liivamägi, who is an advisor, Raini Laide, who is an advisor, and the chairman of the committee Neeme Suur. There was no Ken-Mart Vaher, Marko Pomerants and Peter Võsa. Invited were Mr Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice, his advisor Kristen Kanarik, Heili Sepp, Head of the Department of Penal Law and Procedure, Markus Kärner, Adviser to the same department, and Monika Tappo, Adviser to the Public Law Service of the Legal Policy Department. The Minister of Justice presented to the Commission the objectives and content of the draft law amending the Law on the Prosecutor's Office and the Law on the Courts. The draft provides, as the Minister has already said here, to eliminate differences in the quality of the state's prosecution and in the education requirements of the prosecutors above. As I said, the name "Administrative Assistant" will be abolished at all; instead, the name "Administrative Prosecutor" will be used. The draft provides that the prosecutor may subsequently be appointed by a person who has obtained at least a nationally recognised master's degree or a corresponding qualification or a corresponding foreign qualification in the field of study. In any case, legal education is needed. At present, education may have actually been in any field, as long as it is in higher education. The draft also changes the title of the prosecutor's assistance. The draft extends and simplifies the possibilities for prosecutors to share their know-how outside the prosecutor's office. The Minister spoke quite clearly about this, too. After a brief discussion, the Commission decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 14 January, i.e. today (this was a consensual decision), to propose that the first reading be closed (also a consensual decision) and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 20 January. This was also a consensual decision, as is usual in the Committee on Legal Affairs, and we are unanimous. Once again, Valdo Randpere was unanimously appointed rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U227	Thank you very much. There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 802 amendments. 20 January 2010 at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the eighth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U228	Let's move on. The ninth item is the Government of the Republic's overview of the stability subsidies granted by the European Stability Mechanism and the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the European Stability Mechanism. I would like to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Finance Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U229	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! When ratifying the Treaty establishing the ESM, the Riigikogu laid down the task of reporting on ESM's activities once a year. In the second year of the ESM, there was not much to hear from him, which is good, because it shows that there is no serious crisis that needs to be tackled. The ESM achieved full employment capacity in April last year when the founding members' final contributions to the paid-up capital were received. A total of 80 billion euros, of which Estonia accounts for 148.8 million euros. ESM has a maximum operational capacity of EUR 500 billion. The paid-up capital shall not be used to finance support programmes. This is the guarantee for the issuance of ESM debt instruments in different forms. A high share of paid-up capital, also in comparison with other financial institutions, and top-class ratings from Fitch and Moody's on both short and long-term bonds, have promised to receive very favourable funding from the markets to cover the financial needs of ESM support programmes. In 2014, the ESM provided financial stability support to Cyprus. Cyprus' broad-based support loan programme includes a number of measures: recapitalisation of banks, organisation of public finance and organisation of structural reforms. In 2014, EUR 1.1 billion was disbursed to Cyprus. Of the proposed EUR 9 billion, 5,7 billion have been used up. The programme will end in March 2016. Regular monitoring of compliance with the programme's conditions also continued. During the year, three review reports were approved, together with the accompanying technical amendments to the Memorandum, of which the Commission has been informed and of which the Commission is aware. The restructuring of the financial sector took place in Cyprus in a satisfactory manner and managed to restructure public finances. A more serious challenge was the reduction of private sector debt. The reform of the legal framework allowing for the forced sale of loan-backed immovable property has been hampered. However, the Cypriot Government is making an effort to fulfil its commitment in the adaptation programme. Spain exited the active customer's role in 2013 and started repayment of the grant loan received for the recapitalisation of the banks last year. EUR 1.6 billion was repaid. The monitoring reports following the European Commission's programme show that Spain has successfully used the grant loan to make restructuring efforts in the economy. In view of these two programmes, the ESM has a free resource of EUR 451.3 billion. The Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs was involved in the preparation and approval of ESM decisions. ELAK received regular reviews of the implementation of the programmes. The procedure for changes to the programmes in the Committee on European Union Affairs has been constructive. Last year, the Riigikogu gave its mandate to expand the ESM toolbox with a means of direct recapitalisation of banks. The ESM governing bodies approved the instrument on 8 December. This is the last set of safeguards to ensure the implementation of the Banking Union. Real use of the instrument is not on the agenda. What is expected in 2015? Lithuania will also soon become an ESM shareholder as a member of the euro area. Lithuania's accession will result in a decrease in our relative participation from 0.1855% to 0.1847%. In nominal terms, our participation will not change. The implementation of the Cyprus programme will continue with the accompanying monitoring. The ESM safety net set up for the euro area is an important part of the safeguard of financial stability and has justified expectations. Portugal and Ireland successfully exited the programme, Spain was given the necessary breathing space to restore the economy, the Cyprus programme is progressing and Greece is also experiencing positive developments. The ESM, as well as the EFSF, grant loans enabled countries to make significant savings in debt service costs compared to the theoretical funding from the market. In 2013, ESM generated a profit of EUR 253 million, which was transferred to the Reserve Fund. I believe that the results for 2014 will also provide an opportunity to increase reserves. The ESM itself is developing, has improved risk management and has put in place an early warning system to prevent possible repayment difficulties. In anticipation of another peaceful ESM year, I hope that good cooperation on ESM issues will continue in the future. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U230	Minister, thank you. At least there's one question. Kadri Simson, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U231	Thank you. Minister of Finance! You mentioned in your report that when you talk about the ESM, you can say that there have been positive developments in Greece. Next Sunday, Greece will have extraordinary parliamentary elections. Can you tell me to what extent they can affect Greece's fate as an ESM programme country?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U232	Thank you for your question. I'll make it clear. Greece is not an ESM programme country; it is under the EFSF programme. As far as the Greek elections are concerned, there is a clear risk that Greece may have problems once the results of the elections are known. However, I would like to remind you that Greece has not been allocated the full amount at the moment, and the latter part has not yet been allocated. Its separation will certainly also depend on the results of the elections and on what the new government will do. I believe that, despite the great speculations and Syriza's promises that they will so-called deny the programme and extinguish the debt, it will not happen, however, because the Greek people are very interested in staying in the euro zone and in the benefits of being a member of the European Union. However, it may create certain tensions in financial markets. Greece's economic situation has improved considerably, with positive growth likely achieved last year. The budget is in a small primary surplus, which means that they cannot cope solely with the servicing of their debt. So it is as if Greece has potential, but it is not yet able to borrow money from the markets and to remain in this economic position in the long term, especially if the government decides to abandon existing programmes or declares that it will not pay back the debt. I recall that Greece's debt repayments will start in 2023. So even if Syriga irresponsibly announces that she will not repay the debt, it may happen that a new election will soon come and the new government will reverse this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U233	Thank you. Each member of the Riigikogu has an oral question within this item. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U234	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! I also ask about Greece. Germany has publicly acknowledged that Greece is probably leaving the European Union. If Greece leaves the European Union, it will probably also leave the eurozone. Will the other Member States have to make additional capital contributions when Greece leaves?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U235	Thanks for asking. As far as I am concerned, Germany has not formally expressed the opinion that Greece is leaving the euro zone or, all the more so, the European Union. It's probably speculation from certain analysts. I believe Greece will not leave. As I said, the will of the Greek people to stay in the euro zone is very great. Of course, one hundred percent can never be sure of things, especially when left-wing extremists are in power. Greece's departure from the euro area would certainly cause problems for all countries in a certain sense, especially if debt write-offs were decided. But like I said, I don't think that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U236	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U237	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, That's the kind of thing I wanted to ask. Should we not also report on the EFSF, as the present report and the ESM annual report do not appear to contain EFSF data? The biggest risks, at least on the basis of current knowledge, relate to Greece, and the liabilities associated with Greece are in the EFSF. It'd be nice to know. After all, the EFSF has also committed itself; it will repay these loans from some funds, while the Greek repayments will only start in ten years' time. It would also be good to see the economic activity of the EFSF. Shouldn't such a report be made?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U238	Thanks for asking. The Riigikogu has no obligation to present such a report.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U239	Minister, thank you. There are no further questions about this review. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No, I don't. In the framework of this item, we will not take a decision in the Riigikogu after the end of the debate. The ninth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U240	Let's move on. The tenth item on the agenda is the first reading of draft Act 819 on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation by tax on income and capital, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. It is a great honour for me to give the floor to the Minister of Finance Maris Lauri, who is already in the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U241	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Members of the Riigikogu! A double taxation agreement was concluded between Estonia and Luxembourg in 2006. It is necessary to amend the existing agreement in order to bring the exchange of information into line with the international standard. Several other articles of the Treaty have also been amended. One of the most important changes is that contractual investment funds are also treated as residents. Investment funds referred to in the Protocol to the Agreement, or hereinafter agreed bilaterally, may apply for the Agreement on the basis of a certificate of residence. An obligation to exchange information was included in the agreement even if the State itself does not need the tax information requested. The exchange of information is not limited to the taxes mentioned in the contract. The State may not refuse to provide information on the grounds that the holder of the information is a credit institution or a representative of a person. The contract was supplemented by an arbitration clause. If the competent authorities, usually tax authorities, are unable to resolve the person's complaint within two years and there is no pre-trial dispute body or court ruling in the tax case, the person shall have the right to request the matter to be referred to the arbitration panel. The agreement with Luxembourg follows the direction of Estonia's tax treaty policy to leave tax rights as wide as possible to the State of residence of the recipient of the income. Under the new agreement, income tax cannot be withheld on dividends of a non-resident holding more than 10%, and in other cases the source country will be able to retain 10% of income tax. In order to avoid double taxation, Estonia uses the exemption or netting method depending on the type of income. If an Estonian resident receives income or has assets that have been taxed in Luxembourg, Estonia will exempt it from income tax. In the case of dividends, Estonia uses a netting method to avoid double taxation. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U242	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no questions. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Finance Committee, Peeter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U243	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Act 819 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion by means of tax on income and capital was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs at its meeting on 15 December last year. Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the draft as the initiator's representative. The aim of the draft is to ratify an agreement that encourages investment between the countries of the Contracting Parties, eliminates possible double taxation and creates additional opportunities to prevent tax fraud. So, the questions and issues that were discussed in the Commission. There was an interest in whether Estonia also required additional or special conditions in connection with the scandal of the benefits granted to Luxembourg's major corporations. It turned out that the negotiations had been concluded before this topic was discussed. There was another question as to how many similar contracts it was. 56 similar transnational agreements have now entered into force, and we will soon be approaching 60. The taxation of dividends. The withholding tax does not tax a dividend, the recipient of which is a company with a shareholding of at least 10% in the company paying the dividend. In all other cases, the withholding tax shall be capped at 10% of the gross dividend. There is no withholding of income tax on dividends under the Income Tax Act, which is why the agreement does not affect the tax treatment of dividends paid to non-resident residents. The following consensual decisions were taken by the Commission: to put the draft on the agenda by 14 January 2015, to close the first reading and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 28 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U244	Thank you. Good colleagues, now's a chance to ask. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U245	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You said we were getting to 60 contracts. It's quite a lot of numbers, in itself. However, the more bilateral agreements we have with countries, the greater the certainty for businesses to invest in one country or another. How do you feel about yourself, having been in the Riigikogu and in the Committee on Monetary Affairs for many years, whether the pace we have now achieved in dealing with double taxation agreements is sufficient or whether we should give the government a signal to act more intensively to conclude agreements with different countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U246	In general, this pace could be faster. Companies and companies would certainly expect such contracts to enter into force more quickly. However, from the point of view of the government, it is understandable that, for all countries, the delay in negotiations does not depend precisely on our country, but is due to the particularities of the countries. We need bigger deals there.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U247	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No requests, no negotiations. The commission is firmly of the opinion that the first reading must be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 819 amendments. a 28 January at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the tenth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U248	Let's move on to item 11. This is the first reading of draft law 795 on creditors and intermediaries initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Finance Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U249	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Members of the Riigikogu! One of the objectives of the government action programme is to bring the activities of high-speed credit companies under tighter control to protect consumers and to limit their irresponsible lending, including the introduction of a licence requirement. This draft will put non-bank creditors under the supervision of the Financial Supervision Authority. In the future, an undertaking granting or providing credit to consumers must be authorised by the Financial Supervision Authority. A licence is not required if the loan is issued only to legal persons, such lenders do not go under the supervision of the Financial Supervision Authority. Giving credit to consumers is lending money to a private person, as well as offering a deferred payment or leasing. The broad scope of application can be justified by the fact that there is no difference to the consumer as to the form in which he receives the credit, whether in the form of a normal loan, a deferred payment or a lease. In any event, it is a financial commitment. In practice, there are a number of cases where the consumer who bought a post-paid product has not been able to meet payment obligations at a later stage and has taken on a new fast loan. This may lead to a debt spiral, which is extremely difficult to exit. Consumers are generally unaware that the follow-up is also a financial obligation. In particular, the application for authorisation does not extend to leasing undertakings belonging to the same group as the bank. The reason is that the bank already holds a license from the Financial Supervision Authority and is therefore subject to consolidated supervision. The bank shall ensure that the lessor, who is part of a group of banks, complies with the requirements laid down by law when granting loans. Supervision is not applied to companies providing loans in the public interest and on more favourable terms, such as KredEx. The obligation to apply for a licence does not apply to savings and loan cooperatives. When the Financial Supervision Authority starts to grant authorisation, it controls a number of aspects, including the competence of the managers and the background of the owners, the organisational structure of the company and the rules of procedure applicable to the granting of credit. It is necessary for the managers of the company to have an outstanding reputation. Drivers must ensure that employees' knowledge, skills and experience comply with the requirements laid down by law. Compared to ordinary companies, lenders have a higher capital requirement, in this case EUR 50000. The consumer's requirements for the issue of credit are laid down in the Law of Obligations Act. The new requirements will be laid down for the assessment of the consumer's solvency, such as the information to be collected from the consumer. A credit file shall be drawn up for the consumer, bringing together all data on the consumer credit relationship. Later, the creditor must be able to prove to the Financial Supervision Authority that the decision granting the credit was justified. In case of error, the Financial Supervision Authority can sanction the loan company. An obligation is introduced to submit regular reports to the Financial Supervision Authority. The reports shall provide an overview of the credit volumes issued or mediated, which are currently not accurately reported under non-regulated market conditions. In addition, in the framework of supervision, the Financial Supervision Authority must be informed of any changes in relation to the documents submitted when applying for a licence, which may have a significant impact on the activities of the loan company. Such changes include, for example, the change of manager or auditor. Creditors and credit intermediaries must pay supervisory fees to the Financial Supervision Authority. The draft will enter into force as a general rule. Loan companies already operating have to comply with the requirements by 21 March 2016. An adequate transitional period is necessary to make changes, and this is also the reason why this law should be adopted quickly in the Riigikogu. After the law has been passed, however, the responsibility for borrowing remains with the person, the person must always be able to understand whether he or she needs a loan and whether he or she can serve it later. If a person is in default, the Financial Supervision Authority will not come to the aid of payment of the debt. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U250	Minister, there is at least one question for you. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U251	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It's very nice that this bill is pending. It's long awaited. My question to you is this. Is the financial rate established sufficient? If you say yes, it is enough, then I wonder where and where it really comes from, EUR 50000, why there is no other amount here. Has this been the result of analyses and negotiations, or for some third reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U252	The capital requirement of EUR 50000 is due to the following considerations: In general, companies in the financial sector are subject to higher capital requirements, aimed at increasing the credibility of the financial institution. It ensures that the financial service provider is sustainable and capable of fulfilling its obligations. It also ensures responsibility for the preservation of the client's assets. For example, the minimum capital requirement is EUR 5 million for banks, EUR 125000 for investment fund managers. In Estonia, the lowest capital requirement in the financial sector is EUR 50000 under special laws applicable to paying agencies and e-money institutions. These institutions do not involve funds from investors but provide payment services, so this capital requirement is set up to control the ability of the market operator to organise and protect the rights of consumers; it must be able to meet these obligations. This is the consideration on the basis of which the capital requirement of EUR 50000 has been imposed on creditors who are neither banks nor deposits.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U253	Minister, there are more questions for you. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U254	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It's a long and thorough document we have on the tables today. We will try to process this during the working hours of the Riigikogu. Is what we have on the desks today a version that could eventually go out of here as a law, or do you already have any information you want to add to us as the initiator of the bill on behalf of the ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U255	Thanks for asking. I have no idea that this bill should be changed. In my opinion, this is a'ready bill'.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U256	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U257	Thank you. I generally go back to being alone with my question. I have a very specific question. In the context of this draft law, how is there a mechanism for the creation of licence fees?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U258	Authorisation fees depend on a number of factors. This remuneration consists of two components: a capital share and a share in volume. This will cover the costs related to the activities and supervision of the Financial Supervision Authority. The capital share is more constant, the volume depends on the volume of consumption loans issued by creditors, i.e. the more they are issued, the larger the volume. In the case of credit intermediaries, this depends on the volume of consumer loans mediated, while larger intermediaries also have to pay higher supervisory fees. Such a principled approach is inherent in all supervisory fees of the Financial Supervision Authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U259	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I would like to ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, President of the Finance Committee, Rannar Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U260	Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister has already given a substance review on behalf of the initiator, which is why I will not stop at it for a very long time, but, above all, I will talk about what the procedure for the draft has looked like in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The draft was presented by Mr Maris Lauri, Minister of Finance at the Commission, who, together with ministerial officials, answered questions from members of the Commission. I will present the topics and questions for discussion by subject and, under them, I will present the specific questions and the answers given to them. The first issue was the license. It was asked whether a company wishing to grant a loan to a private person as an ancillary activity or wishing to do so once would also be subject to authorisation. According to the Ministry's reply, the draft concerns only loans to private individuals, while lending to a private person, i.e. the consumer, requires authorisation. It does not regulate the granting of loans to its employees, nor does regulation concern investment. Interest was expressed as to why the granting of loans to legal persons was excluded from the scope of the draft. For example, if one company fails to repay the loan to another, it may, in turn, affect other companies linked to the company that provided the loan and cause them difficulties. According to the Ministry's reply, dealing with legal persons is more a business risk issue and a broader economic issue. Consumer knowledge, can be expected, is rather weaker, it is assumed that managers have financial and economic knowledge. The topic was touched on why the law does not regulate the relationship with KredEx. In response, KredEx provided loans in the public interest, and KredEx loans to private individuals were in the public interest. There was also a question of capital requirements, an interest in what they were derived from. Both the creditor and the credit intermediary must have equity or share capital of at least EUR 50000. This size was determined by analogy with other similar companies operating in the financial sector, which have a similar capital requirement, such as the e-money institution and the paying agency. The credit intermediary is comparable to the paying agency, they are already similar in terms of consumer protection interests, and so their capitalisation is not so important. The aim is not to protect lenders as a whole, but to guide behaviour in lending. The issue of changing the behaviour of lenders and the emergence of possible new so-called "jook schemes" was also addressed. The question was asked about possible changes to the behaviour of the companies subject to the regulation resulting from the draft, including in view of possible new schemes. The Ministry hopes there will be no way to circumvent regulation. We don't know what else you can think of to get out of claims. However, it was acknowledged that it is logical to have such reorganisations where within a group one licensed post-paid agent is created, which provides a service within the group. The assessment of the loan capacity of the applicant was also at issue in the Commission. The draft provides that the lender's internal rules lay down a methodology for assessing and controlling credit capacity. It asked how to determine the financial situation, income and other financial liabilities, whether requests were made to the Tax and Customs Board and other credit institutions, etc. According to the reply of the Ministry of Finance, all possibilities and rights, such as the Credit Information Payment Disorder Register, must be used to collect information. Creditors have understood the feasibility of sharing information and are planning a data exchange system. All public and accessible information must be collected and described. If, for example, the lender is a member of the relevant data exchange system, it must use it to assess solvency. There was also an interest in establishing a debt and credit register. According to the Ministry, the interested companies are themselves in the process of creating it, involving several banks, larger creditors, as well as Credit Information. However, according to current information, not all banks are interested in registering. In particular, market leaders were mentioned. However, this has been taken into account as there has been a relatively similar practice in other countries. It was also about the interaction between the measures of the so-called fast-loan package. In particular, it was asked whether the relevance and necessity of all measures, i.e. the four drafts pending in the Riigikogu, had been assessed. For example, whether a very significant restriction on advertising is necessary if other measures ensure credit rating and credit rating. The Minister noted that the synergies were worth discussing, but considered the measures of this draft act to be the most important. It was pointed out that the measure limiting advertising in question is justified by the fact that intense advertising is of excessive interest and tempts the so-called fast-track loan to be granted and received. The drafts, which provide for different measures, are planned to enter into force at different times. For example, the advertising law should enter into force on 1 March and, until other measures are implemented, it should be expected to withdraw excessive and reckless lending. The reporting of creditors and credit intermediaries was also concerned, i.e. what information is required of them. In cooperation with the Financial Supervision Authority, a precise reporting scheme is still being developed, aimed primarily at obtaining information on loan volumes. No customer-by-customer information is provided, the reports are quarterly and are submitted to the Financial Supervision Authority. It must also be possible to determine the amount of the supervisory fee on the basis of the information received. The question was asked about how the supervisory fee would be set. According to the Ministry, in the same way as in the case of banks so far, the fees are fixed by the Finance Minister's Regulation on a proposal from the Financial Supervision Authority Board. When proposing supervisory fees for banks, the Financial Supervision Authority has been guided by supervisory costs. So the proposal is to create this 'cost-based'. The last issue was the issue of credit rating and responsible lending, how the draft rule out lending to persons who are clearly unable to repay the loan. For example, persons with deep disabilities have also received large loans. According to the Ministry, the draft requires the provision of procedures that should exclude lending in such cases. If the loan has been granted without complying with the rules, the Financial Supervision Authority will take responsibility of the lender. Interest was expressed that the draft ministerial regulation annexed to the draft does not yet show the rate of guarantee of the loan or the maximum rate of the loan payment ratio. Interested in what these figures are going to be. For example, Eesti Pank is planning minimum self-financing requirements for credit institutions and the ratio of maximum income to loan amount. According to the Ministry's reply, the draft provides for the principles of responsible lending. The measures of Eesti Pank refer only to real estate loans issued by credit institutions. These limits for consumer loans are the subject of discussion, but the requirements and thresholds could rather be the same. A draft regulation is still being developed. While the customer already has real estate loans, all liabilities should be taken into account when assessing the loan capacity of consumer loans. If real estate loans are already covered and consumption loans are also wanted, in practice lenders have protected themselves with additional debt-law measures. For example, loan agreements contain a ban on taking other loans across certain borders, the obligation to notify additional loans, as well as the obligation for borrowers to report loss of employment or any other fact affecting their financial situation. As you have heard, the debate was quite long and thorough, but the decisions were taken in a consensual manner and were as follows: make proposals to stop reading first and set the deadline for submitting amendments at 10 working days, i.e. 28 January at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U261	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Now I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union Group, Sven Sesteri! Please prepare for the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group at Neeme Suur. Please, Mr. Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U262	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who are still in this Chamber of the Riigikogu! In fact, the handling of this draft is an important milestone. As you have heard from the previous report, there was a lively debate in the Commission on this subject. Surprisingly, so few members of the Riigikogu are present today. However, I wanted to talk about consumer credit in general and the situation where we are now. In particular, just a year ago, in October 2013, a joint meeting of the four Commissions took place on the initiative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, attended by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs. We asked for this joint meeting of representatives of different ministries, as well as people from Eesti Pank, the Banking Association, the Consumer Protection Board and several other institutions. It was a public parliamentary hearing on this subject. It could be said that in October 2013, for the first time, we actually provided input so that we should move on to this issue. Why were so many different ministries involved? The reason was that so far the problems of fast-track loans and consumer loans were constantly between the so-called two chairs, i.e. different ministries had different laws and there was no coordinating unit that would have brought these things together. At that point, we identified the potential implications of different ministries for consumer credit issues, which came out interestingly. I would like to give you an example that, in the field of work of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, there are basically two laws which, to a greater or lesser extent, are concerned with this issue: the Law on Advertising and the Law on Consumer Protection. In the field of work of the Ministry of Finance, the Financial Supervision Act and several laws regulating the financial sector are concerned with this issue: the Law on Credit Institutions, the Law on Paying Agencies and the Law on e-money institutions, as well as the law currently being dealt with. Similarly, the issue concerns the Law of Obligations Act and all laws on debt protection measures, such as the Law on debt restructuring and debt protection, which are part of the work of the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Social Affairs is covered by the Social Welfare Act, which does not directly regulate debt counselling, but it proposes a draft social code that will do so. So many ministries were more or less affected by this issue. After the joint meeting of 15 October 2013, I asked for feedback as Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on how to proceed. The Ministries set up a working group of the same parties involved in this parliamentary hearing. The head of this working group became the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. They came back to the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 27 January at the beginning of last year, a few months later. By this time they had performed an analysis and a first monitoring. The results were sad. The reality was that it was high time to deal with this issue. This market was not regulated at all and the state lacked real information, only assumptions and the consequences could be seen simply from court papers. There was no precise information about how many debtors there were, just general visions. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U263	Yeah, right! Three minutes, two minutes or one minute? Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U264	Following this meeting in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in January, the Head of the Working Group promised that very concrete proposals would come up and that the Commission would also be informed. Last April, a few months later, on 7 April 2014, the Committee on Monetary Affairs had a final overview of the work done. This was a report that was also given to the Government of the Republic. In the light of this report, it can be said that we are indeed on the verge of a great deal of work and that a great deal of work has been done. We have in the proceedings a code of civil procedure which prohibits the resolution of disputes arising from consumer credit agreements in arbitration and sets a cap on the percentage of charge for consumer credit agreements. We are in the process of having an advertising law banning advertising on certain channels and all related to it. We are in the process of a law on debt, which sets a ceiling on the cost of collecting consumers and specifies the regulation of interest on late payment. Today, we are discussing a draft law on creditors and credit intermediaries, which we are actually laying down a licence obligation and basically bringing together all creditors and credit intermediaries under the Financial Supervision Authority. This is, in my view, a very signicant situation, that a whole new situation will take place in one sector of the financial market. I think that the procedure that we are going to have in the coming weeks will ultimately lead us to more manage this market and bring it under clearer regulation. I think only consumers can win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U265	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Neeme Suur! The representatives of the Central Party and the Reform Party Group are also welcome to negotiate freely. Please, Mr. Big!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U266	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U267	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U268	First of all, thank you to the previous rapporteurs, the Minister, the Chairman of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu and the Vice-Chairman for their very brief presentations. I, too, in my group's report, draw attention to the broader context of this draft. Because really, we can't look at it alone, in his lonely beauty, but we also need to see the accompanying drafts and how they are shaping our fast-lending market as a whole. The volume of fast-track loans is increasing, and in recent years, as much as 30% per year. A quarter of all consumer loans consist of fast-track loans. These are many times, if not a hundred times more expensive than ordinary loans. As of the beginning of last year, there were 34706 persons in Estonia who have been in trouble with the payment of a fast loan or consumer credit, including one current payment disorder in 19671, and two or more current payment disruptions in 15035 people. It was obvious that the high-speed credit market needed regulation. The legal amendment, which was adopted in 2013, urging good practice, which obliged lenders to monitor the solvency of the borrower more carefully, was clearly not enough. In spring 2014, the coalition of the Social Democrats and Reform Party set itself the goal of resolutely tidying up the rapid credit market. Not that this decision has not been reached without arguing, but there are still views that freedom to conduct a business is something that should not be mistaken, and a person has the right to make his own mistakes. But in the end, when the problems are visible, everyone realizes that usury is not part of the freedom to conduct a business and that a loan trap is not an expression of man's free will. Perhaps, as the law says, the lender should be aware of the borrower's extraordinary need, dependence, inexperience or other circumstances, and not to grant such loans. However, if good practice clearly does not work, the necessary decisions must be taken. The coalition's planned package of measures was effective and complete. The Ministry of Finance was tasked with developing a draft requiring authorisation to be imposed on consumer credit companies and subjecting high-speed credit offices to supervision by the Financial Supervision Authority. This is draft 795, which is currently being discussed in this Chamber and is being dealt with in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Ministry of Justice was obliged to submit a draft for limiting the percentage rate of credit and prohibiting the use of arbitration in the resolution of disputes arising from consumer credit agreements. This is draft 713, which will be dealt with in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Committee on Legal Affairs also presented a draft for the regulation of recovery costs relating to loans, i.e. draft 786. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications was given the task of submitting a draft to restrict consumer credit advertising, which is a draft of 780 pending in the Committee on Economic Affairs. All these drafts are currently in Riigikogu proceedings, discussions take place in committees and plenary sessions of the Riigikogu. Just as my previous speaker, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, expressed his hope, so I, too, hope that they will all be accepted operationally during the working hours of this Riigikogu. In addition, the Ministry of Justice analyses the possibilities for improving the process of debt restructuring of private individuals and the availability of debt counselling services. Everything listed is essential for helping people. Finally, I very much agree with what has been said at the end of the presentation by the Minister of Finance. Right now we are doing everything we can about national regulations, but there is one other thing, and that is improving people's own awareness. This is a long way for all of us to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U269	Thank you. Now the big speeches from the Central and Reform Party! No, I'm not. I got it. I'm closing the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 795 amendments. a 28 January at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 11th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U270	Let's move on to item 12. The first reading of the Act on Insurance Activities initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Finance Maris Lauri! Let it be said to the members of the Riigikogu that there has also been a message that the rapporteur of the Committee on Monetary Affairs is none other than the chairman in person, Rannar Vassiliev. Please, Madam Secretary!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U271	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Members of the Riigikogu! First reading is the draft law on insurance business. The current law was adopted in 2004. The new law was developed for two reasons. The main driver is the EU-wide reform of the insurance sector, the Solvency II project. The draft also transposes two insurance directives. The deadline for transposition is s. March 31st. Another incentive is to remove the shortcomings that have been revealed in the current law over time, I am thinking of the section on licences and insurance mediation or the issues of the insurance company's bankruptcy. These are issues where the change was based on national needs. I will now give an overview of the new law and the underlying Solvency II. The Insurance Activities Act is a classic financial sector law and regulates the establishment and cross-border operation of an insurance undertaking, the owners of an insurance undertaking, management, capital requirements, cessation, supervision and liability. The new prudential system for insurers is based on three pillars and is already similar to that in the banking sector. The first pillar introduces new qualitative prudential requirements for insurers. The second pillar aims to highlight the importance of the insurance undertaking's risk management and internal assessment of capital needs and to enhance supervisory activity. The third pillar ensures that both financial supervision and the public receive all necessary information about the undertaking's activities. The objective of the Act is that the insurance company established in Estonia is solvent, sustainable, well-managed and transparent in its activities. The supervision measures taken will help to protect the interests of the customer. The principles for calculating the capital requirement of insurers, the requirements for own funds and the governance rules will be strengthened. Increased monitoring of the volume of reports to be submitted and of the information to be disclosed. An economic risk-based approach shall be adopted when determining the capital requirement of an insurance undertaking. This means that all risks to which the insurer is exposed in its business are also included in the capital charge. Supplementary requirements will also apply to insurance intermediaries. The regulation of insurance mediation is a comprehensive chapter in the draft. Changes shall be made in accordance with the objective of ensuring that insurance intermediaries are loyal to the interests of the customer and professionally engaged in their activities. It is also important that, where necessary, supervision has sufficient possibilities to intervene. What is the readiness of the insurance market to implement the new requirements? Estonian insurers are preparing to implement the new law. On the basis of the stress tests that have been carried out so far, it can be assumed that some insurers may face an increase in capital requirements. However, if we look at the general situation, Estonian insurers are already sufficiently capitalised. Market participants need to make some IT developments and recruit and train staff. There is sufficient time between the adoption and entry into force of the Act for development activities. According to our understanding, the law would enter into force on 1 January 2016 and in part the law would enter into force on 1 January 2016. a on 1 April. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U272	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. I now ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, President of the Finance Committee, Rannar Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U273	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. In return, I will give everyone here an overview of the progress of the debate on the draft law on insurance business in the Commission. We have discussed this issue in two meetings of the Commission. The first of these took place on 16 December. At the time, Minister of Finance Maris Lauri gave an overview of the objectives of the draft and answered questions from members of the Commission. Firstly, there was an interest in insurance mediation. The current law no longer meets the needs of the insurance market and supervision on a number of issues. The problems that were of interest were possible conflicts of interest, confusion with the aim of mediated roles and activities, possibilities for monitoring intervention. It was asked how the amount of commission, i.e. the fact that one company could be charged a higher fee than the other, the reliability of brokers and how this would affect the protection of the client's interests. The originator's representative explained that this issue had been discussed with the Competition Authority and the Financial Supervision Authority. There's been an analysis of brokers' fees. The pattern, such as the amount of commission, would have a direct impact on the sale of the insurance product, has not been drawn. There is therefore no need to introduce a fee regulation. Interest was expressed on how to mitigate conflicts of interest in mediation. The broker has a duty to act in the interests of the client, has a duty of loyalty to the client. The broker is obliged to publish the amount of commission, which is also the case in the current law. For example, the motivation package must not motivate the policyholder in a harmful direction. The members of the committee pointed out that the draft is voluminous and that there is not enough time to process it in the Riigikogu. The draft coordination table shows that a number of comments and proposals have been made on the draft. The question was whether there were issues in which no common language was found with stakeholders. The representative of the Ministry admitted that the comments were numerous, but most of the disagreements have been resolved. Mediation issues are the most problematic. Following the discussion, the members of the Commission had to submit a proposal to listen to stakeholders in the Commission. On 13 January, or yesterday, a meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was held in which the interest groups were involved: the Estonian Insurance Association, the Estonian Insurance Broker Association, the Estonian Liising Associations and the Estonian Tourism Association. Representatives of the Financial Supervision Authority and the Ministry of Finance were also invited to participate. The following issues were identified by the parties. First of all, according to the Estonian Association of Leising Associations, the draft clearly favours insurance companies and does not favour the activities of insurance brokers. They consider that the restriction allowing an insurance broker to pass on the activities covered by the insurance mediation only to another registered insurance broker hampers disproportionately the ability of leasing agents to offer insurance solutions to their clients in cooperation with brokers. For example, if a leasing company acts as an agent, it can identify the insurance interest and enter into a contract if it represents a broker, the insurance interest cannot be established. The Estonian Tourist Association considers that the requirement to publish a commission is neither meaningful nor justified in the area of travel insurance. The obligation to publish applies when the contracts of several insurers are brokered. By way of derogation, the commission does not have to be published when the contracts of a single insurer are offered. The Estonian Tourist Association considers that this will lead to a situation in which tour operators will offer the product of one insurer instead of publishing the amount of the commission, or at least the legislator has created a presumption or motivation to do so. According to the Estonian Insurance Broker Association, the most important objective of the Insurance Activities Act is to protect policyholders. Estonian policyholders like to compare insurance products and use insurance broker services. Over 50% of non-life insurance contracts are concluded through insurance brokers. The regulation of the activities of an insurance broker must be similar to the regulation of the activities of an insurance undertaking, so as not to restrict free competition and the availability of insurance services in relation to risks against which Estonian insurers do not offer insurance or offer it at significantly higher prices. Brokers do not consider the principle that an insurer may pass on all its core business, but insurance brokers are prohibited from passing on any part of their activities. For example, an insurer may use the assistance of a specialised cooperation partner to inspect the vehicle, but the broker may not. An insurance broker and an insurance agent should be subject to similar regulatory requirements. Regulation should not tilt the company into choosing which form of insurance mediation it chooses. The Estonian Insurance Association has submitted its comments to the Monetary Commission on 20 pages. At the meeting, their main message was that the adoption of the law should not be rushed, but that its adoption could remain in the next Riigikogu, it would be possible to resolve as many problems as possible during the procedure, which are also referred to in the letter. As a comment by the chairman of the committee, these problematic points can generally be divided into two parts. Some are such legislative sites, or problematic is the way in which the idea is written. It is questionable whether those who have written down what they have written, and those who read it, will understand it in exactly the same way. These are the issues that legislation should address and try to solve problems. Secondly, there are more fundamental questions, of which two issues were the most addressed at the two meetings of the Commission. First, brokers have a duty to rely on customer interests, its regulation, and second, different rules imposed on brokers and agents. In itself, this is understandable in some ways, because the agent does not represent the client, but the broker represents it, which is why these rules are different. This is likely to have led to reasons why, for example, the Association of leasing companies and the Association of Tourist Companies will have to review their current practice of offering insurance products to some extent in the future. This has caused some problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U274	Good waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U275	Sorry, I missed the procedural decisions by passing on the information, which I am sure is extremely important to pass on from this remote to the people who fill this entire hall. In fact, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the first reading of the draft be stopped. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 10 working days, i.e. at 5.15 p.m. on 28 January. The decisions were all consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U276	I have a question. Did the Commission decide to set a deadline for the submission of amendments or did it decide to propose a deadline for the submission of amendments?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U277	Thank you for this question. As the Commission has no competence to decide on the deadline for the amendments and also on the completion of the reading of the draft, these were proposals. Thank you for the question and for the opportunity to clarify it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U278	Thank you very much, my good fellow official, and the chairman of the committee. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading of the draft should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 796 amendments. a 28 January at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 12th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U279	Let's move on to item 13. The first reading of the draft Act 821 on the prevention and resolution of the financial crisis initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Finance Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U280	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law on the prevention and resolution of the financial crisis sets out measures to prevent and address the financial problems of banks, in particular in the light of the experience of the financial crisis that hit the world in 2008. On the basis of the lessons learned from the crisis, a directive was developed in the European Union on which this draft is based. The draft aims to reduce the possibility of using state budget resources to improve the health of banks, i.e. to restore their health. It is explicitly stated that taxpayers' money can only be used if shareholders and creditors have suffered first loss. The draft defines the Financial Supervision Authority as a resolution authority. The Financial Supervision Authority will have greater powers to intervene in the event of problems with the bank. Firstly, the draft provides for preparatory measures in the event of a crisis. Each bank shall be obliged to draw up a recovery plan on a regular basis. In turn, the Financial Supervision Authority must draw up a resolution plan for each bank. The objectives of the plans are to ensure adequate preparedness for an effective resolution of the potential crisis. The Financial Supervision Authority shall be empowered to require the change of the legal or operational entity of the Bank. For example, if investment activity seems to be too risky for a bank, the Financial Supervision Authority may require its separation from ordinary banking. Secondly, measures for early intervention are foreseen for the Financial Supervision Authority. If the bank has not yet become insolvent but there are certain signs of liquidity problems, the Financial Supervision Authority has the right to require the replacement of bank managers and the prohibition of making profits, or to take over the management of the bank, if necessary, or to appoint a temporary special manager to manage the bank. Thirdly, in the event of more serious problems, the Financial Supervision Authority will be given a number of new powers to resolve the crisis situation. In this way, the Financial Supervision Authority will have the right to require the conversion of the bank's liabilities into equity or to write down those liabilities. This means that creditors may lose some or all of their money. For example, if a bank has granted a loan to another bank that encounters problems, the lender bank may lose its money or not recover it in full. Such a decision can be made by the Financial Supervision Authority. Deposits of ordinary depositors shall not be written off; this shall not be done. Similarly, if the bank is not sanctioned but goes bankrupt, ordinary depositors will continue to provide up to EUR 100000 of deposits from the Guarantee Fund. The Financial Supervision Authority can take additional measures to resolve the crisis, for example by separating the good and bad assets of a troubled bank, i.e. creating a "bad bank," or by setting up a temporary bank entity, the bridge bank, with the aim of ensuring that the bank's most important functions, cash withdrawals and payments continue to be carried out. In summary, in resolving the crisis, the Financial Supervision Authority is based on the principle that creditors' losses must not exceed those of credit institutions in bankruptcy proceedings. The Financial Supervision Authority will only take resolution action if the bank's failure in normal circumstances would be even more costly for all parties involved. The fourth area of amendments concerns the resolution sub-fund to be created by the Guarantee Fund. The funds of this fund may be used, where appropriate, to rehabilitate a failing bank, such as guaranteeing the bank's liabilities, lending or acquiring problematic assets. The resolution fund will be paid up by banks each year. From 2016 onwards, the contributions collected by the national resolution fund will be transferred to the European Union's central resolution fund. All banks in the euro area and banks in countries that have voluntarily joined the Banking Union make mandatory payments to the Central Resolution Fund. The law will enter into force in general terms and the banks will have to fully comply with the new requirements by the end of this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U281	Minister, there is one question for you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U282	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Here's the question. Estonia has its own characteristics. 80% of the credit institutions that have taken up our market are those whose parent companies are located in Scandinavian countries. As I understand it, the first violin is also played by the financial inspectorates of these Scandinavian countries. Our banks are well capitalised, but risks may arise in the Swedish market, where the real estate bubble has been going on for a long time. Our risk may be that if Swedish banks encounter difficulties, they will start to take capital out of our banks, for example in the form of group financial support, which instrument is provided for in this law. How does this regulation mitigate our specific risks?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U283	Thank you for your question. However, in the current situation, the supervision of banks operating and registered in Estonia is still in the hands of the Estonian Financial Supervision Authority. Yes, they work very closely with the countries of the owner banks, i.e. the Swedish Financial Supervision Authority and the respective Danish authority. Now this level of cooperation has simply moved up a level; in addition to the Estonian Financial Supervision Authority, the respective organisations of the Banking Association have been involved. Those barriers, which prevent problems from spreading from Sweden to Estonia, are, however, insured. Ownership does not necessarily mean that the problems of the owner are transferred here, because in Estonia they are not branches, but separately capitalised and separate banks fulfilling banking standards.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U284	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U285	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed a draft of 821 at its meeting on 16 December 2014. Mr Maris Lauri, Minister of Finance, presented the draft as the initiator's representative. I will give an overview of the issues and issues that we addressed in the Commission. First of all, if the law is adopted, the Financial Supervision Authority will have the power to resolve the financial crisis and time will be needed to prepare. One topic was how we should deal with this bill in the Riigikogu. The originator's message to us was that this bill was urgent. The originator wishes and requires swift and constructive processing. The text of the directive itself, which we are now transposing, was published last June. There wasn't much time to take over, there are complex structures here. The Ministry of Finance therefore took time to prepare this draft with Eesti Pank, the Financial Supervision Authority and the Ministry of Justice. The members of the Commission were wondering whether the draft provides for a requirement for credit institutions to provide a list of their clients who would not be paid out of their deposits. The answer was that a list should be provided, but the aim of the draft is above all to avoid the emergence of a financial crisis and the list of creditors whose claims may be reduced is only revealed in the course of the financial crisis. The basic idea of regulation is to create a fund that, when a crisis occurs, you know how you should behave. There was a question of how this law should solve the problem of the Guarantee Fund if there is such a situation that it is not known to whom to return the money. The answer was that this is the subject of the Guarantee Fund Act. The new Deposit Guarantee Directive is coming; there may also be regulations in this area. It was a question of whether banks had the right to increase fees and where the amounts came from. This issue related to bank contributions to the fund. The answer was that banks should still do so from their own funds, the link with the client is indirect and the idea is not that they are paid by the taxpayer, but by the bank's client. After all, banks are currently also known to transfer funds from the Guarantee Fund. Now a new pan-European fund is being set up, money is gradually coming together, and the end result should be that, in a crisis situation, there is no need to spend public money. The question was whether the law specified the risks, errors and penalty rates taken by bank managers. The answer was yes, deliberate and deliberate action is punishable, but rather the penalty party is subject to the Credit Institutions Act. The question was whether banks should make contributions to the Guarantee Fund in parallel with payments to the resolution fund, so as not to merge these funds. The answer was that the Guarantee Fund is still for deposits and the resolution fund for the bank crisis. The current regulation addresses problems arising from economic activity. Interest was expressed that if the current domestic regulation and the draft we are dealing with are part of the crisis management mechanism of the European Union, how far other countries are far from transposing the directive. The answer was that indeed, countries have little time left for this. In fact, the work should have been done by 31 December 2014, but work is still ongoing in other countries as well. The whole package consists of a directive, a regulation and a crisis management board set up as a legal entity. So it's a lot of work. The question then was that the Financial Supervision Authority was both the supervisor and the resolution of the crisis. Is it right that the Financial Supervision Authority relaxes supervision and then has to start resolving this crisis? The answer was that the Financial Supervision Authority would still be the first to know when a problem arises and be able to react immediately. Banks may sense the problem, but they may not show it. The following consensual decisions were taken by the Commission: it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda by Wednesday 14 January and that the first reading be closed. The Commission proposed that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 28 January. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-14_U286	Yeah, thank you, too! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No, I don't. The commission has been very determined and has asked to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for tabling 821 amendments. a 28 January at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 13th item is also closed. Dear colleagues, today's session is unfortunately closed. I thank you and wish you every success in our work. Closure of the sitting at 18.19 a.m.
