ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the sixth working week of the first session of the Riigikogu. The referral of drafts and enquiries begins. Please, representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U2	Mr. Vice-Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will initiate two draft laws. Firstly, the draft law amending the Customs Act. The Minister of Finance Sven Sester represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Water Act. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U3	Thank you. Colleague Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We see how for the last month the government coalition has been eagerly searching for sources of cover for the promises they have made in the coalition agreement. The last example is that it was initially planned to increase the fine rates 2 times, but then the Excel table showed that they should be increased 2.5 times. It will probably generate some EUR 2 million in the budget and will then cover these promises. This in itself means that if in the future, a seat beltless ride will cost 500 euros in Estonia, then in Germany it will be 30 euros. We believe that money should be taken from where the money is available. That is why we are asking Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas about the taxation of banks. According to Eesti Pank, commercial banks operating in Estonia earned 2.6 billion euros in profit during the 2000-2013 period. At the same time, only 59 million euros of corporate income tax was paid to the Estonian State on distributed profits, which is slightly less than 2.3% of profits. This situation has been caused by the new corporate tax scheme, which entered into force in 2000, by which only distributed profits are taxed. Most countries tax corporate profits immediately after making profits. A system similar to that of Estonia is used only by Chile from Malta and OECD countries. In Sweden, where the parent banks of Estonia's largest banks are active, the classic corporate income tax applies at a rate of 22%. The new Swedish Minister for Finance, seeing that the banks' profits are still high, wants to introduce a tax on financial activities. In addition, according to the statistics of the European Central Bank, Estonian banks are...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U5	Two minutes, colleague.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U6	... the return on equity among the 27 countries of the European Union is the first. We have four questions for the Prime Minister, which we hope he will answer, and then we can initiate a debate on the taxation of banks' profits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U7	My colleague Hannes Hanso, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U8	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! According to the decision of the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of 11 May, the Committee on Foreign Affairs initiates the draft decision of the Riigikogu to set up the following delegations: the Estonian delegation of the Baltic Assembly, the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Estonian delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has a proposal to appoint the deadline for the submission of amendments to these drafts to the Riigikogu Board on Friday 15 May at 16:00 this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U9	Colleagues Külliiki Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U10	Good manager! Good ambassadors! We will present an inquiry to the Minister for Public Administration about administrative reform. In our opinion, administrative reform is absolutely necessary. The country of Estonia is expensive to hold, and the development of the country has also stopped because of the fact that the reform has not been dared or wanted to be done. It is a concern that the government's current plan states that in the next four years the reform will be pursued by two methods. Firstly, voluntary accession with a deadline for the 2017 local elections, and in some period of x also a forced merger by the government. As the reform is very important, there is an urgent need for information on how the reform is to be prepared. We have questions about the role and procedure of the various ministers and about whether and how the draft legislation is already going to require regionality to be taken into account. As we know, the increase in excise duty and VAT on tourist accommodation also contributes to administrative reform to some extent, but have analyses been carried out? We have other questions. An inquiry is made by Hatter, Adams, Herkel, Talvik, Aru, Lutsepp, Haukanõmm and Ammas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U11	Mr Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U12	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Culture, I have the following to announce. Let's start with two draft decisions. First of all, the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Appointing the members of the National Library of Estonia'. Due to the fact that the term of office of the members has ended and pursuant to § 8 (2) of the Estonian National Library Act, the appointment of the members of the National Library Council is initiated. Due to the end of the term of office of the National Opera Board and pursuant to § 6 (2) (1) of the National Opera Act, a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint the members of the National Opera Board is initiated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U13	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted nine drafts and two inquiries. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently, 87 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 14 are missing. Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The agenda is in front of you. I shall vote on the adoption of this week's agenda. Please vote! There are 83 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, with two abstentions, and no one against. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U14	Let's go to the questions, there's two of them today. The first is an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu, Märt Sults, Aadu Musta, Erki Savisaare, Siret Kotka, Toomas Vitsut, Valeri Korb and Mailis Reps to the Minister of Education and Research about the increase in the pay and workload of teachers. On behalf of the heirs, Mr. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U15	Honourable manager! Colleagues! On April 14, a referral was received. There has been talk of a steady increase in teachers' pay, but at the same time, the attitude in society has always been shaped that teachers are some sort of whining society that wants to get more money all the time, but in fact they are so overpaid that they kill right away. Who's the teacher? The official shall satisfy himself that the teacher is a citizen who meets the nationally established qualification requirements and that his minimum salary shall be EUR 900 from 1 January. Full office is incomprehensible in size. The teacher has been deprived of the opportunity to pursue a career: the career of a junior teacher has disappeared, the position of a teacher, the position of a senior teacher, the career of a method teacher. So who's getting paid? I would like to classify teachers as follows: a teacher with a capital letter, a teacher with a small initial letter, a teacher with a teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's teacher's So, who's gonna get that raise? Who? The organisation of the school of Minister Aaviksoo can be considered as the beginning of a cancer course in the Estonian education system and in the education of Estonian youth. Mr Aaviksoo tried to solve the Estonian education system according to the ideal gas equation; Mr Ossinovski tried to approach the problem philosophically. But education is a classic concept and this system is not changed by one day or by one reform. You can change in kindergarten, at home, anywhere else, but not in upper secondary school. By upper secondary school, a person has already developed. When I was headmaster, Aaviksoo made a joke at the board of directors: "Whoever disobeys will turn the taps off and the money will set things right. " That's right, that's how he went. I'm sure Mr. Ligi will like that joke too. We school leaders complain that we don't have enough money, 900 euros is like a funny amount of money to take it from, laughter came up, and it said no one would deny local governments to pay more. But it was forgotten that the local authorities were not given the means to raise their wages. The teacher's load increased, wages decreased, the number of students in the class increased. Wage decreases because of the increasing intensity of work. Now, if the teachers asked me, as head of school, what to do about this situation, I would recommend that we reboot in Estonia. If they can't do it, I'd love to teach them. That's where our questions come from. Firstly, we want to know when the difference between the resources earmarked for cities and municipalities will be paid to raise the salaries of teachers promised by the state. The second question: 'Why is there a situation where schools have to spend the next year's resources to keep their teachers? The third question: " Do you intend to raise teachers' salaries in the coming years only as a promise, or do you foresee real financial resources? " Question 4: " To what extent do you plan to change the distribution of education provisions for cities and municipalities? Does the new so-called financing model also take into account the different prices at different levels of study and the needs of upper secondary schools? ' The fifth question is that the budget for the next school year will start now, in May 2015. With what confidence should school leaders negotiate with their teachers, and how can they hold on to their teachers so that they do not go anywhere else? Sixthly, we are interested in how the term 'teacher's full office' is defined. The teacher is 365/24/7. What is a full-time job? I don't know. The trailer has a full-time job, but the teacher has students. There are needs and a national curriculum that shows what needs to be clarified. Seventhly, despite the good results of our students in responding to the PISA test, our faculty is ageing. The year before last, one young person who studied physics was admitted to Tallinn University. Now it's a thought break. Please, Mr. Minister of Education, tell me what you think of this thing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U16	Thank you. Please respond to the inquiry by Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U17	Honourable heirs! I will first try to make a few comments on this long introduction. The fact is that the state budget grant guarantees a minimum of EUR 900 per teacher position and 20% has room for differentiation. I recall that it is the state that provides general labour cost support, while the schoolkeeper is already shaping the staff and salary policies, and also takes decisions on the burden he considers reasonable in the school. In the first three months of 2015, the average salary of municipal general education teachers increased to 1063 euros. In Tallinn, this may be the main concern, it ensures that the state budget support for teachers' labour costs is divided into 1169 euros for each teacher's position. It's very nice if local governments can pay their teachers extra wages. At the same time, Tallinn is the only place, or Tallinn and Harjumaa, where the pay of teachers is still below the average. This decision to pay the premium in Tallinn is probably also related to the overall labour market. Moreover, with regard to these comments, the number of pupils in general education schools has fallen by 40% over 15 years, while the number of teachers' positions has remained almost the same. Thus, the number of students per teacher position has decreased from 18.7 to 12.2. There may also be an answer to why nearly half of the teachers do not work full-time. According to the Estonian Education Information System, the average number of contact hours per week for a full-time teacher is 23.6. But now Question No 1: 'When will the resources earmarked for cities and municipalities be paid to increase the salaries of teachers promised by the state? " The answer is that the whole amount is always paid, calculated that this amount is slightly higher in the first quarter. Payments shall be made on a quarterly basis. Then, Question 2: "Why are schools having to spend the next year's resources to keep their teachers? " I don't know if there's a situation like this. I can't take the blame. But I dare say that there is no such situation, it is not just about my knowledge. Question 3: "Do you intend to raise teachers' salaries in the coming years only as a promise, or do you foresee real financial resources? " First of all, I have not made any precise promises about the increase in teachers' wages. I do not know what the exact possibilities for next year's budget will be. But it has never been the case, at least for the ministers with whom I have worked and one of whom is also in this hall, that the salary will be raised only in words. It's still done in action. As Minister of Finance, I have contributed to these actions. The statistics I can send you, I think it's boring and annoying to hear from the remote. Question 4: "To what extent do you plan to change the distribution of education allocations between cities and municipalities? Does the new so-called financing model also take into account the different prices at different levels of study and the needs of upper secondary schools? ' Whether or not this model is changed has not yet been decided. This cannot be ruled out, but in general the regulation is currently open-ended and does not need to be reviewed every year. According to subsections 84 (3) and 42 (4) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, support is provided for the labour costs of teachers, directors and teachers, further training for teachers, directors and lecturers, the acquisition of teaching literature, the provision of school lunches and investments. The grant is student-based and there is no distinction between school levels. When calculating the allowance for teachers' labour costs, the student-based rate shall be multiplied by the municipality-based coefficient. This also allows rural municipalities with fewer students to pay teachers competitive wages, which means that despite the lower number of students, smaller municipalities are still trying to keep their wages at the same level as others. Question 5: 'The budget for the next school year will start in May 2015. With what confidence should school leaders discuss employment contracts for the new year with their teachers? " The answer is still that with the usual great confidence. After all, money is allocated from the state budget on an annual basis, and therefore there is no need to formalise new contracts either in May or September. It's the school's choice if he wants to make a difference. Question 6: "How is the term 'full position as a teacher' defined, and what tasks are included in it? " Full office is not really a legal term; it is a spoken expression. Government Regulation No 125 of 2013 entitled "Working hours of educators' refers to basic school and upper secondary school classroom and subject teacher working hours in such a way that the reduced full-time duration is seven hours a day, i.e. 35 hours a seven-day period. The scope of the teacher's duties is defined in subsection 75 (3) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, which states that the teacher's hours are divided between direct education and other tasks arising from the employment contract, the code of conduct and the rules of organisation of work or those given by the employer. As you know, the teacher is not the only task of giving contact lessons. The teacher's duties are varied, even outside the hour. Teachers are also class leaders, teachers can be mentors, just as members of the Riigikogu can be. The teacher can run cooperation projects. All of this is agreed at school by signing a contract of employment. There is a good intention agreement between school leaders, teachers and the Ministry of Education, point 1 of which says that the specific tasks and remuneration of each teacher are agreed between the director and the teacher, as was said. It is expected that up to 24 lessons per week within the 35-hour working hours of a full-time teacher will be set by the state for the minimum remuneration of a teacher. The seventh question praises the good results of responding to the PISA tests and claims that the teaching staff is ageing. There is, of course, another side of this. The number of teachers has not decreased in itself, but only 56% of teachers work full-time. Leaving school due to the age of teachers, retirement is a move in the same direction as the number of teachers should change. Of course, it is a national concern when the average age of teachers is growing, but it is also not above the level of reasonableness. We can pay so much better salaries for the optimal school network and the number of teachers that the interest of young people in teaching is increasing. Of course, it is not just about money; it is also about the attitude of teachers and the rights of teachers, which I am also prepared to deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U18	Thank you. There are also questions for the Minister. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! There are certainly issues among these seven questions that you have not yet been able to live in enough. It is also understandable to have a rather superficial view of a few questions, but we will be able to discuss these matters in the future. I may be trying to put the question into the language of the former Minister of Finance, making it a little easier. Looking at the allocation of education support to local authorities, which have been in place for a little over a year, it turns out that a lot of municipalities have received much less money than they received under the previous regulation. In particular, local authorities with upper secondary school.. or those with a significant increase in the number of children stand out here. Will you decide to revise this regulation so that everything you have said here, EUR 900 + 20%, will also apply to these schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U20	Thank you. Don't stress every day that I haven't brought myself up to speed on all the questions. On the one hand, it is natural, on the other hand, there is not so much truth here either that I should start answering your questions even longer, because they have a lot of assessments and inaccuracies. The question itself may often be much less there, as you can see when you look at these texts. As far as this regulation is concerned, structural changes have certainly been made that affect municipalities differently. For example, I believe that apart from what has happened with the number of students, one important change is the same treatment of school grades. They used to make a difference. This is a structural shift, which was the aim of the Minister of Education, so that, for example, in lower grades, the funding per student would be relatively better, i.e. the same as the more expensive levels of school. There is nothing wrong with that, although I argued as Minister of Finance on the subject. We still want the school to be closer to the home of younger class students. Centralisation is growing as we move towards upper secondary school.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U21	My colleague Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, As of January last year, the State no longer provides for a minimum premium for the head of class. This has led to a situation where local governments pay it very differently: better in Tallinn and Tartu, but less in smaller places. Does the Ministry have an overview of how the class manager's work is now remunerated in Estonian schools? Would it not be appropriate to restore this minimum premium to the head of class?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U23	Thank you. I do not think that this minimum rate should be restored. Toompea shouldn't lead school life in detail. In wage policy, but in some ways also in teaching methods, schools could have more autonomy and more trust. For example, when comparing Estonian and Finnish schools, one thing that makes us very different is that they trust the school more. Of course, the documents I have just referred to here are that the teacher has 35 hours of work, 24 of which are contact hours, and the remaining time is divided between a wide range of tasks. Classleading is by no means the only one of them. It is still a matter for the headmaster, as well as for the agreement between the headmaster and the teacher, how exactly the salary is differentiated. Classleading is just one part here. We should not dictate every detail of the organisation of work to schools from the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U24	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U25	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. It doesn't really count from the coalition agreement what the teachers' salary increase is supposed to be next year. Maybe you already have some kind of vision to satisfy you? For example, the teacher's salary could rise to 1.2 Estonian average wages during this four year period. The other half of the question is: do you consider it ethical when politicians frighten people that if, for example, we do not abolish VAT benefits or increase the fine rates, then the increase in teachers' salaries will not be there?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U26	Thank you. I think it is highly unethical to deny the relationship between revenue and expenditure in the Riigikogu, both a member of the Riigikogu and a member of the government. It is both unethical and unprofessional to adopt laurels for subsidies and wage increases, and to criticise the agreements concluded in the media on the revenue side of the state budget. But when it comes to wage increases, we don't write the state budget into a coalition agreement. We can refer to electoral promises, which are always only partially fulfilled by each party, because the coalition agreement is a multi-party agreement. This should also be said to reassure voters who are disappointed. But on the subject of teachers' pay, fortunately, the coincidences are such that we can still keep the target of a teacher's salary of 1500 euros in four years' time. Compared to today's slightly more than EUR 1000, it is almost half as much. But nothing can be guaranteed again. In itself, the teacher's salary could be close to the average of a graduate. Political parties have promised that this salary could be 1.2 Estonian average or 1500 euros. But putting together the coalition's financial plan has been very tense and nothing makes sense to shout out until it is written into the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U27	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U28	Thank you to the manager. Good minister! I have an overview of the local governments of my region as a long-standing local government manager, but as a minister, you have undoubtedly an overview of Estonia as a whole. The work of a schoolteacher also depends on how well support staff are maintained. How do you think the work of school psychologists and their remuneration are organised? Do you accept the current situation or are you planning any changes here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U29	Thank you. According to the law, the remuneration of support staff is one of the cost bases of municipalities. Of course, the support staff is important to the teachers. But the government has decided that it will prohibit the use of a wage fund for teachers to cover the costs that the state has not assumed under law. In my opinion, this dispute was already at the time of Minister Aaviksoo. I sat on the other side of the table as Minister of Finance and accepted this solution. That's all I have to say. Surely we would not want to start sharing the same amount again or this fund over a larger number of people.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U30	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U31	Thank you, Honourable Manager. Mr. Minister! You had some misleading statements in your comments. The annual education allowance is, yes, received in schools, but it will continue until November to cover the salary increase. After that, the local authorities must manage themselves, but this money is not planned in the local government's budget base. That was point 1. But here's my question. As Minister of Finance, you should also be very specific about cross product. If in comprehensive school there is a standard of filling in 24 and in upper secondary school 32, what is the basis for a upper secondary school teacher to have a 25% cheaper hour, even though the work is 25% more intensive? Have you thought about equalizing?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U32	Thank you. I'll read in the papers that the number of contact hours is 24 hours and full-time is 35 hours, but then I'll check what number is 32. [[Interjection.]] Oh, we're talking about the number of students! I heard wrong or was distracted. I don't really think that a teacher's job would be such a changing cost that a piece for each teacher, but if your idea was to pay the teacher relatively less for a student in upper secondary schools, I think that's a good enough answer. The goal is for self-governings to organize their school network, keep younger pupils closer to home, and for older classes to cooperate more closely. There is really no other way to achieve financial efficiency and higher wages in our education system. You understand that, I believe, anyone who looks at statistics at all. The burden on teachers is insufficient; their number is, by looking at the ratio between teachers and students, constantly increasing. The number of square meters per student is also very uneven and at times very high. It all costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U33	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Listening to you, it feels like everything's fine, everything's fine, there's enough money, and we have no reason to ask you anything, because everything is actually wonderful. But when you talk to the school leaders of Tallinn, you get the feeling that the picture is completely different. For example, there are no school principals in Tallinn who would say that, yes, the state will allocate sufficient resources and resources to pay for the salary increase, and until the end of the year you can come out nicely. So why do school leaders confuse people and lie to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U35	Thank you. I don't know what the reason for your feelings is in the last stand of the Riigikogu Chamber. I haven't used any word or expression that would allow me to sum up what I said in such a way that everything is wonderful and everything is fine. Everything's legal, everything's done as far as possible, everything's considered. The result can always be considered the other way around, whether everything is perfect. For example, the financing model. It can't be ruled out that we can get a better model. But why Tallinn processes all the time with the Estonian state, I cannot answer that question. The fact that for a long time there has been opposition in the field of education in Tallinn is the reason for school leaders or the city and, in fact, with different ministries is certainly not the result of my person or term of office. It's, I think, a matter of attitude. To prove something that doesn't exist, however, they try downtown instead of Toompea or Tõnismäe. Teachers' salaries have always been paid according to agreements. If you have been told otherwise by an accountant, accountants should argue in another room.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U36	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U37	Dear Jürgen Ligi! In Tallinn, it is known that there is no problem that the classes are half-filled. But you gave a few answers back to your promise that your goal would be to raise the teacher's average salary from EUR 1 000 to EUR 1 500. It is true, then, that the conditions for increasing financial efficiency in education must be followed, and the school network must also be organised. If you promise to raise your salary from EUR 1 000 to EUR 1 500, will this be the case that you, as Minister of Education, negotiate with the Minister of Finance and receive a higher wage fund for teachers next year and the next year, or do you expect you to clean up and make an effective education system so that there are two of the three teachers left, and then you can afford this raise? In order for you to answer more specifically, I ask what expectations you are going to negotiate with the Minister of Finance on the payroll fund for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U38	Thank you. You expect predictions from me, but you can't even rephrase my thoughts exactly. You're telling me I've made some kind of wage promises, but I just said I'm not making any wage promises. I will never give them until the result is achieved. Congratulations to those who have negotiated through the media! I don't keep them through the media.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U39	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U40	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The question concerns education grants, which were asked about here before, but you did not answer it. I'll rephrase the question. The so-called bounty for the current year is allocated by the number of students on 1 January of the previous year. This raises problems in the municipalities and schools where the number of students has increased. If a classful or a number of students are added in September, their bounty will not come from the state, it will have to be paid by the local government until January next year. Are there plans to compensate municipalities for these costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U41	Thank you. It is interesting, of course, that you think that some starting date is absolutely wrong. If we take the same date and assume that the number of students is decreasing, what is it often doing in most municipalities, what would your answer be? Should we go and take the money from the government? It doesn't change the amount of money if you put a zero anywhere. Everyone must take into account that there is a starting point, that they plan their own costs and students, and that if the number is different, the future will also be different. There's no other model. One date is no better than the other. This could be as close to reality as possible and best known.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U42	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U43	Honourable Vice President! Minister, thank you very much. There are still major differences in the tables of local governments and government Excel. You said that the number of students has fallen by 40% recently, but the number of teachers has remained the same. Does this answer have to be read by the school leaders so that 40% of teachers should be gathered in order to pay out this promised salary in the course of organizing the school network?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U44	Thank you. There's nothing to read out of that answer that wasn't there.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U45	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. [[Interjection.]] I'm sorry! Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U46	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. To my colleague Karilaid, you replied that it is the task of the local government to find the salaries of support teachers. Is there money for support teachers in the state upper secondary schools payroll fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U47	We're talking support staff. It has to be checked, but I suppose so, yes. In general, it is the schoolkeeper who has to bear a certain part of the costs. But this is an interesting quiz question. Now you got me, the others didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U48	Thank you. Now there really are no more questions. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate? Colleagues Märt Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U49	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister! Colleagues! Honor and fame for Mr. Ligi's excellent answers! All the questions were left unanswered, because we can read all of this from the State's Official Journal. So something really complicated wasn't there. I mean, the misleading answers were very nice, but if I now tell you about history, your predecessor, Mr Aaviksoo, once said that 30% of teachers need to be fired. That's the order you gave him, you were the Minister of Finance at the time, you told him to save so much money in education. The education system, or the school network, was repaired. It was organised in a very pragmatic way: the teachers were counted, divided in 35 hours, some number was obtained, and the school network began to be organized. There was no need-based discussion, there was no indexation. When the indexation took place, it took place with the help of parents in non-profit institutions and foundations. This money, which the state did not allocate, was collected from parents. It was then collected in public or by some source of cover, which was not quite right, but in the end, the money came to the teachers and they got their wages in their pockets. You said that the teacher's average fee was over EUR 1000. Yes, that was the case with bonuses: teachers were paid extra hours and round classes, and the teacher had the opportunity to serve. However, every salary increase takes away the possibility of earning extra money because the sources of additional money are recorded in the job manual. Teachers think that the worst things are briefings when the director comes to the teachers' room and says that now there is no money for it, for it or for it: 'Dear women and men, now it is the case that we must work and do more to advance our cause. " Teachers do it, but teachers don't do it, teachers don't do it, carers don't do it, carers don't do it. I literally call it genocide against my own people. No one has managed to cope with us, but we can handle ourselves through our very wise leadership. If we do not train our children, make them strong at age or physically, do not help them psychologically, do not help them spiritually, then we do not have a proper society. Families have already been able to break up almost everything: forty-50% of families are divorcing. We're all really cool. I'm not gonna tell you what we're cool about right now. So our future is very, very good: four classes of education, signature skills, one hundred counts and chain of command. Is this an end in a sustainable country in itself? No, it's not. As long as I'm breathing, I'll stand against it. Mr. Secretary, it won't be easy with me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U50	Thank you. Colleagues Mailis Reps, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U51	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. Today we are discussing the round of inquiries with the new Minister for Education and Science. Specifically, I would like to remind you that we are talking about an increase in teachers' pay and the workload. What is our discussion? Let's look back by two Riigikogus. The previous Riigikogu discussed the basic school and upper secondary school law very thoroughly for about three and a half years. If you will allow me to sum up the areas in which the dispute occurred, it can be said that the main discussion was on how to improve teacher status, his social position, increase his rights and opportunities to work better with children and parents. The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act was amended to a very large extent. The aim was to create innovative approaches and new expectations at school and to create a new social position for the school. It could be said that this was not very much implemented, as only a few months went by when it was already decided to renegotiate the basic school and upper secondary school law. Namely, the previous composition of the Riigikogu, under the leadership of the new minister, decided, in principle, to review a number of provisions. In reality, the school people and the entire school community understood very clearly that they were looking for ways to send a message to society about how to raise wages, taking into account very small financial opportunities. I stress once again that this message was meant for society. Everyone working at school understood very well that there was no increase in the payroll fund, and the salary had to be increased from the available money. What did it look like, and what has it done so far? It's very simple. For example, when you conducted a choir that took place after class, or was a class manager or head of a circle, supported secondary studies, were a mentor in some state examination committees, you were a mentor, you were given a small extra fee for one, two, and three things. So, for example, if the minimum wage was 700 euros, your income could indeed be about 1000 euros. As a result of a double wage increase, your income was still 1000 euros, only all your neighbors, relatives and perhaps your spouse or partner found out that your salary was 1000 euros. So, actually, the sum of the sum, with all these major changes, we lost the premium for class management, reviewed a number of other obligations that were still carried out for the extra charge, and called this all-purpose money a payroll fund. The most intrusive of this was the decision of the former minister to abolish the levels of accreditation. Basically, it was possible to pay higher salaries to junior teachers and teachers simply because the pay fund for methodological teachers and senior teachers did not increase. The wages of others increased by that. It was that simple. If we're looking at this conversation that was developed here today, it's basically the same questions. We're gonna raise the teachers' salary again so the money's the same. The difference is perhaps only that, in the previous financial year, another interesting approach was brought into play by the previous minister. He said that the increase in teachers' salaries was not just a matter for the state, but at least a third must be a matter for the local government. So the next time the local government receives a salary of 4%, 5%, 6% or 7% foreseen to raise 20% or 10%, it is perfectly normal, because the rest is the task of the local government. This is a very novel approach, because the iron rule had been in place in the past, that the rise in the pay of teachers is always the responsibility of the state. It was the minister's honor, but also his conscience. It is now said that this is a local government matter, and it is very nicely repacked. It is now called the task of optimising the local school network. More specifically, if you can't pay the teachers enough, it's your fault because you haven't shut down a school or at least let the teachers go. But what does that really mean? There was also a question here today about the last financing model. Why do we want the new minister to examine it? In practice, the third grade and upper secondary school level have suffered. While we can still argue about upper secondary school that it may indeed be the state's view that it is not possible to hold a secondary school at municipal level, because it is simply not possible to hire enough teachers and quality becomes such that people are forced to move to a state secondary school (read between the lines: close their schools), the financing of basic school at third level on the same basis as the first level is now evil. I'll tell those of you who don't yet know that in the third grade of primary school, starting at 5/6. From class 1, a number of teachers need to be added in order to provide a good and high-quality education. If the third degree in comprehensive school is weak or stays open, then access to the upper secondary school and beyond to the university is quite narrow. This means that we leave young people a lot less choice. It is therefore imperative to see how we actually finance this near-home school. Step three is currently underfunded. As far as high school is concerned, I guess these debates are in front of us. I hope that these can take place in our Committee on Culture, perhaps in some of the keys in this big hall. However, if the previous and previous Riigikogu decided that state secondary schools are not the only choice, but that municipal secondary schools can be a successful alternative, then the financing model that worked in the last year and a half has not allowed for this alternative. In reality, a local government that is unable to put almost a third of the money into upper secondary school cannot offer proper quality in upper secondary school and is forced to either go on the way to state secondary school or simply close its upper secondary school responsibly. Therefore, I propose to go to this topic very soon, whether the Riigikogu is ready to change this financing model or whether it is decided to go along with this decision and it is said that the activities of the municipal secondary school in this form have ended. Those were my thoughts when I thought about these questions. I quite firmly believe that this is not the last time we can talk about funding education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U52	Thank you. Colleague Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U53	Mr President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I guess here in the Riigikogu, study every day. When I first asked the Minister how, for example, the receipt of fines or the abolition of the VAT concession related to the pay of teachers, the Minister said that they were directly linked. If they were in direct connection, I am afraid that in six months' time, the teachers would be left without a raise, because the money will not be paid in the amount that is planned. Let me give you just one example. This year, approximately EUR 47 million of VAT was planned for company cars. You could have said it was going to the teachers' payroll. But it's actually going to be 13 million. Would the teacher's salary have been over half a year? One might ask what sources are used to finance defence expenditure and social expenditure. In fact, this is one additional revenue from the state budget and no additional revenue is related to any item of expenditure. I'm afraid that's the case. But maybe it's different from today, I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U54	Thank you. Mr Aaviksoo, speaking from the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U55	Since I was remembered here with a good word, I thought I'd say something with a reply. I really don't share the view that teachers' pay is the most important issue in education. However, I share the political parties' sincere desire to bring teachers' salaries to the level of the average salary of specialists with higher education, which is more or less EUR 1 500 per month, by 2017, as Minister Jürgen Ligi said. In a regrettable way, however, this cannot be done in such a way that the sleeve is completely irresponsibly sprinkled with figures and claims that do not correspond to reality. I am pleased that in the last three years, teachers' pay in municipal schools has increased twice as fast as the average wage in the country. I am quite sure that the current government coalition, too, can and will maintain this pace and that the unconstructive attacks against these efforts, whether they come from any opposition party, will not be able to stop this process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U56	Any other wish to negotiate? No, it's not. Would the Minister like a word? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U57	First of all, I would like to thank Jaak Aaviksood for the details. I agree with him. But I would put to the heart of the new Riigikogu that if there was a desire to create any kind of thought porridge in this hall, consider that it all goes down in history, it goes down in history, and someone will investigate it at some point. It will look at how the question was asked about the quality of the answer, whether the answer met the question, and then see if the comment of the respondent subsequently went into some way with that answer. It was sad today that, in the closing remarks, but actually a little bit of questions, there was a lot of random crap. And it all went down in history. After all, the talk began in the concluding remarks about how my answers have been misleading and should have been read in the State's Official Journal. My conclusion: The State Gazette is misleading. However, I did not read the State Gazette. I'm gonna stick to the fact that I've given the facts and answered the questions. Then there was the claim that I had demanded the Minister to dismiss 30% of the teachers. The answer is that I have never asked for it, and I have never been fired. There was talk about genocide and how the future of the Estonian people is a four-class education. Why do you want to make a remote look like that? It all goes down, people read it. Historians will appreciate what someone said and why Estonia once had such a situation. Go on. Of course, Jaak Aaviksoo responded to whether or not the salary was raised, whether or not the payroll was increased. Yes, they did. I assure you that efforts to achieve this will continue, not only towards obtaining or asking for or arguing about additional money, but also in the direction in which we differ from OECD countries, particularly Finland. This means that our educational costs are very high as a percentage of GDP, but the percentage that goes to teachers' salaries or even to salaries is low. We have very many unburdened square meters, and we have few students for a teacher. There is no way we can fulfill our dreams about the educational costs, except by sanitizing them. However, unfortunately, there has been very little reorganisation. Unfortunately, the state, the central government, cannot direct this process very directly, even though we are trying indirectly. As far as the model is concerned, I actually answered it already. But one direction of the reorganisation is that smaller children should certainly be able to go to a school very close to home; bigger children will have to go further in the future. There's nothing we can do about it. The state is investing heavily to develop state secondary schools in every county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U58	Thank you. The answer to the first question is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U59	The second question is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Valeri Korb, Lauri Laas, Priit Toobali, Rein Ratas, Olga Ivanova, Martin Repinski, Erki Savisaare, Viktor Vassilyev, Mikhail Korbi, Toomas Vitsut and Siret Kotka to the Minister of Education and Research on the closure of Põltsamaa Vocational School. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U60	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This question goes a little further than the previous one. On 16 April, we asked Mr Ligi about the closure of the Põltsamaa Vocational School. We know that eight months ago, in September, Minister of Education Ossinovski decided to gradually merge Põltsamaa Vocational School and Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre. This was to happen sometime in the distant future, at least so they said, but in fact Minister Ossinovski already issued a decree to close the Põltsamaa Vocational School from September this year a few months later, in February of this year. For people on the move, teachers, students, all residents, of course, this was a shock. This school has been a very famous educational institution throughout history, the revival of this corner of the country, the legitimous successor of Alexander's school of tradition. When this decision was notified, 1000 signatures were collected against the closure of the vocational school within three days, various referrals were made. Nothing's helped so far. It is particularly strange that the minister at that time took EUR 8 million for the school building and dormitory development activities in the design phase and directed it to other projects. Where, of course, we don't know. This money was received for the development of one particular object, but was diverted. And even more strange: recently, a modern expensive school building for Põltsamaa Vocational School was completed, a new internship house, which cost EUR 6 million. It was, of course, built to further develop this school and make it even more popular. There were new specialties planned. The student quota requirement was met, last autumn there were 326 students at school. I don't know how many of them there are now, but there were plenty of students. However, the Minister said that this school was not sustainable. Everything changed overnight. Now we have a new minister, and we want to know whether Jürgen Ligi is planning to cancel the painful decision to close this school and perhaps to continue renovations and studies. Suddenly, a miracle is born. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U61	Thank you. Please, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U62	Honourable heirs! There were many statements in the introduction that should be responded to, but I do not know whether this is important. The comments come after all, after all, on freely selected topics and are very creative. But briefly, the education is not closed in Põltsamaa, but the Vocational School of Põltsamaa is merged with the Vocational Education Centre of Järvamaa. I'm going to the questions now. You're talking about twilight. I don't know who's confused. And then you ask what is the final date when Põltsamaa Vocational School will be closed. In reality, as I said, Põltsamaa Vocational School will be merged with Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre. This will take place from September 1st and the teaching will take place in Paide, Särevere and Väike-Kamar. The internship base built in Väike-Kamar will remain in the use of learners and can be used as needed. Investments have been made there, for which the forecast made years ago was perhaps not quite accurate. Next: 'Although the school pupils' quota was sufficient, why is it necessary to close the school? Were and what were the alternative solutions? ' We do not know exactly what the student quota is and what the quota is sufficient, but in the academic year 2009/2010 509 students studied in Põltsamaa, the academic year 329 and this year 292 students began. This is a very rapid decline and must be acknowledged and reasonable decisions made according to the circumstances. According to the decrease in the number of students, the school budget has also inevitably fallen, without affecting the quality of education and the motivation of both learners and teachers. The school is not completely closed until the last student has left, but the trend is to see there will be fewer and fewer students. It was further asked how economically sound you considered to be in a situation where, after several million euros of investment, the school would be closed. It's not good news. Unfortunately, such decisions have been made in Estonia before. There was also, without a doubt, strong political lobby behind the investment, not only a false forecast. I'm sorry it went through like this, but I'm not a part of it. Väike-Kamaris, an internship base built by the European Union's structural support, will remain in the use of learners and will also be able to organise vocational training in the form of level training, adult in-service training and various courses to meet the region's labour needs. You will then ask why 8 million euros were taken away from the school for investments. The actual amount that was not given was 7.3 million, and for the same reason. If you accused us of an investment you had made before, then you can't logically complain about not investing yet. However, all depends on the number of students and the need to optimise the volume of vocational training institutions. But in Järvamaa there are excellent study bases in Paide and Särevere, as well as the Olustvere, Viljandi and Luua schools have been updated. The decrease in vocational education at Väike-Kamar's place of study does not reduce the availability of vocational education in the region, i.e. in Central and Southern Estonia together. The European Union's structural grants released from the renovation of the Põltsamaa Vocational School were used to finance other projects in the education system, which in itself makes sense. Some of this goes to the construction of the school building of the Education College of Marymaa. I suggest you visit it. Last week it was an honor to put a cornerstone there. It's a really noble thing to do. And then, last question: does Minister Ligi consider it necessary to review the activities of former Minister of Education and Science, Jevgeni Ossinovski? This Minister does not have any power to do so. Neither afterwards nor in the future will he be able to review the activities of Evgeny Ossinovsky.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U63	Thank you. And now the questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U64	Good manager! Good minister! In fact, the number of children in Põltsamaa did not decrease until the information came that the school would be shut down. All of this began with the proposal of a government led by social democrats that a vocational school and upper secondary school should be put together. Then, at one point, the same government and council decided not to put them together. In addition, the minister of the same party decided to withdraw 7.3 million money because the children would no longer be able to go to school because there was no student home there. So to justify today that the number of students is falling is not justified. I do think that you could reconsider this decision and wonder whether it is right that one region, where there has been a proper vocational education for a very long time, is simply a politician's decision...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U65	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U66	... transferred money to another place. Do you think that's right?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U67	I think it's right, but I don't think it's right to invest back then. Whether or not there have been any partisans here at any time, I don't always have the courage to say for sure. But the fact that the upper secondary school and the vocational school were not put together was, in the end, the decision of the socialist city rulers, which was not in itself very economic and which, according to current estimates, maybe has not justified itself. However, this professional school would require considerable investment in addition to the internship base, and that would not be wise. We still have a rather thin area in VET, there are very large volumes and, in any case, there is a great need for optimization in this area as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U68	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U69	Thank you. It's like you're wiping your hands out of the previous government. But you were the Minister of Finance in that government, and you know very well how the finances went back then. I, too, stress that specific money was allocated, the projects were ready. Then they stopped them, threw them in the trash and took the money back. I mean, it was meant to keep school going, but everything was cut out in an instant. How do you justify this waste of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U70	I would rather suspect that the waste of money was decided earlier when this major investment was made, while at the same time giving up the integration of vocational school and upper secondary school. As for my membership of the government, while Põltsamaa's decision was made, I was not a member of the government. At the same time, I do not impose my responsibility on others. In conclusion, I think that the last decision was practical and combined as a school in Järva and Jõgeva counties in three different locations, this educational institution is more effective. But, yeah, if you knew this was gonna happen, maybe those decisions would have been better planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U71	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U72	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Those people who say the state doesn't have any money could go to Põltsamaa Vocational School once. I went there on Friday and saw that what happened there was depressing. It has invested EUR 6 million. There is a very up-to-date and high-level internship base or study centre, as it is called. But we also went to a dormitory room and saw that there were probably no dormitory corps and rooms like the ones in the Soviet times. I don't understand how such decisions have been made. Are these really just the result of political trading, is there really no development plan, a development plan? I would like all members of the Riigikogu to go through it once and reflect on how the Estonian state is actually managed. It's absurd, and it's screwed up. I absolutely don't want to say that you've been involved in this, but to bury 6 million in it and then to stop doing this is unacceptable to me. [[Someone's asking if there was a question.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U73	So let's just say that if there is no question, there is no answer, there is a comment. Basically it was, I think, the wrong decision to put that 6 million in there without seeing the rest of the investment and the certainty that a vocational school would be needed in that capacity. But the internship base is still being used, and its application will probably be more diverse in the future than it would have been in this vocational school alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U74	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You mentioned that the quality of learning is getting better thanks to this decision. Does it really improve the quality of learning when the number of students has decreased almost twice since the closing decision was published, while 6 million euros have been hugged there? You're trying to clean yourself up, and you're saying that you're not responsible for this, but we also know that in the last coalitions, exactly the same partners were happy to be together. This raises the question that if there are doubts that someone has been misdirecting taxpayers' money, why is there no audit? Who is responsible for this? If a private enterprise makes false decisions and investments, the management or company owner suffers and is responsible. If the government does something wrong and makes millions go away, no one will be responsible. Do you consider such behavior and attitude to be right?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U76	Since I was not a party to these decisions, I am not fully aware of these facts either. But the state really isn't entrepreneurship, so I suggest you fill yourself in on that. The responsibilities, as well as the bonuses, are very different in these municipalities. But if the state makes a mistake, it can fix it. The country doesn't get rich, the entrepreneur can get rich. These are different areas, do not bring much of this comparison. It's a little like the news of the 1990s that what is private enterprise.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U77	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U78	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Is it right today, when we lack qualified staff, to develop upper secondary schools and general education and, at the same time, to strike a blow on the area of education from which qualified workers can come?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U79	There'll be no blows. The number of places of study in vocational education and training institutions is not decreasing. But we do not need to set up tasks for the Estonian state in any area, that nothing must change. It's amazing that people who talk a lot about making a new one and doing things backwards are the coolest critics when something's changed. Controversy! But it's easier to live like this: promise a new one and then protect the old one.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U80	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Were there, and if so, what were the complaints about the quality of teaching at Põltsamaa Vocational School? Or is quality not valued like this, and we can't say anything specific about it? I'm interested in the quality of my studies.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U82	I myself have not been involved in any of the assessments, and I do not want to appreciate the past very much. There are more than 500 general education schools and very many vocational schools in Estonia. I certainly don't have that knowledge so I can judge them one by one. But I accept what has been said to me about this school and what I've been trying to pass on to you. An emptying school cannot be as effective and motivated as a school full of energy and vitality.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U83	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U84	Thank you, manager. Honourable Minister! Everything has cause, effect, and purpose, and something is beneficial to someone. Who will now own the buildings and premises of Põltsamaa Vocational School? Who are the managers of those who manage the use of funds? I'm very happy that this question goes down in history because I want to know how you answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U85	Indirectly Estonian state, directly Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U86	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U87	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. As I understood from your few questions back, there is simply no responsibility in the public sector. But I'll check it out. I understand that you do not think this decision is wrong, but would it be possible, in principle, to stress all the time that it is not a decision you have made and you have nothing to do with this decision to change and still leave this school to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U88	You started one way and you ended the other way. I think this school is not viable and it should be shut down in isolation. It is right to bring these three places together. I'm behind this decision. I think it makes sense, it benefits both the quality of learning and the use of resources. So in this sense, there is no need to talk about responsibility for this decision, but the question of responsibility for the past was for the wrong addressee. At the same time, politicians are indirectly responsible all the time. Of course, this does not mean that they have no right to become wiser. If there was ever hope that the number of students would continue to be high, and someone believed it, and he made that decision, then error is also humane in the public sector. And it is also human when it is repaired, even by the offspring.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U89	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! There has been an agreement in VET for quite a long time that there is a development plan for VET and strategies for VET. Long-term plans and long-term strategic investments shall be made in accordance with this plan. Quite a few years ago, it was decided that the optimisation of the VET network was largely completed. The question was still in a few schools, but investments were generally started under this scheme, so there is nothing to assume. In the case of Põltsamaa school, however, everyone suddenly decided to end the school life. I have a question whether, despite the development plan and investment expectations, there are still such surprises in the field of vocational education.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U91	Wait up! You yourself also said that, in general, the VET network is ready. I don't dare confirm this statement, but it certainly doesn't mean that everything in the details has been decided. You see, you can never rush forward with your eyes closed, claim that what you have is best and must stay. In any case, all systems are in progress, and no one has any reason to claim that they are ready. The Estonian state is not ready at all. Help support these changes, not criticize them!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U92	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Minister! Põltsamaa Vocational School has started to provide education to young people without basic education as one of the first schools in Estonia. This means that young people up to 17 years of age who have left school have received both basic and vocational education, and there, according to the media, there are also a lot of children with special needs. Are they guaranteed all opportunities for further education at Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre, as is currently the case in Põltsamaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U94	I'm sure the new leadership will have this human dimension in mind. I can't describe in detail how this school works. Of course, this merger has not yet entered into force, but I firmly believe in the leadership of this school. I think its leader is human. I know he is.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U95	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U96	Minister, thank you very much. Which professional schools, technicians and vocational schools will be closed or merged in the next four years?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U97	I have nothing to say about that. If such plans come up, you'll know about it, but there's no four-year plan to close something down in vocational education.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U98	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U99	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! You said that this was not a blow to Estonian vocational education. How do you respond to the dozens and dozens of people who are unemployed due to the closure of Põltsamaa Vocational School?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U100	I don't think I can talk to those dozens or dozens of people. And not tens and tens of people in the Estonian education system, but thousands and thousands of people in the profession. But, of course, the human dimension exists in this case too. However, we are not denying here that the state must become more effective and that all posts must be dignified in the sense that people also have real jobs, that they do not simply fill empty spaces, but that everyone understands that they do the right thing in the best way. Inevitably, people sometimes become unemployed, but hopefully they will find a new job, and that is why we also have national systems that help them. I believe that some positions are also moving to Järvamaa, which is not too far away.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U101	Thank you. There are no further questions for the Minister. Let's go to the negotiations. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm gonna start by telling Jürgen Ligi that this school isn't shut down, it's gonna be merged with Järvamaa school. But the wording of the decree issued in February was precisely that the Põltsamaa Vocational School will be closed from 1 September 2015. Take this document out of the folders and read it! If it is not available, I can bring it, but the wording of the decree was exactly that. Mr. Ligi said he wasn't in the government, and he doesn't know what happened. As far as I know, the Reform Party has been in government for 16 years and should know everything that has been done. At the same time, we have had three ministers for education and research, all from different political parties, for just over a year. And what they want to do with this school in Põltsamaa is no longer understood. I don't know who decided what. We remember that the Reform Party and the IRL government supported the renovation of the school and that money was allocated for it, but when we fought here at the beginning of the year for the survival of this school, we did not see that the IRL had come along or supported it very strongly in the local campaign. Secondly, the Interim Government of the Reform Party and Social Democrats wanted to close this school as a matter of urgency, as you have heard. As already mentioned here, they also took away the money allocated to a particular object. And the current government of the Reform Party, the Social Democrats and the IRL regrets that such sums have been given in the first place and that this school has been wanted to develop. Mr. Ligi! Indeed, the eyes of all the locals, but also ours, have been turned on you. Suddenly, as an experienced person, you are not just acting rashly, and you realize that it is embarrassing to close a school where there are really enough students. You said you didn't know what the student quota was and that you thought the number of students was small. The quota is determined by the Ministry, and this quota had 300 students at that school. Last year, 326 students studied there, so it was okay. You can't close the school if they want to open up new specialties. Everything was prepared, it was already operational. You cannot close a school that has recently built 6 million cost a new modern and expensive school building. How is it possible to close a school with another 7.3 million planned to renovate a student home, as well as an old study building? There was enough money for that. The dormitory project was completed, approved, allocated, and all of a sudden it's all taken away. How can you close a school where people with special needs study? You can't close a school like this. It'll keep this corner of the country alive. It is really completely irrational to close a school that is 127 years old. He has endured through various regimes, social order, historical stages and was built on an own initiative by people themselves collecting money. And now suddenly our own Estonian state will close such a historic school?! If someone says that there really is no money and we want to optimize all the time, then I think this is just a waste: the money will be added at first and then taken away. I also believe that this is a breach of law when Europe is asked for money for one project and is actually given another. How can these views change overnight? Two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U103	Please, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U104	I ask you this: what is happening in Estonia? We collect signatures, people sign signatures, run, nervous, but the opinion of the local people doesn't matter at all, community positions are zero, and everything is absolutely overdrive. I would also like to stress that this has not been an ordinary vocational school, that children with special needs for education and skills have been educated there, young people with disabilities who would not have been able to do so in ordinary schools. There they have been happy to have received education and professional skills. And the government will decide to liquidate this school! I'm asking if anyone really cares. I think so, Mr. Ligi, that historians will evaluate this act in the future, which will be very harsh, and you will not be proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U105	Please speak to the Riigikogu Chair Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U106	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, This Põltsamaa Vocational School story is an embarrassing story. Surely no one who has lived with the fate of this school can honestly look at these workers or the students or the long history of the school. But the lesson we have to learn is, in fact, not what the first speaker meant, it is much tougher. And this lesson must be shared not only with the current or previous or previous government, but with the four, five or six last governments that have invested in education in one way or another, our money and that of our European partners. We have invested in general education schools where there are more than 300 square metres of heated space per student or where there are fewer than ten students, per square metre of money that much richer countries cannot afford. These decisions have been taken under different circumstances, with different political ambitions and, unfortunately, with far-reaching responsibility. We have been somewhat proud of the willingness to organise the network of vocational education and training institutions by reducing their number more than three times. That was over ten years ago. At that time, they were proud of that decision. But the reduction should have been five times, because we have renovated and modernized vocational training facilities at a level that has been unattainable to many of our wealthier countries. We have created 30,000 places of study in this way, with about 16,000 needed. This means more than twice the number of places of study required by a reasonably organised vocational education system. But we did not have the political capacity to degrade, not three times, but five times. That's lesson number one. Today, in this very hall, we call for tears-drawing speeches not to decide to clean up secondary education and continue to support nearly 200 upper secondary schools, even though we all know that 40 are needed. Alone, some are willing to agree on 80, but if we think about what we didn't decide on in vocational education, we should still go for 40. There is a real risk of investing too much in the structure of general education. When I answered questions that attacked and provoked four times in this very Chamber, I managed to stop overinvestment in schools for children with special needs. To this end, we wanted to create about twice as many institutions and study places as the Estonian state actually needs in the 20 to 30 perspective. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of those of us sitting in this Chamber ten years later wondering if sensible decisions were made in 2015, I would ask you to reconsider this embarrassing practice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U107	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Mailis Reps, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U108	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. Thank you to the previous speaker, because I too had the idea of going a little further back in time, but a little differently. If we look back at the development of our vocational education system, I would start with where the previous speaker was. It was very painful at a time when there were major changes in vocational education. And there are still areas that travel more in Estonia, know it, which has not recovered from it. I don't call them polite now, but there really are community centres where VET closed their doors and where the social background that has developed so far shows that there has never been a way of overcoming this blow. At the time, there was a situation where the closure of vocational schools required to face many fundamental questions. I believe that Mr Aaviksoo also remembers the discussions that began in his time about the closure of the vocational school, the only boiler house in the municipality and the heating equipment in the entire community ended with this. So the impact of the changes in the vocational education system was much greater than the expected consequences in the labour market and demographic processes. However, it can be summarised that a very good result was actually produced, a compromise was created in the discussions. This compromise in vocational education meant that, on the one hand, specialized schools were developed, for example, schools in the forestry and agriculture sectors were created, and the rest of the vocational schools were county-based or supra- county-wide, where entrepreneurs and school people together made the optimal choice they could offer. Interesting in all these changes is that, despite various development plans, local communities, together with entrepreneurs, were able to prove their wishes to be correct. Läänemaa is a good example. The people of the Ministry of Education decided that there is no need for a certain school. The locals decided differently, and a very good school has come out. We can also give examples from Harjumaa, where the opposite was true. At first, a certain school had to be preserved, but the community was able to get into a jewelry fight with each other, and now there's no school there. So there are examples of such changes in vocational education. As far as Põltsamaa is concerned, there were indeed disputes in the vocational education system about the number of smaller vocational schools that remain in the educational area, as they specialise in traditional areas. Hopefully, these schools would find their niche. For example, the Creative School was able quite quickly, perhaps thanks to its strong support here in the Riigikogu, to find its own forestry area and, after considerable investments and redeployment of coefficients, it has made its niche quite strong. Similar examples are Olustvere and Särevere, where highly capable school leaders were able to squeeze water out of stone and build these schools using a small niche ingeniously. It was not easy to target heavy goods vehicles, and the members of the Riigikogu are aware that a few years ago the school was able to demonstrate very good cooperation with companies by boasting about its renewed study base. With regard to these figures, Põltsamaa was fine. Indeed, Põltsamaa School was the first to introduce a very interesting niche. He earned the trust of young people who had left primary school at different stages of their lives. Quite a difficult group, at very different ages, but I believe that if you go in and look at young men in their 30s who enthusiastically acquire the basics of mathematics in order to study further, it is clear that this is a very important niche in our educational landscape. Whether the decisions made in the past were correct or wrong, it is difficult to say today, but it is clear that the closure of Põltsamaa Vocational School came unexpectedly. This came unexpectedly to the local people and certainly to those who are familiar with developments in the field of vocational education. Now, if you ask which schools are still going to close or merge, it would be very good if this message were known in the VET system as soon as possible. There is no need for such anxiety in this landscape. Schools operate in good faith and in very good cooperation with companies, and no one misses big shakes. If Põltsamaa school were able to move forward as an independent educational institution, it would certainly prove that it can be very well sustainable in its niche with 200-300 students. If we fail to make significant changes in vocational education at national level, there will be an additional moment in the game. Over the next seven years, European Union resources will be re-opened and we will be able to channel very substantial sums to implement labour market measures. If we do not do so through our VET network, we will be wasting our own money. We have masters, we have very good teachers. Vocational schools have been able to become masters of very fang practitioners by entering into different agreements and often also by contributing to the sense of mission. At present, we often allocate very large amounts of money related to labour market measures to a house next door or to an apartment next door, where these good teachers sometimes teach, sometimes not. These same amounts could be directed towards further training, retraining and further training within the framework of vocational training, and then we would not discuss today in such a rather worrying way whether 200 students are sufficient or not. Really, we can channel significantly higher resources and significantly more other resources there. My proposal is that, apart from the reduction in the number of students, we should also be prudent in considering how traineeships can be used as efficiently as possible in vocational education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U109	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U110	Good fellows! After the hammer hit, I would ask everyone who has an interest to register for a free microphone speaker. Please speak to Jaanus Kariladi in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U111	Ladies and gentlemen, Seven days in politics have gone by again, and I have some keywords about these days. However, the previous speaker, Jaak Aaviksoo, inspired me to change the introduction. When he spoke about organizing the school network, it turned out that the Estonian people are shrinking according to the current direction taken by the government union. It has been agreed that Estonia's population will continue to decrease and decrease. What else this school network with so radical contractions will show. Some ministers have asked for 100 days without criticism. This flood of criticism, which has come from society, has somehow disturbed and disturbed them. This cannot be done in the wider sense, because both the IRL, the Reform Party and the Social Democrats have been practicing collusion in the government since 2007. Now imagine the next situation. A new government will be put together, the IRL, the Reform Party and the Social Democrats, agreed on a coalition agreement, agreed on their excise policy. This topic will go public for some time, and then the Ministry of Finance will come out of its calculations that if the government union implements its excise policy, part of our economy may move to Latvia. But imagine how long a government apparatus, ministries, experts and analysts have been at the disposal of these parties, and still this has not been taken into account. The second keyword is the raising of VAT on accommodation establishments. Studies are being carried out that if the government implements this plan, there will be a wave of bankruptcy in rural areas. And once again, we need to start adjusting our policies. Then, when it was this unfortunate incident with our defense police officer, the campaign began to clean up and clean up the control line. Now we have a message that it will not be completed until 2019. It's 2015. This is a very vivid demonstration of the administrative capacity of our government today. And here's the thing: we're doing the biggest exercise in history on the hedgehog and it turns out that Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser is resting, the Chairman of the Social Democrats is resting. I think that is a very important keyword for today's government union.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U112	Thank you. The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U113	Dear Chairman, Sir...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U114	I'm sure we'll send our regards to the chairman.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U115	... colleagues! There has been a great deal of talk today about Põltsamaa Vocational School, and I would also like to talk a little bit about the same subject. Yes, we really went to Jõgeva County and Tartu County on 7 and 8 May with our group, and one of the objects we visited was Põltsamaa Vocational School with great traditions and a very good reputation. We had the head of the Järvamaa Education Centre, or director Rein Oselin, who is running this school at the end of the day, and along with his staff, he gave us a quite thorough tour. We went to the old house as well as to a very new study corps and met the dormitory, or student home. We received information on how the Structural Funds' money was used quite effectively and a very modern and perfect learning centre was set up for practice. When we went to see these other buildings, we met a lot of students. And these students said: we are ready to live in this same student home under the current conditions, as long as the school remains, because we really love this school. We see that almost 250 young people have started to study each year at Põltsamaa Vocational School, and it has never been difficult to complete this school. But the message of its closure signaled, and it doesn't seem to be much of a thing now, because it's known that this school is closing doors. The new headmaster said that if 50 students came in from autumn, it would be a very good result. I cannot tell you whether the decision to join the Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre ultimately turns out to be a good or bad option, but having been the predecessor of the Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre, Chairman of the Council of Paide Vocational Secondary School, I know very well how students come to school. It is always the basis for friendships, family relationships, or very good comrades to go to this school. Now we've signaled not to come here, because this school will soon be gone. And I don't think Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre wins much of this because I don't think the same students who are currently studying at Põltsamaa Vocational School or who would be potential students of this school would go to study at Paide or Türi in Järvamaa. This distance is too long for them, it is much easier to travel to Viljandi or Olustverre or to go to Tartu as well. Unfortunately, I believe that this road goes unturned towards Paide, because no student wants to move so that he has to change the bus several times before he gets to the right place. If we look at the situation regionally, if we so easily close such a well-targeted small vocational school, so many teachers will be unemployed. And it is also a message to the entire region that you have no future. If it had been possible to channel the same money into building a student home, for example, then it could have been made into a manor house. In this way, two birds with one stone would have been captured, a very beautiful manor centre would have been protected and restored, and a boarding house would have been established, because if we looked at the situation of student homes, they would really be a good thing to disprove. I want to believe that common sense wins, and we will ensure that it is a school with such historically strong traditions that can continue with dignity and find its own student body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U116	Thank you. Please speak to the Riigikogu Chair Helmen Hunter! Unfortunately, good Helmen, according to our rules of procedure and house rules, I can only give you five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, Mother's Day was celebrated, and I want to talk about the kids today. I would like to talk about children in the light that the new Child Protection Act will be in force in Estonia from 1 January 2016. It contains a very clear ban on the physical punishment of a child. Just as physical violence against adults, vulnerable groups especially against women and the elderly cannot be tolerated, our children now have the right to grow and develop without violent educational and discipline measures. This is not a norm designed to criminalise parents, but, on the contrary, it is a state's attitude and value, without which citizens would have no reason to expect such behaviour. Studies show that 30% of Estonians consider the physical punishment of a child to be justified and necessary in certain situations, while Sweden is as good as zero tolerance because 96% of people oppose physical punishment. Parents do not really want to hit their children, push their children, plow them, or turn them into a corner for hours. Parents know it's wrong, but often they can't find any other way to deal with the situation. There were still court stories that dealt with cases that had very serious consequences for the life of a little girl and her future. 5.1.1.6. In May, the Baltic Sea Council held an expert meeting on substitution care during the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the Baltic Sea States. There was a great deal of talk about the opportunities that children should have, what prevention and the quality of substitution care should be, as well as increasing the share of family-based substitution care, support for life and follow-up care. The best solution for the child and his or her problems is not being able to make it to substitute care. I'd like to bring some figures. In 2010, the number of children growing in custody was 1348 in 2014, with 1328 fewer children. In 2010 there were 353 children in the family care group, 216 in 2014, 1151 children in the substitute home care group and 1009 children in those years respectively. Estonia is in fact in a very good position: in institutions, or replacement homes, 39.5% of children are growing; in family-based replacement care there are 60.5% of children. This is why the children's bounty was raised from 1 January 2015 for children living in families and custody families: if the bounty was EUR 191,90 until 1 January 2015, it will be EUR 240 from that year. While we have created nice replacement homes with European Union money, there is not enough money there to guarantee substantial work, a supervision for workers and better wages. For the next period, quite large resources have been planned to enable the establishment of a register of care families and support services, and in 2017 such a register will also be operational. Ladies and gentlemen, I think every child deserves a home. Our children deserve a home, and if they don't own it, then at least a replacement home that can raise a child and guide him on the way to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U118	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Mikhail Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U119	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to welcome you. The reason to come here to the remote is very simple, we hear and talk about this topic every day. To be specific, the subject is taxes, to be more precise, VAT, and, to be more precise, VAT on hotels. By the end of last week, news came to us that hurrah, great victory: hotels do not have to pay as much VAT as they originally planned, 20%. Excise duty is only increased by 5% instead of what was previously planned, i.e. 6% still receives tax relief (formerly 11%). Everything's great and everyone's happy, the government got their thing, and it looks like hotels could be happy too, something came up for them. But in fact, the picture is very sad and sad. Then why is he sad and sad? In this Chamber a few months ago, somewhere in January, the Minister of Finance, and we asked him what he thought about introducing progressive income tax. And the Minister said that under no circumstances should tax be introduced quickly, it must be done as planned, calmly and in years' time, warning the public, businesses and all other members of society. So what's going on? That's another nice example. The government will enter into an agreement within a month and there will be an increase in tax. Very good, that's now known. But as a result of certain negotiations it will be said in three weeks' time that okay, the tax increase will not be as great as it was planned. I ask whether it really is Estonia's tax policy, whether this is how taxes are raised in Estonia. Today they want to raise one tax and increase it by 11%, the next morning, under pressure from a certain force, they wake up and say that there will be no 11% tax increase, only 5%. What's going on? We are saying that taxes are a very delicate issue, that we need to be very careful about this, but that changes are made more than a day. That's one side of it. The other side is saying: okay, let's raise VAT at 5%, but you know, entrepreneurs, you know, respectable hotel owners, we're going to create a fund for you that we're going to support hotels for 2 million. Maybe we'll take 10 million from them and give back 2 million. What kind of a way is that, this foundation? Who's gonna make the money out of this fund? Who will be allocated this money to? Will the Minister start distributing grants before the elections, or what is the content of this fund, will the Republic of Estonia be marketed? If there is a desire to give back 1%, this fund is not needed, raise VAT not by 5%, but by 4%. In short, such a circus and a bardak with tax policy must not simply be in the Republic of Estonia under any circumstances! One morning we wake up and have to pay tax not 20% as we do now, but 26%, and God knows what else can happen. It's not politics anymore, it's child's play, I'm sorry! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U120	Thank you. Viktor Vassilyev, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U121	Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! I would like to say that good members of the Riigikogu, but you are so few here that you are empty. Good people who watch us on TV or read the verbatim! I was sitting here watching what was going on, listening to what was being said, and more and more embarrassed me, and I couldn't take it anymore. I wasn't prepared for any speech, but I couldn't keep quiet anymore, so I came here and I want to confess to you: shame is, it's just shame. It has been a long time since the elections, but the Riigikogu is sitting and holding five-minute sittings here today has gone a little longer. What's the matter? The government doesn't give us a job, it doesn't give us a set. All these fine draft laws that were pending during the previous Riigikogu will fall out of the procedure according to the law. They have to be given back to the procedure, maybe a little bit changed, maybe a little bit tighter, make it nicer or better, these are two different things, but in any case, we can work. But what's happening now? We've been sitting here for a long time, and most of all we've done is we've crushed the presence button, and the wages are running. It's not like we've been chosen here! It is said that every nation is worthy of its own government, and the Estonian people are much better and harder than the government that does not allow the Riigikogu to work. Yes, for a month they discussed their coalition agreement, as if they had agreed something, there are supposedly 98 pages of excellent, fun suggestions. Then it turns out, no, one thing doesn't go, the other thing doesn't go. They argue again, try to rethink something, such a great company is together with the Reform Party, the IRL and the Social Democrats. I have always respected the Reform Party, because either well or badly, for 15 years they have dragged the wagon, perhaps in the wrong direction, but with enviable continuity. We offered to do it differently, but you see, it still comes out the same way maybe, but maybe it doesn't. We don't even know where they're going because they can't work, they're holding hands, they're holding one poodle in one arm, and they're carrying another poodle in the other. Well, put them in a food bowl with a snout, let them eat, you do your job. But no, they're arguing, they're arguing, and they can't go any further. Yeah, they say there's truth to the argument. You know, people, I say the truth is clear when two wise people argue with each other, when three wise people argue, no, even the Consilium, five people can argue with each other. But if there is no such authority or wisdom, argue as much as you want, there will be no wise man. I very much hope that the Riigikogu will, however, work, that the government will also hand over something constructive, that even constructive signals will be given, not just disputes over an empty matter. Now, as a doctor, I say the patient isn't dead, but he's not alive, he's alive, and no one can say what happens to him. A consilium must be called, a diagnosis must be made for this government. As long as there's no diagnosis, it's not clear what's gonna happen to him either. And so we sit here in the hall of the Riigikogu, who sits, who doesn't sit. I'm used to taking a salary for a job, and that's why don't you expect me to sit here, you can always see my back on TV, you'll recognize it well. I'm sitting down because I can't take the money, I'd like to work. But right now, we're being forced to sit here until summer break, and for six months, the government won't give us a job. Let's get to work at last! The Estonian people should be ashamed of such a government. The people are not worthy of such a government; the people are worth a much better government. It happened, but people still have a conscience. There could be people in the government who would like to work for the salary they received, but not just argue with each other. What can we do about it? The patience of the Estonian people is long, but we hope that it will work. Either way, I'll do everything I can and I'll keep working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-11_U122	Thank you. No more calls, let's finish the free microphone. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 5.12.
