ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question time begins. Please, let's do the presence check! 43 members of the Riigikogu are present, 58 are absent. The following members of the government will participate in the Question Hour: Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Social Protection Margus Tsahkna and Minister of Culture Indrek Saar. Last day ten members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask the question. As a result, I am giving the MPs who made themselves known yesterday an opportunity to submit one additional question, as well as to the other in attendance, to submit together one additional question in the debate on each subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U2	The first questioner is Andres Herkel, and the question is for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! According to the Constitution, we have arranged for the Prime Minister's candidate to form a government and changes in the composition of the government to be made by the President of the Republic only on a proposal from the Prime Minister. The mandate received from the Riigikogu also leaves the Prime Minister very free to see whom he wants to see in his office. The last changes that have taken place in the composition of the government have given the public and we here the impression that they were carried out by Mr Ossinovski rather than by the Prime Minister of the Republic. It may even be said that the way in which the amendments were made did not actually correspond to the spirit of the Constitution. Consequently, I have a question as to why ministers Mikser and Vassilyev left and what role you played as Prime Minister was either active or passive.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U4	Thank you. In the Republic of Estonia, there is a coalition government and we have an agreement that each party belonging to the government association will have the right to appoint its own representatives for certain positions. This has been the case before, and so it is now. It can be said that the competence to appoint the four members of the government (the competence to propose, to be exact), whose responsibilities under the Coalition Agreement belong to the Social Democratic Party, is under the leadership of the Social Democratic Party. That is exactly what the Social Democratic Party Board decided to do. Instead of Urve Palo, the resigned Minister of Enterprise, he appointed Liisa Oviir as a candidate for minister and, as of today, as a minister. The Bureau of the Social Democratic Party also decided to replace the two ministers who had been in office so far and appoint Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski and Mr Hannes Hanso as ministers. In principle, the Prime Minister of the Republic has the right to reject the candidates for ministers, saying that one or the other person is not suitable for this office. As I recall, this was the last time in 2002 and there were very compelling reasons for it at the time. I chose not to take this opportunity because I believe that all the candidates proposed by the Socialists are suitable for ministerial office and there is no compelling reason to reject them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U5	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister, I was expecting something like this. But what concerns us is that your role as Prime Minister is rather passive and you are not in a situation like the real leader of the team. The question of replacing ministers in such a way is probably all the more topical and sensitive that, in fact, there is a visible disorder in the administration of other ministers, and I am thinking in particular of the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Rural Affairs. Just the day before yesterday, there was a big farmers' demonstration here; we also discussed pig plague issues. Please tell me how you have discussed these issues with the ministers. Do you also plan to actively make any changes in the composition of the government yourself? In particular, we are interested in the assessment of the activities of the Minister for Rural Affairs in the context of the swine plague crisis and the darkening of AS Vireen. Have you talked to him about this, and what are the assessments?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U7	Thank you. You don't have to worry about whether or not the Prime Minister is leading the team. I assure you, there is no doubt about that. However, I do not lead all three coalition parties; I do not intend to do so, nor do I intend to give the impression that I would do so. If, in any coalition party, be it the Social Democratic Party or the IRL, there is a desire to appoint someone else to one of their positions, then we will discuss this issue and, very likely, if there is no compelling reason to object, we will accept it. That's what they do in coalition government. As far as the ministers of the Reform Party are concerned, here, of course, is the authority of the Reform Party. We have an agreement among ourselves that I have the right to propose to the Bureau who I would like to see on the team and present as a candidate for minister. With regard to the issues you referred to, first of all in the field of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, these crimes, which the Estonian law enforcement authorities have very serious doubts about, remain in the previous ministerial term. To see the present Minister's guilt in this would, in my opinion, be completely inappropriate. On the contrary, I see that he is very active in preventing such things in the future. I would stress that I do not wish to condemn the previous ministers either; it should not be read here. I just find it inappropriate to talk about the resignation of the current minister. As far as the Minister of Rural Affairs and AS Vireen are concerned, the fact that one Minister of the Republic of Estonia does not accept a false invoice does not accept a vaccination does not accept that taxpayers' money is being mistreated, I consider it very right. In any case, even if this bill was only EUR 6000, as some have said, the misuse of taxpayers' money in this amount is also deplorable and must be treated with zero tolerance.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U8	Good questioners, one minute to ask, two minutes to answer. Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! On Monday, President Ilves gave the opening speech of the parliamentary session in this Chamber. He called the changes in ministers incomprehensible. Do you agree with President Ilves? Did you understand why the Social Democrats switched ministers?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U10	Thank you. I do not want to evaluate the decisions of the partner party. I accept these decisions and, on the basis of the decision of the Socialist Board, I have proposed to the President of the Republic that three new ministers be appointed. The President of the Republic has done so, and the ministers have sworn before you. Let them work now. I believe that each one of them is doing his job with a great deal of commitment. Let's give them a chance to settle in and do this job!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U12	The next question is to Mr Tsahkna, Minister for Social Protection. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U13	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You were a fiery opponent of the work capacity reform a year ago. When the government was set up, it was agreed that the adopted Labour Capacity Support Act should be amended to 60% because of shortcomings, errors and technical problems. With these amendments, the bill also reached the Riigikogu this week. You intend to amend the Victim Assistance Act, the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities, the Social Welfare Act, the Social Tax Act, the National Pension Insurance Act, the Health and Safety at Work Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act in order to implement the employment capacity reform. What do you think are the most important changes you intend to make? When are they supposed to come into effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U14	Thank you. Work capacity reform is one of the biggest reforms in this area that the Estonian state is preparing. I have not been a critic of the objectives of this reform. For all those who receive disability pensions, it is essential that these objectives are met so that we can involve as many of these people as possible in society as actively as possible. In the Government of the Republic, we postponed the implementation of the labour capacity reform for half a year. This means that, as of 1 January 2016, the services related to the work capacity reform will be implemented, i.e. we will start to provide these people with services that really help them. The side of the assessment of the employment capacity reform, which specifically concerns these people, their capacity, which is the content of this reform, will apply from 1 July 2016, half a year later, not to everyone at once, but to those who are new entrants to this system. From 1 January 2017, we will also assess the capabilities of those who are already in the system, but who will have an earlier assessment period over. This is the implementation plan. But the major changes relate primarily to ensuring that there are also two systems, when people move from the old system to the new system, their incomes during the one month in which they may have a hole in their income. It is also important that information relating to these people and their personal data flows between systems are secure and legally guaranteed. We also specify the tasks and services to be provided.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U15	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U16	Minister, thank you very much. In the Committee on Social Affairs, you stressed the need to provide both new and additional services to people who have lost their jobs. These services should be provided by local authorities, starting from 1 January 2016, i.e. in less than four months. Services must be offered on the basis of uniform standards so that they are available of uniform quality throughout Estonia. Helmen Kütt, a member of the Social Affairs Committee, said at this very meeting that these standards were already developed in the ministry when his minister was there. What additional obligations and costs do these changes entail for local authorities? Have they been taken into account in next year's state budget and also in the country's budgetary strategy for the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U17	Thank you, good questioner! These are two different issues, although they still concern people who need the services of the state and also of local governments. For years, it has been said that municipalities provide services of very different levels and standards. One of the myths that has been is that large municipalities and cities are able to provide people with the services they need, but small people cannot. In fact, this myth is not true; it all depends on the will of the municipality. There are also small municipalities that are able to take very good care of their own people. That law you're talking about is a separate law. This draft will also come into Riigikogu proceedings, which will be discussed by the government tomorrow or next week. This is a draft law amending the Social Welfare Act. Indeed, we are setting minimum requirements for certain services that municipalities should provide. But the municipalities have the right to assess whether a particular person who asks for this service really needs it. These standards, which have been established, do not require additional financial resources from the municipalities compared to today. We simply harmonise and ensure the availability of certain services across Estonia for all people.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U18	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U19	Minister, thank you very much. Rehabilitation services are an important part of the labour capacity reform. Their prices were established in 2008, and have remained unchanged for six years. In 2014, they were corrected by 7.7%, after the annoyance of institutions providing rehabilitation services became too high. However, the cost of accommodation remained unchanged. In 2015, the price adjustment for services was forgotten again, nor is it known what will happen next year. Is it really logical that, for almost eight years, the institutions must provide the service at the same price in essence? Most of the cost of services is human resources; wages have increased considerably in that time, especially for health professionals. Are there plans to increase the prices of rehabilitation services in the state budget next year? Otherwise, these institutions may refrain from providing services.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U20	Thank you, good questioner! This is a very important issue. I have also reached out to rehabilitation service providers. Indeed, it is true that it is increasingly difficult to provide quality rehabilitation services at current prices, which have not been changed for years. The Ministry of Social Affairs has submitted an additional request to the state budget negotiations, which we are currently arguing about in the government to find the means to provide rehabilitation services, including the intention to regulate prices. We are fully engaged in communication with rehabilitation service providers, and we are aware of this problem. What is important to us is that we can ensure that quality rehabilitation services are provided to those people who need them. This issue has been under discussion in this Chamber for years. If the government comes here next year with the state budget, I hope that we have reached this point in the negotiations so that we can change the situation in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U22	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U23	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Looking at the relationship, Estonia has been quite prominent among the countries of the world in terms of development aid as well as humanitarian aid. Like other countries, we have set ourselves the goal of further increasing our development aid. The current situation is, we all know, rather critical and drastic due to the massive arrival of refugees in Europe. The number of people who are directly asking for asylum from Estonia and who are being sent to us through Brussels is significantly higher than in the past. What have you thought about the state budget for next year, both on development aid and on the ground, about the amounts spent on refugees? What are your thoughts?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U24	Thank you. That is a very relevant question. We understand perfectly well that if we support those regions that are in immediate crisis or in the neighbourhood of crisis areas, on the one hand, it is more humane if we help those people who may not want to travel much further from home and we offer them accommodation and children the opportunity to be educated in neighbouring countries. On the other hand, it is also practical, because this will help to reduce the already very high migratory pressure on Europe. We direct 0.15% of Estonia's GDP to development aid and humanitarian aid every year, and in recent years we have contributed 1.6 million euros to the circa in Jordan, Lebanon, Iraq and Turkey, directly to alleviate the situation of Syrian refugees. In addition, I have spoken to my European colleagues, and yet today I sent a letter to Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission, with a proposal to increase the European Union's financial support for refugees in the neighbouring countries of Syria. In Lebanon alone, a country that is four and a half times smaller in terms of territory than Estonia, there are currently 1.5 million refugees. Most of them do not want to come to Europe, they want to be close to their home, but they lack basic conditions. There is a place where the European Union can shoulder it. I think it should be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U25	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U26	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! As we understand, Estonia's municipalities are not enthusiastic about the reception and accommodation of refugees. The direction is that Riigi Kinnisvara AS assume this task. As we know, Riigi Kinnisvara AS has a lot of assets, but also a considerable obligation to bring income to the state budget. Can you tell us what expenses must be incurred and in what order of magnitude Riigi Kinnisvara AS must be made and how this affects its ability to cope with the obligation imposed on it to discharge the Treasury?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U27	Thank you. I listened with interest how we now come to the state budget, which was recorded in the content of the question. But you see, it finally came. As far as the readiness of Estonian municipalities is concerned, I believe that the real picture is much better than the impression of the answers given to specific questions. We do not really need apartments from local governments if they do not have them, nor do we need money, because money exists both in the state budget and in European Union funds. We also need no other very large contribution. However, we need understanding, humanity, and co-thinking. We know that Estonia, as one of the countries of the European Union, is a responsible partner who helps as much as we can. It is clear that it is necessary to find those municipalities who understand the situation and who also see refugees as an opportunity. In particular, I am thinking of the municipalities, which have had a great deal of sadness because people move away, houses are empty, the store no longer has customers. There, too, you might at least think about accepting a couple of families. With regard to finding housing in particular, the Ministry of Social Affairs is actively involved in this and we are considering very different options. Social housing in municipalities is by no means the only option; rather, we have taken into account that there are not many apartments available from municipalities; they are also needed by the municipalities themselves. I'm sure we can handle our forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U28	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U29	Thank you. I am pleased that you recognise the suspension of human flows moving towards Europe as one of the most important objectives of development aid, so that these people have the opportunity and the conditions to live in their own country. But I did not get an answer to the question of whether the budget for development aid and humanitarian aid will remain the same or whether it will increase and how much money is meant to support refugees coming to Estonia. Some kind of numbers, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U30	Thank you. First of all, it is clear that we cannot help the Syrians in their homeland with money, because there is a war there. This is the war they're running from. We can help them closer to their homeland, for example in Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey. So this support, which we can also provide as humanitarian aid, is not directly intended for people in their home country, but for those close to their home country. Perhaps many refugees who left Estonia in the 1940s had a dream to return to their homes, many of them came, even though they had lived abroad for decades. Believe me, many Syrians, too, have a dream that the situation in Syria will eventually calm down and that they will be able to return there. So let's count on that, too. As regards Estonia's development aid and humanitarian aid budget, we have an agreement that we will contribute 0.15% of GDP per year. Its growth is directly linked to economic growth. So it is estimated that this increase is likely to be around 4% in nominal terms. I cannot say very precisely yet, because the budget talks are still in progress, but that is the order of magnitude of the increase. Of course, it is important to know that the target groups we support are not just in the Middle East. Ukraine is, of course, the biggest beneficiary of both Estonia's humanitarian and development aid. We have planned to support Ukraine with EUR 2.23 million in 2015. Unfortunately, the situation in Ukraine is still complicated. This country will probably remain our priority next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U32	Next comes the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saar. Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U33	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! It is to be commended that the TALO proposal, which is a trade union proposal for civil servants, has been taken seriously and that the minimum wage of EUR 731 in force this year for cultural workers with higher education is expected to reach EUR 900 in 2016. It's by means of layoffs. According to you, a significant number of 4000 employees from the Ministry of Culture's budget are employees of Estonian National Broadcasting, and the workforce of the theatres and large museums is also large. What should be the optimal number of employees in the sector in order to achieve a wage increase of around EUR 170? This calculation should have already been made, because the budget will soon reach the Riigikogu. Who are the officials affected by the redundancies, or how many higher-education cultural workers awaited by such an increase in wages?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U34	Thank you, good questioner! I'm confused. You said you were quoting me, but I can't tell you where that quote was taken from. I certainly have not argued that by cutting the salaries of cultural institutions, i.e. those paid by the state, it will be possible to reach a minimum wage of EUR 900 in 2016. I certainly couldn't say anything like that. We did talk to the TALO, and you probably quoted this meeting from what was the content of the debate or budget discussions in the cabinet. I also support today what we have agreed in the 'Cultural Policy Fundamentals until 2020' that if an Estonian cultural worker is in a position requiring higher education and has a higher education, his salary should reach the minimum level of the average wage in Estonia. This assumes that we cannot move forward with a few percent of the steps, but that wages will have to increase every year by at least 10 to 15% so that this level can be reached by 2020. It's a pretty big growth. We have made an additional request to the Ministry of Finance to get eight million next year so that it can be reached. What concerns cuts is the other side. The proposal of the Ministry of Finance, which is the result of the agreement on the coalition agreement, is that, in the context of the state reform and given that the working age population will continue to decline in the coming years, the number of people receiving public pay should also decrease. This is the subject of a debate in the Cabinet. I fear that the cultural sector will not be able to be an exception here. If the entire state sector, or the number of people paid by the state, is to be reduced, then we must also review our own compositions. This composition means, yes, the size of 4000 people plus some private institutions that essentially receive their salaries through the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U35	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U36	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I'll explain that I took this quote from the Ministry of Culture's website after you spoke on television about reaching the 900-euro pay. That was last night. I don't have any more questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U37	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U38	Good President! Good minister! Let me get this straight. 4,000 people are on layoffs? You're not? [[???Vahelehüüe: 'Ei!'???]] Okay. So what's the approximate number of people that should be aggregated with this so-called deadweight mechanism? How many of these people are there? Do you have any kind of plan to arrange this layoffs? Is this redundancy process ongoing or is it a one-off process?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U39	Thank you! Let me remind you once again of what I referred to earlier. The Coalition Agreement has agreed that the number of people paid by the state should decrease in proportion to the number of people of working age. This latter is, unfortunately, expected to decrease every year in the coming years, i.e. if this agreement is maintained, the process is likely to be longer than one year. Again, due to the forecast reduction in employment, which is 0.7%, the Ministry of Finance has proposed to organise it proportionally as the number of people working in the field has either decreased or increased over five years. In addition, it takes into account that the commitment made, such as keeping defence costs at 2%, does not give the possibility to withdraw money from this area, which means that other areas will have a higher obligation. Indeed, 50 redundancies in the cultural sector in the order of 4000 by 2016 are one of the proposals made by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Culture has never accepted this proposal, but I will come back to what I said earlier to really ignore the fact that the number of people living in Estonia and participating in employment is decreasing, it is certainly not possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U40	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U41	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Estonian agriculture is currently experiencing one of the biggest crises of the last decade. Peaceful farmers would not come to Toompea to protest if it were not worse. Estonia will now receive €7.56 million in aid from Europe. In the opinion of the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trade, however, the dairy sector alone needs 50 million euros of support, which in fact only lasts for a few months out of this 7.56 million. Is and how does the Estonian state intend to support farmers in the current difficult situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U43	Thank you. Indeed, this crisis is serious and is similar in scope to the crisis in agriculture in 2009 and 2010. In addition to the decision taken yesterday, when the European Commission listened very carefully to the arguments of the Estonian Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Minister of Rural Affairs and decided to allocate six times the amount that Estonia could have received from the European Union in proportion, i.e. a total of 7,56 million, this year it has decided to take emergency measures for an additional amount of nearly 25 million euros. And that's not all. We're gonna keep working, and we're gonna figure out how to find more opportunities. I'll list you those things that have already been decided. First of all, in the first half of the year, special aid to milk producers amounting to 6,9 million in order to compensate for the disappearance of the Russian market. Secondly, it has recently been decided to allocate EUR 12.7 million to meet biosecurity requirements. Thirdly, for the buying-in of canned products or, more specifically, for the buying-in and making of preserved pigs from the most sensitive zones, EUR 1.78 million will be allocated for public money. A number of millions more could be added here, to the extent of EUR 3 million to date, which has been the cost of the country's crisis in dealing with the consequences of the plague. So the total amount of money with that $7.56 million is 32 million, but that's not all. On Thursday, or tomorrow, we will also have additional plans in the government for discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U44	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to clarify the answer to the previous question. This EUR 6.9 million, which the Prime Minister spoke of, is actually money from the European Union, not from the Estonian state. But now to the question. Most recently, transitional payments were paid to our farmers in 2013. In the intervening years, your government has not kept farmers in mind enough to pay transitional payments. On Monday, the Centre Party passed a draft decision providing that farmers should be supported at a maximum rate by transitional payments in subsequent years. As your head of government, do you support the fact that next year, in 2016, Estonian farmers could be supported by 21.5 million euros from the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U46	Thank you. First of all, I do not agree with you in any way that you ridicule the European money that has been given for crisis measures. This money is also very important to the Estonian farmer. Among the 32 million euros I mentioned is Estonian money, and we are also planning to invest Estonian taxpayers' money in the Rural Promotion SA, through which it would be possible to lend to farmers on preferential terms in the future so that they can survive the most difficult times. It is quite clear that the taxpayer will not be able to pay for the entire crisis, nor will it be possible for the Estonian taxpayer to compensate for lost profits. We know that last year there was a very high level of profit in some agricultural sectors. The assumption that the taxpayer can generate this profit for farmers this year is not feasible for the taxpayer, I think you understand. EUR 32 million have already been earmarked for crisis assistance this year. I stress that that is not all. This 32 million euros is, for example, one-and-a-half times more than the income support in Estonia to support all those in need, which is almost as much as the amount that goes to provide emergency services in Estonia, which is three times more than we pay to all the unemployed in Estonia. That's a lot of money, and there's no way I'd ridicule it. In addition, it is important to know that, in this period, there is euro money, including normal money, and I am talking about money allocated outside the crisis, 32 million more each year than it was in the previous period, on average, seven years later. As far as transitional support is concerned, budgetary negotiations are still under way, but one observation worth observing is that the sectors most in crisis, including pig farming, would receive relatively little help from the transitional support.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U47	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U48	Thank you. Prime Minister! I think that if you had spent more time in front of Toompea at this so-called tractor parade and a powerful event, not just passing through there and giving an interview, you would have heard the cry of distress that it is precisely the support of the Estonian state that is wanted. It was one of the main messages. But it is clear that farmers are now suffering irreparable damage. It would also help if even our own larger shops bought our farmers' produce, such as pork. But it turns out that the biggest trading chains sell foreign pork. You have made it very clear that a businessman has the right to buy raw materials where he wants to buy them. Do you not think that Estonia should support itself more, look for outlets and say a different message?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U49	Thank you. First of all, to clarify that yesterday I didn't give any interviews on this field, but I did talk to the farmers gathered here. Indeed, part of this conversation was filmed, and we did not oppose it at all. The only reason I couldn't be there any longer was because the Riigikogu session started and the Prime Minister couldn't be late for the Riigikogu sitting, no matter how important a reason he had. As far as shops are concerned, we all know in this Chamber that the time when the state said what the shop can and cannot buy is over in Estonia and hopefully permanently. As Prime Minister, I have no opportunity to tell Selver, Maxima or Rimi what they should buy, but as a citizen and as a consumer, I have this opportunity. Of course, I say that you prefer Estonian goods. There is also a practical reason for this. If the shops prefer Estonian goods, the customers thank them because the Estonian people are very fond of Estonian agricultural products. I believe that all of us, if we look at a shish-bread or chicken pack, will see that it is still produced in Estonia. Therefore, I think it is pragmatic for merchants to give preference to Estonian goods. So not only can I be a prime minister or a citizen, but all as your citizens, MEPs and consumers can give this advice to the Estonian trade network. But it is not possible to officially say what can and cannot be bought as a country. I don't think we want that time back when the country set the store nomenclature.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U50	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U51	The next question is also for Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U52	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr Prime Minister! You have just mentioned that the Prime Minister cannot fail to appear at the sitting of the Riigikogu. On Monday evening, the Riigikogu, or, indeed, only a handful of opposition members, waited for Jürgen Ligi to answer questions before us. Whoever didn't come was Jürgen Ligi. Will it now be the case in a coalition led by you with a firmer hand and in a more firm-handed Reform Party that the ministers decide when, for what reasons and what questions they answer before the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U53	Thank you. Of course, it is important for every member of the government to attend a parliamentary session. As far as I know, there was a communication disturbance on Monday. The order in which inquiries were answered had been said to have been changed and therefore a situation arose where one of the ministers could not respond at a sufficiently late time. I have been told that Jürgen Ligi had a discussion with the authors of the inquiry on the subject and that it was agreed that this inquiry would be answered later. Since I do not know all the facts, I cannot make a final assessment of this question. However, I can say that all the enquiries made by Members must receive answers, and when Parliament calls the Minister before it, the Minister does not have a choice as to whether or not to come, but the Minister always does.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U54	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U55	Thank you. I will ask you once again: will you talk to Mr Ligi about this and ask him, sometimes, how do I say, to try and avoid these communication disruptions from your side?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U56	Thank you. As you, as a Member, have raised this issue, I can see that this issue has gone to your heart, I have no objection to having a conversation with Jürgen Ligi on this matter. But knowing him as a person who attaches great importance to Parliament, as a person who has been a Member for longer than most of the Chambers, including me, I am quite sure that he did not deliberately do anything to treat Parliament with any disrespect. It must have been a communication problem. I believe that such things can be avoided by improving the organisation of work in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U57	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U58	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Prime Minister! I'm a little impressed by the souvenirs we have here on this question. I just don't think we need to have a conversation. I would point out that the law obliges the Minister to respond. The fact that he didn't even report his departure before he left this house is a scandal. We are still a parliamentary state, and Parliament is not waiting for the minister, but the minister is sitting here until his turn. He just can't have anything more important to do. My question to you is: could you perhaps replace the minister? You don't run other parties, but you still run your parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U59	Thank you. I like your thinking. When you're in opposition, you're probably gonna have to ask for as much confusion as possible in the government, the more fun your life will be. But ministers have a responsibility to do... [[Summing.]] So, is...?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U60	Is there a problem with the microphones? [[Interjection.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U61	Let's wait and answer again.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U62	Please stop the clock! We apologize to the Prime Minister! Now the system works. Let's give it another two minutes to respond. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U63	Thank you. Any word? [[???Hääl saalist: 'Jah.'???]] I say, then, for the verbatim report, that the answer was interrupted not by disrespect for Parliament, but by technical failures. I understand that your interest in opposition is to cause as much confusion as possible. You hope that every week there will be a change of minister and as much instability as possible in the country. But if you think about it now, you will understand that it would certainly not be in Estonia's interest. I repeat that, as far as I am aware, Jürgen Ligi informed that due to the change in the order in which he answered the questions he was unable to answer before the Riigikogu on Monday, and also agreed to be able to respond to the enquiries as soon as possible. My position is firm: enquiries must be answered. I also repeat that ministers do not have the most important tasks to perform before Parliament when invited by Parliament, with the exception of a few exceptions that we have jointly accepted, such as foreign missions in the interests of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U64	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U65	The next question is to Mr Tsahkna, Minister for Social Protection. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! The refugee crisis in Europe is getting worse rapidly, and so the reception plan for refugees in Estonia, which was completed in early August, is already somewhat outdated. Hopefully, the pace of preparation will pick up. According to your information, when will the more frequent arrival of refugees in Estonia begin? Where are they primarily accommodated? How many refugees do we have ready to accommodate in Estonia today?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U67	Thank you, good questioner! What is most important about the issue of the mass immigration of refugees into Europe is that we can act in Europe and as Europe in such a way that we take control of this issue. There is certainly a very big debate in society about exactly how many refugees we will have. That's what we need to discuss. But I have been through Estonia in many of the meetings that took place on this subject. The people of Estonia are worried about whether this crisis will have an end and whether Europe will be able to act decisively, whether we can shut down Europe's borders, take control of what is happening in the Mediterranean and stop human trafficking. There are other questions. Estonia has indeed developed an action plan that needs to be improved. This situation is new for us, too. Our goal is to create conditions for the families who come here, so that the housing they are given for use is rented out as freely as possible on the market, so that they can learn the Estonian language, get a job here, their children can go to school and kindergarten, and they can take care of themselves in the long run. We also have a contingency plan, which includes state-owned dwellings that are at the disposal of Riigi Kinnisvara AS. In the coming days, the Defence Forces will hand over extra apartments. So the dwelling itself is not the biggest problem. What's important is that we're ready to deal with these people when they get here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U68	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U69	The question was about the garden, but the answer was sorry! From the hole in the garden. I had quite specific questions that I could not answer. But I'll keep asking. To reassure concerned citizens, you and other members of the government have repeatedly said that Estonia has the opportunity to choose who we accept, whether whole families, Christians, precisely war refugees, etc. How will this promise be realised in practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U70	Thank you. Indeed, our teams go and work in the agreed countries from which we receive refugees, i.e. Italy and Greece. The European Commission now proposes to include Hungary among these countries. Surely our goal is only to receive refugees, or people who qualify as refugees. We do not take or "choose" people who may come looking for better living conditions for other reasons. That is our goal. Our preference is also clearly for full families to come here, for them to manage themselves and for secondary migration to be as clearly under control as possible. One condition is that these people, these families who come here, we appreciate it, are able to cope as smoothly as possible in our cultural space and blend in here. One important part of the previous question was also the fact that refugees are coming here. According to our plans, this is scheduled for the beginning of next year. It is important to stress that not all of these refugees come at once, but that we plan them to come by family when we are ready to do so, that is, we have housing for them and we can provide them with other necessary services.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U71	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U72	Minister, thank you for your explanations. I would like to point out that the European Council on 25 and 26 June reallocated 60000 refugees, of which 170-180 persons remained part of Estonia for two years. According to the latest plan, which appeared on 9 September, 120,000 persons are to be reallocated. The head of this government, of which you are a member, has confirmed in the public media that Estonia does not dispute this scheme and fully agrees with the number of people proposed. I have a few quick questions. What is the reason for Estonia's capacity to grow from nearly 200 persons to 553 people? How much will this double capacity increase cost Estonia? Who and when gave the Estonian government the mandate to increase the number of refugees accepted in Estonia from 180 to 553?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U73	Thank you. There were quite a number of questions, but I will then talk about what the position of the Estonian state is. There are a number of specific points in the new proposal from the European Commission. A very strong emphasis is placed on really taking control of mass immigration into Europe, taking control of borders and helping refugees more vigorously in crisis situations. Estonia's position on this is very important, and the subject is still being negotiated, and it is that the Member States must continue to be able to make their own decisions relating to refugees. This is the most important dispute that is currently being held in Europe. That is what we have clearly agreed in the government. No specific "new refugee distribution" has been agreed today. Estonia will be treated fairly and equally in Europe, which means that Estonia's size, population, economic productivity will be taken into account. That's all that matters. I would remind you that the first proposal made by the European Commission to Estonia in the summer was 1064 refugees, or almost eight times more than would have been fair. So there is no concrete agreement today on how many refugees are added to us. But a very important dispute is that the Member States, including the Estonian state, should be the ones making decisions on refugees. This is an extremely important issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U74	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U75	There are four minutes until the end of Question Time, and Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas can ask a question from Tarmo Tamm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U76	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! I have listened to your answers to my colleague Siret Kotka, and I have the idea that you are still having serious difficulties in understanding the arrangements for the free market. Indeed, in the countries of the European Union, all farmers are supported by European Union subsidies. I would remind you that in Estonia they are lower than the European Union average. After all, we are talking about state subsidies. Estonia has not paid top-up money to our farmer either in 2014 or 2015. When the European Union paid EUR 6.9 million in additional support to the dairy sector, the country missed its opportunity and only talked about EUR 2 million. That's how the deficit has come up. We would have been able to support a farmer directly with EUR 45 million. Is there a top-up in 2016, EUR 21.5 million, or does it not exist in the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U77	The state budget talks in the government are still ongoing. The honest answer is that the Ministry of Rural Affairs has made this request, and no decisions have been made to date. However, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that transitional payments are intended for the entire agricultural sector. It is very, very difficult to help pig farmers out of this money, especially those who are in the most difficult situation, those whose hogs have remained in zone three, the place where the plagues have been discovered in the vicinity. A relatively small part of this money would go precisely to those who need this support most, which does not mean that we should not give more money to the agricultural sector. Apart from the European Union's money, which amounts to nearly EUR 2 billion over seven years, which means an average of EUR 32 million per year more than in the previous seven-year period, we have decided to take a number of crisis measures that are specifically aimed at the two most difficult areas. Taxpayers cannot set the objective of paying as much additional support as possible to all farmers. We need to make effective use of taxpayers' money and direct the entire taxpayer's additional contribution precisely to the areas most in crisis, including milk producers and pig farmers. That should be the goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U78	Thank you. Thanks to the members of the government! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U79	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the first Wednesday session of the second plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U80	Due to the resignation of the members of the Riigikogu Etti Kagarov and Neeme Suur, alternate members Kalev Kotkas and Marianne Mikko took up their seats as members of the Riigikogu today. § 16 (3) of the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu states that if the powers of a member of the Riigikogu during the mandate of the same Riigikogu begin a second or more time and he has taken an oath of office during the mandate of the Riigikogu, he will give the President of the Riigikogu a written oath of office. Marianne Mikko has done this. However, Kalev Eagle must take an oath before taking up his duties. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U81	By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U82	Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U83	Dear Chairman and colleagues of the Riigikogu, members of the Riigikogu! I would like to introduce you to the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act initiated by the Central Party Group. But to make sure that its content doesn't work too formally, I'm going to call it the way we actually speak the language of the people. We recall a few years ago when the budget was cut. It is said that the economy is now, if not better, then at least better times than at the time. You might recall what was cut back then. One of those things was the packer support. All the parents who are in this room, or the MPs who met the parents' voters during the summer, surely know that the grant was really supportive at the beginning of school. It supported the purchase of teaching equipment, sports equipment and even a school bag. It is therefore quite appropriate to discuss here in the Riigikogu that we may have come back to a time when we could restore all or part of the pack subsidy. That is why we have put together a draft for discussion, which brings in the State Family Benefits Act a school allowance of EUR 100 for children aged 7 to 16 years. According to this, a calculation has also been made, the result of which can be taken into account in the planning of the state budget. This calculation says that it's now 1 out of 9. 117460 for children in the upper secondary school, 21540 for young people, who would all be able to receive school allowance for 1 September.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U84	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U85	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu Andres Ammas, Artur Talvik, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu and Jaanus Karilaidi have one question to make. This concerns the audit of the National Audit Office, which was carried out and disclosed to Parliament as early as 2012. This concerned the public procurement of the Port of Tallinn and the reasonableness and unreasonableness of channelling cash flows. We are more interested in why we allocate taxpayers' money to the National Audit Office, which carries out very important audits with its competent authority, unless the Heads of State want to listen very much to them and take them into account. This audit found a number of violations that caused economic damage and breaches of the Public Procurement Act. The Bureau had also violated due diligence requirements. We're going to file an inquiry with Alar Karis. We wonder whether the process has moved forward in the intervening three years, whether the national administration has made conclusions and changes and whether audits are useful at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U86	I have adopted a bill and an inquiry. The Management Board shall deliver them on the basis of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. Please, let's do the presence check! 77 members of the Riigikogu are present and somewhere else 24 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U87	Let's start working on today's agenda. The second reading of the draft law amending the law on collective labour dispute resolution initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Please waitress Vilja Savisaar-Toomasti, member of the Social Affairs Committee!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U88	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft Act amending the Act to resolve the collective labour dispute took place on 15 June at the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu. In the meantime, it's been three months. If you remember, the first reading took place at a relatively late hour, when your senses were already open to other temptations. To make it easier for you to decide today, I will briefly remind you of what these amendments to the draft law consist of. The amendments concern two issues. First, the period of advance notice of the grant strike. In short, it is proposed to extend the period of notice from three to five days. Secondly, the amendments concern the provisions relating to the institution of the national conciliator. There is a longer history of changing the period of advance notice of the grant strike. Already in 2004, the Confederation of Employers called on the Chancellor of Justice to check the compliance of the regulation of support strikes with the Constitution. The Chancellor of Justice found that the three-day term of notice of the grant strike violates the freedom to conduct a business provided for in § 31 of the Constitution and asked the Ministry of Social Affairs to initiate a procedure for bringing the collective labour dispute into line with the law. The Ministry of Social Affairs presented the draft in 2006 to the Government of the Republic, but somehow the Government of the Republic decided not to discuss it. The issue once again became topical in the context of the 2012 strike wave. The Chancellor of Justice has already turned to the Riigikogu to bring the law into line with the Constitution. In 2004, the Government of the Republic initiated an amendment to the collective labour dispute resolution law, but the law itself was not fully dealt with. In November 2014, the Chancellor of Justice turned to the Supreme Court with the proposal to repeal § 18 (3) of the Act on collective labour dispute resolution. On 5 March 2015, the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court made a decision and declared the resolution of the collective labour dispute in § 18 (3) of the Act incompatible with the Constitution and therefore invalid. The judgment entered into force on 5 July inclusive. With this legislative amendment, we will eliminate the deficiency in the collective labour dispute resolution law. According to the current law, it is not fixed at all how long a support strike should be announced in advance. The need to amend the provisions relating to the institution of the national conciliator is due to the fact that a national conciliator has not been appointed for years. At present, this institution is carried out by the Acting National Conciliator and is also assigned under the Civil Service Act, which has expired for a long time. In addition, what happens then and who replaces the national mediator is not regulated if the national conciliator is temporarily unable to fulfil his obligations. Thus, a legislative amendment has been proposed which will ensure the appointment of a new national conciliator in due time. At the same time, it is proposed to establish a post of deputy advisor to the national conciliator. The Deputy Advisor shall replace the National Conciliator in its absence and, for example, if the State Conciliator has withdrawn from the proceedings or until the appointment of a new Conciliator. Between the first and second readings, the Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft twice. Henn Pärn, who is also an observer and listener at our meeting today, participated in the first sitting on 24 August in Pärnu. On the second occasion, the draft was discussed at the meeting on 14 September, which also examined the amendments. By the deadline for their submission, which was on 31 August, the Ministry of Social Affairs had proposed how the draft law should be amended. In fact, we held this debate in Pärnu, where representatives from both employers and employees gave their coordination. The Commission decided by consensus to propose one amendment. This concerns, in particular, the employment relationship of the Deputy Adviser to the National Conciliator. The Deputy Advisor to the National Conciliator shall take up work under the Employment Contracts Act with an open-ended contract of employment, but this amendment shall give the National Conciliator the right to terminate the employment relationship with the Deputy Adviser within 90 calendar days of the appointment of the National Conciliator, giving notice of termination of the employment contract at least 30 calendar days. The Commission considered that the national mediator should be given the opportunity to set up a team and that this procedure should not be too bureaucratic. The Commission supported this amendment by consensus. And now other decisions. Firstly, it is proposed that the second reading be completed. Secondly, it was decided that when the second reading was completed, the draft should be sent to the third reading by 23 September, including the final vote on that day. All these decisions were taken by consensus within the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U89	Questions for the waitress. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, As a politician with a great European experience, I ask you what is the situation in other countries of the European Union. How many have an institution of a national conciliator and how many do not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U91	Honourable questioner, I am indebted to the answer, because I have not really studied it so thoroughly in preparation for the draft. However, these regulations are likely to exist, as strikes in other countries are much more frequent than we do. I expect pre-strike regulation to be in place, but I'll owe you a specific answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U92	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U93	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good colleague Vilya! I realized that the employers and employees of the notice period of the strike were nicely coordinated, didn't they? However, as regards the change in circumstances relating to the national mediator, his field of work and the circumstances surrounding it are best known by the national conciliator himself, who probably could have given some kind of opinion. We have a de jure now, but I think we all know that Henn Pärn is a national conciliator. If we had not a republic, but an enlightened monarchy, it would be a lifelong and bequeathing title. So I ask if Henn Pärn has expressed his opinion on the facts concerning the national conciliator in the draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U94	Dear colleague Viktor Vassilyev! As you will remember, the powers and opportunities of the national conciliator, say, came under discussion precisely at the committee meeting in Pärnu. Henn Pärn, the current national conciliator, pointed out that the content of the work of the national conciliator should be given a more specific framework. He pointed out, for example, that sometimes contractors come to the national conciliator by demanding that a strike be announced. But what does reconciliation mean, or rather, what does reconciliation procedure mean? So far, our excellent national conciliator, Henn Pärn, has done this and we can count the strikes on one hand. I think we have the experience of what reconciliation means. This should actually mean reconciliation between the parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U95	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U96	Thank you. Dear waitress, Everyone cares how much a member of the Riigikogu gets paid, but I wonder if the committee discussed how much the national conciliator is and what level it is, whether he has his own team, and how much the state is using the money that goes on this job.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U97	Thank you for your question. The State Conciliator is a senior civil servant and his salary is defined by law. We know that the first person in the country has a salary of EUR 5200. The salary of the national conciliator is a coefficient of 0.60, which means that the salary is slightly below the salary of a member of the Riigikogu. With this law, as I said, we are also creating a deputy advisor position, and that means that the national conciliator has his own office.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U98	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U99	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have a question. We know that a national conciliator must be appointed in such a way that representatives of the Confederation of Employers and Trade Unions reach an agreement among themselves. The amendment now provides that if no agreement is reached, the Ministry of Social Affairs will have a committee composed of a representative of the Confederation of Employers and Trade Unions who will have to agree on it. If no agreement is reached, the candidate shall be appointed by the Minister. Does the Commission, which is drawn up from the same parties that have not been able to agree in the past, really make a very deep point? Perhaps it would be reasonable for the Minister to present a candidate as soon as no agreement is reached and for the government to confirm it. Such a procedure seems a little strange that the same parties must reach an agreement within the framework of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U100	Thank you. The task of the Commission, or rather, the Ministry of Social Affairs, is to announce a public competition. Figuratively speaking, if employers and employees did not reach an agreement on the proposed candidate, the Ministry of Social Affairs will announce a public competition that is much wider. The Commission does not only belong to representatives of employers and employees; it is a larger committee, including representatives of the Ministry and others. The Commission will actually decide by majority vote. It is not the case whether employers or employees can block the Commission's decision because there is no need for a consensual decision, but the Commission decides by majority vote. I think this is a sensible procedure, because the national mediator is an important institution in our national system. I do not think it is too much if the Commission goes through such a sieve and then decides.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U101	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U102	Thank you. However, I will say more specifically about this committee. You replied that it included representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The law states precisely that the Commission is a three-member minister with responsibility for the sector, a representative of the Confederation of Employers and a representative of the Confederation of Trade Unions. If the employer's representative and the trade union representative have not previously agreed, the Minister will decide in substance within the framework of this committee. This, in my opinion, is still a very strange duplication. I don't see the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U103	Thank you. Basically, your reasoning is logical and correct. However, the Commission has considered it necessary to expand this base. It is hoped that new candidates will come and be able to agree on them. Of course, your reasoning is logical and correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-16_U104	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations, there's no wish for negotiations. The Social Committee's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft 52. Oh, I'm sorry! You see, in the summer, you're rusting. There is also one amendment. This has been done by the Committee on Social Affairs and has been fully taken into account. The amendment has been examined and the second reading of draft 52 has been completed on a proposal from the Commission, as no other proposal has come. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 2.22 p.m.
