ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the fifth Tuesday session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, would you like to hand over drafts or inquiries? Please, Mr Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Culture, I have to hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the nomination of the members of the National Broadcasting Council of Estonia. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U3	Thank you. There are no further drafts or inquiries to be submitted. I have adopted one draft on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides to adopt it in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check, please. 85 delegates have been registered, 16 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U4	We go to the first item on the agenda, this is the first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like to present a speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U5	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on Auditing State Budget' is submitted pursuant to § 19 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure and § 52 of the State Audit Office Act. This draft was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 28 April and six decisions were taken: firstly, to place the first reading of the draft on the agenda today, 5 May 2015; secondly, to appoint a rapporteur for the committee; thirdly, to propose the completion of the first reading; fourthly, to appoint one hour after the end of the session of the Riigikogu; fifthly, to send the draft to the second reading when the first reading is completed, by Thursday of this week, 7 May; and sixthly, to propose that the draft be put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U6	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Do colleagues want to start negotiations? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments one hour after the end of today's session of the Riigikogu, i.e. expected 11.30 a.m. We are done with the first item.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U7	The second item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of a Special Committee against Corruption presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Mr Kalle Laaneti, President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like to present the chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, To refresh memory, on 27 April the Committee on Constitutional Affairs really submitted a draft decision of the Riigikogu on the formation of a special committee against corruption. This draft was discussed in the Commission on 28 April. The political groups presented the following candidates who could be members of this committee: Raivo Aeg, alternate member Kalle Muuli; Ants Laaneots, alternate member Johannes Kert; Lauri Laasi, alternate member Kersti Sarapuu; Jaanus Marrandi, alternate member Helmen Kütt; Raivo Põldaru, alternate member Arno Sild; Artur Talvik, alternate member Jüri Adams. So what was decided? It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 5 May (consensually), to propose the completion of the first reading (consensually), to propose a deadline for amendments as well as one hour after the end of the Riigikogu sitting on 5 May (consensually), to appoint Kalle Laane, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (consensually), to send the draft to the second reading when the first one is closed, by 7 May 2015 and then to propose that the draft be put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U9	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments one hour after the end of today's sitting of the Riigikogu, i.e. 11.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U10	The third item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled 'Establishment of a Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Institutions' submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Mr Kalle Laaneti, President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like to present the chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft decision was submitted to the Riigikogu proceedings on 27 April. a. The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft on 28 April and the following nominations were submitted to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: Krista Aru, alternate member Andres Herkel; Uno Kaskpeit, alternate member Henn Põllaas; Martin Kukk, alternate member Kalle Laanet; Erki Savisaar, alternate member Aadu Must; Ken-Marti Vaher, alternate member Mart Nutt; Hardi Volmer, alternate member Andres Anvelt. The following procedural decisions were adopted: It was decided to propose a draft to be placed on the plenary agenda on 5 May 2015, to propose the termination of the first reading, to set the deadline for the amendment one hour after the end of the session of the Riigikogu of 5 May 2015, as in the case of previous draft decisions, to appoint Kalle Laane, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to send the draft to the second reading when the first reading is completed, and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote. All these decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U12	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Mr Toomas Vitsu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U13	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Such a commission has been working during several Riigikogu configurations, it has a long history. Can you name a few times where the Commission has discovered something? Has there been any results at the work of this committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U14	I believe that all the committees that have worked in the Riigikogu, whether they are special committees or core committees, have worked effectively and the results of their work have been reflected in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. Just like this Commission, all other special committees have to make a final report every year, which they have done. So I believe that these committees are necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U15	Mr Vitsut, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U16	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable waitress! I understood that the result of this committee's work was a final report. I meant something else, of course. If the result of this work is only a final report, is it even needed by the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U17	After all, the final report usually reflects what has been done in the Commission. This Commission has two important objectives. The first objective is to ensure that the fundamental rights and freedoms of people, as enshrined in our constitution, are protected in order to be taken into account by surveillance authorities. The other side of the action is that if irregularities are found, appropriate appeals are made to certain authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U18	My colleague Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U19	Thank you! Dear waitress, On the basis of Mr Vitsut's question, I ask whether the main result of this committee's work is not that civil control, Parliament's control over the security authorities, has been done. This is, after all, the main objective and the main result of this Commission's action, which is that this control will work at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U20	I fully agree with the questioner, and that is what I tried to convey with the previous answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U21	If there are no more questions, thank you to the waitress! Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments one hour after the end of today's sitting of the Riigikogu, i.e. 11.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U22	Let's keep going. The fourth item is the first reading of the draft law on supplementing the Adult Education Act, which was initiated by the Committee on Culture. Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, member of the cultural committee, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today is a historic moment, because at first reading it is the first draft law in its composition. I must disappoint you that this is not an overly shaking or politically overly exciting draft, but that does not mean that it is less important. In particular, the Committee on Culture has initiated a draft law supplementing the Adult Education Act, which corrects the small omission of the previous composition. If you remember, in the previous composition, the Government of the Republic initiated the draft Adult Education Act, a new comprehensive text was adopted here in the Riigikogu, but in addition to this thorough work, the current adult Education Act was not repealed. Since the new law will be in force on 1 July 2015, it would make sense for the version currently in force before that. a repeal 1 July. That is the only content and meaning of the bill. The Committee on Culture discussed this draft twice and reached a consensus that the first reading should be concluded. However, unlike the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we are at a slightly calmer pace of work, so the deadline for amendments is three working days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-05_U24	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There are no negotiating requests. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. 9 May at 4 p.m. As there are no further items on today's agenda, ladies and gentlemen, the session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 10.15 a.m.
