ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! The second working week of the IXth plenary session will begin. There is an opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. The representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, has asked for the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U2	Mr. Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! Today, the Government of the Republic initiates two draft laws and submits a draft decision of the Riigikogu. Firstly, the draft law on ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol. The Government of the Republic is represented by Mati Raidma, Minister of the Environment, when the bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft Act ratifying the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the European Agency for the Operational Management of Large-scale IT Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the UN peacekeeping mission in Lebanon'. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu when the draft is processed by Sven Mikser, Minister of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U3	Three drafts have been adopted, they will be dealt with under the Rules of Procedure Act. There's no more calls. Please, let's do the presence check! Currently 79 members of the Riigikogu are present, 22 are missing. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the second working week of the IXth plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of approving the agenda and there are no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U4	Inquiries. The first question has been submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Urbo Vaarmann, Tarmo Tamm, Eldar Efendiev, Enn Eesmaa, Valeri Korb, Mailis Reps, Mikhail Korb, Siret Kotka and Viktor Vassilyev. On behalf of the heirs, Mr Vaarmann takes the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have submitted to the Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padar an inquiry into the export of Estonian products to Belarus. At the end of last year, in November, a memorandum of understanding between Estonia and Belarus was concluded, which essentially opens up the possibility for our food industry to export more products to Belarus, especially fish and milk products. We congratulate the Minister for creating such an opportunity for entrepreneurs. However, some questions have arisen because Minister Anne Sulling has found that this is very short-sighted and could cause many problems. We have three questions that we expect the Minister to answer to. Perhaps there are already some results available today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U6	The question must be answered by the Minister for Agriculture, Ivari Padar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U7	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Really, you have asked me three questions. I'll start with the first one. The question is this: 'How important do you consider the Memorandum of Understanding between the States and Belarus signed last week? Would it have been signed without an import ban from Russia? " It was a follow-up document. The Ministry of Agriculture of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Belarus already concluded the so-called "primary mutual agricultural cooperation agreement" in 2009, and this was now a follow-up agreement. The initiative came from the Belarusian Ministry of Agriculture. This is certainly an important step forward, because, regardless of the times, there has always been agricultural cooperation between Estonia and Belarus. Now we are simply specifying the areas that are important. I have here a page where these areas are written: crop production, livestock production, mechanisation of agricultural production, agricultural technology, scientific research in the field of agriculture, phytosanitary and veterinary control, fisheries and aquaculture. So it's such a developing cooperation document. It has agreed to set up a mutual cooperation body or committee to review the results from time to time. That's it. You asked whether the Russian embargo had affected it or not. As I said, this is a follow-up document. It is very difficult for me to say that when the Belarusian side called on us to further develop this document, whether or not they had been pushed into doing so by Russian import restrictions. The second question: 'How do you comment on the statements made by Anne Sulling, Minister for Foreign Trade and Enterprise, that it is unreasonable to export products subject to sanctions through Belarus to Russia? Is this a government crisis when two ministers of one government are so divided? ' I do not know the basis on which my colleague, Anne Sulling, has taken this position. Of course, when we went to sign a follow-up agreement with Belarus and we were accompanied by a business delegation, the aim was to promote trade between Estonia and Belarus, and under no circumstances was our aim to smuggle Belarusian food through any other market. I think that my colleague has based his views on the data from some Russian information channels. It is possible that it was Interfax, I think, that there is a channel that really had the news on the evening of that day that the Estonian delegation arrived in Belarus in order to smuggle food to Russia through Belarus. But our very clear position is, as I said, that it is important for us to sign a follow-up agreement and to develop trade. The fact that goods from Estonia could move forward from Belarus has not been a goal, nor was it the purpose of going to Belarus. There are 10 million people on the Belarusian market alone, count on it. Question 3: 'In addition to the memorandum with Belarus, what are your next steps to improve export opportunities in the Estonian food sector? " It is not the case that difficult times make things work faster. I dare say that, since only 20% of our food exports went directly to Russia, it cannot be said that the vast majority of food exports have gone to Russia. However, the 20% drop from direct exports is certainly the right thing to know. All the more so when it has fallen away from all the other countries of the European Union. Since Russia has been the so-called convenience market, it has been convenient to bring the goods there and we have also received a good price for the goods, it is clear that now it is quickly reoriented to other markets. How far are these processes? As regards Belarus, I can say immediately that there was an increase in exports in at least one part of the food industry after our move. The action continues. According to me, the Minister of Foreign Trade Anne Sulling is in Japan today, and it is in these minutes that a plane will land with the Chinese Deputy Minister of Agriculture at Tallinn Airport. Last week we received confirmation from India that, at least from a veterinary point of view, we have access to the Indian dairy market. I am just coming from the German food fair, Grüne Woche, where I was talking to representatives of different countries about boosting trade. The right pace of action is under way, but it cannot be expected that changes in the markets will take place very quickly. I consider it likely that the first half of 2015 will be a rather difficult time for agricultural trade. That must be taken into account. I have not hidden it from the agricultural sector or from the food industry anywhere. That is the case, active work is on, and crisis times are making us act faster. I went to China for the first time 13 to 14 years ago, but there has been little progress in the past. However, if today the Chinese Deputy Minister of Agriculture arrives here and tomorrow the whole day is dedicated to introducing Estonian agriculture and the quality of Estonian food products, then this is quite an important sign. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to asking questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U8	Questions for the waitress. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U9	Thank you. Minister of Agriculture! I understand that Estonian market seekers have occupied the whole world and now all markets are open to us. However, I recall that the opening-up of the Belarusian market is not our favour, but Belarus itself turned to Estonia so that it could perhaps get milk, because it cannot produce enough. You read Japan and India and the other big countries where our milk goes. Have any liters already been sold to these markets, or is this sale planned? Mrs. Sulling said that the Japanese market is tempting him, because there is a very high price. How many litres of milk have already been exported to these countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U10	I have before me the table 'Milk industry and new markets in third countries'. We already sold considerable milk in 2012 and 2013 to South Africa, South Korea, Thailand, Morocco, the United Arab Emirates, China. In 2012, Nigeria, Singapore, Philippines, Malaysia were listed here. They've tried to open that door in a row, and it won't open if you don't start a little bit. This has to start, make your goods credible, and also get to the point of selling goods with higher value added instead of goods with lower value added. It is undisputed that milk powder and butter should generally be started as products with less added value, that is the case. Speaking of Belarus, there has been no development of milk exports to Belarus at the moment. The price of milk offered by Belarus is of the same magnitude as the price of our so-called poor milk, because the cost of transport is increasing. But I can see that things have made a lot of progress in fisheries. This is also an important matter, because now, after autumn fishing, fish are gathering in warehouses. On the Belarusian market, I also say that, at times, food prices in Belarus are 2 to 3 times higher than in Estonia, for example, the price of pork is higher there. However, since there is a customs union agreement on restrictions on imports of pigmeat, we have difficulties. When I was in Belarus, I heard from the Prime Minister's speech that they have an interest in producing more, but now they have such a seasonal hole.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U11	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U12	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I don't want to read the conflict situation in this story, but how else are you working with Anne Sulling? You have a lot in common. You spoke here about a substantial expansion of the markets. How many contracts have been signed specifically, and how is the withdrawal of cheese and milk going? Farmers say they're in a lot of trouble.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U13	I have no objection to my colleague, Anne Sulling. We have a very pleasant cooperation. It's not bad when Anne Sulling deals with some markets and I deal with others. The Japanese market is very important to us in the long term. There is a stable democracy, but with stable democracies, it makes sense to have all kinds of trade relations. Trade relations with such a country will not be interrupted, for example, because some Estonian politician has said badly about some high officials. There is no political twitching in stable democracies. It is certainly worth doing business with such countries in the long run, and I think it is very nice for Anne Sulling to do so. As I recall, there is a shortage of milk products in the Japanese market of about 60%.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U14	Tiit Tammsaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I, too, do not understand the problem that has now arisen here. I think that any sales option, no matter which country, is welcome, even a sales option in Belarus. But maybe we could talk the other way around about this short-sightedness. As we know, Belarusian tractors are among the most popular among Estonian farmers. Have Estonian farmers been shortsighted when they bought them in Belarus?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U16	Thank you. It has to be said that Belarus is a very large producer of agricultural technology. The most famous thing they have is Belarus tractors. I've done the same thing, and in the past, I've acquired it. However, it is clear that changes are taking place in the market and that the proportion of tractors in Belarus is still decreasing. Although, as I recall, 100 new tractors were bought in Estonia in the order of magnitude in 2014, so Belarus has not disappeared.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U17	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U18	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I suggest that your party associates read the question first. We didn't have any complaints against you at all. It is very good that you went to Belarus and are looking for new markets. Right now you're saying you and Sulling haven't talked about this yet. In a month, you won't be able to fight again, and maybe you'll survive the end of this government. But what do you say it's gonna be two or five more years before our milk stays in the fridge for six months and doesn't get mad? It seems that we no longer support our farmers. What have you done specifically to keep our farmer alive? I mean, by now, the first companies are already broke.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U19	The first companies aren't bankrupt yet, but a whole lot of companies have had a lot of problems. These difficulties, as we know, will come out in the spring. Above all, they are companies that have already had some problems. That's where these things start. Clearly, the crisis is the last blow. That's right. As regards support for agriculture, the 2015 budget includes an amount of EUR 300 million to support agriculture. The maximum that could be is EUR 323 million, which is theoretically possible for the country to make an additional payment. This additional payment has been lost since 2013, when I was known to be a Member of the European Parliament. Recovery of this additional payment is a matter of the 2016 budget. In the next coalition negotiations, whoever will hold them from 2 March, this is certainly a very important issue on the table. What can we do? We can do what I have very strongly recommended. How do you behave? As far as the crisis is concerned, it is primarily a crisis between the European Union and Russia, the solutions must come from the European Union and be common. We have succeeded so far, we have received special support for our dairy industry from keeping this line. With this special support, nearly EUR 7 million, we will pay out by mid-February, presumably by 15 February. From there on will continue negotiations with the European Union for specific grants to survive 2015. We have launched new measures at the Rural Promotion Foundation, especially for those companies that have encountered difficulties due to Russian import restrictions. We will also see a very important role for the Rural Promotion Foundation in the future if, in four or five years' time, a new crisis should come. During this period, the Rural Development Foundation should develop into a much larger and more powerful crisis resolution partner. It's pretty important. This year we will start paying out all investment measures and collecting project applications. Today was a big information day at the Ministry of Agriculture for the consuls on the small producer development measure, a completely new measure in agriculture. It should be noted that the self-financing of small producers is 0%. We want to implement it in such a way that the declarations come to the PRIA by 9 February, the PRIA takes two weeks to accept the applications and then the investment measure for larger farmers comes from there at the end of February. In March, there will be an alternative economic support measure for non-agricultural businesses. Perhaps in the first eight months of 2015, we will open a whole new rural development plan and it would be a sin to say that there will be no opportunities for one, another or third applicant.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U20	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U21	Good manager! Good minister! You said no farms have gone bankrupt, but do you know that over 20 farmers sell both pigs and cows? These include the TOP 10 packers who are no longer able to manage. They don't want to go bankrupt, they're trying to find solutions, but the solution is they're selling animals. Don't you think you should have restored the top-up this year or done something else to keep the farmers alive somehow? It is great that we are going to buy concrete or machinery again for European Union funds, but if dairy and pig herds disappear, it is still very difficult to restore them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U22	It's very sad that the IRL government lost the top-up in its time. I will do everything I can to get it back in 2016. I know very well what kind of companies we're talking about. These are companies that have their own history of why this has all happened. One such very sad thing is the very bad behaviour of the dairy industry in paying milk money, which has created an additional strain on one company. That's the thing. As regards the European Union's support, this is, for the most part, an investment measure, but the exceptional dairy premium of EUR 7 million is the most direct aid per kilo of milk. This is a direct crisis measure and we want to negotiate with the European Commission in the near future, or, let us say, that they have already begun in Berlin by Grüne Wochel.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U23	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. At the end of the summer of last year, our group met at the sitting of the dairy farmers' association, I do not remember the exact name of this association with one of the members of the board. This occurred after Russia had issued sanctions about a month ago. He said that a third of the milk went to Russia at the beginning of the summer, another third to Latvia and Lithuania, but also to Russia from there. One third of the milk remained in Estonia and went to other countries. Is it possible to get an overview of the situation? Does the current situation correspond to this black forecast that two thirds of the market has simply disappeared for Estonian dairy producers? Please state in percentage how much milk is currently produced, for example, compared to June last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U25	The share of milk exports has been that while direct trade with Russia has been around 20% of all our food exports, direct trade with Russia has been around 25% in the dairy industry. But that is not the whole truth, because there is also the milk that we have exported to Latvia and, in particular, to Lithuania, which has been produced on the markets there, part of which has entered the Russian market. As a result, the impact on exports in the dairy sector as a whole can be estimated at 40-50%. But if we talk in simple figures that about half of the milk we use ourselves and we export about half of it, then the Russian embargo would have created difficulties just like half of the milk exported, but in fact there are difficulties with the total quantity of milk exported. That's because half or half, but in any case, the price has fallen. That's what the numbers are. As I said, Russia has been a good and comfortable market, but always a politically unstable market. Look, I have been a minister at different times in 15 years, and it has never been the case that there was no political business with Russia, how the goods could be sold there, when someone had said something wrong again.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U26	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U27	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. It is sad that the government does not understand whether to make a policy towards the East or the West. I hope that you will not have a final fight before the new elections, but will still rule until the end of your time, because it must also be held responsible for how you have ruled. After you went to Belarus, Russia shut down Belarus' exports and the President of Belarus made a sharp statement about Russia. So I don't know where this victory for Estonia comes from. But that's what I'm asking. You are talking about large sums, 300 million euros, etc. Let us be honest that all the other Member States of the European Union receive these subsidies to a significantly greater extent than Estonia's 300 million euros. It cannot be regarded as a winning job, or as a special grant of EUR 7 million, because Latvia and Lithuania received more. This isn't a job win. Why has the current Estonian government left the farmer entirely on his own? Tell me one real step you've done for a farmer since the Soccer has been in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U28	I don't know if you have till morning. As regards government, the situation in agriculture and direct payments, as I have said, it was the decision of the Government of the Republic since 2013 that the top-up will not be paid. Restoring such large amounts in the budget is not a matter of a year. I am working to get this thing back to the budget in 2016. The other thing, top-up is not a crisis measure. Top-up, if it were included in the 2015 budget, would be paid in December 2015, in particular through the single area payment. When we are talking about crisis measures, much more flexible measures are needed and, as I said, a joint response by the European Union. The fact that we have received a grant from Europe in this situation is a very big job win. There are very many Member States of the European Union that have not won this attitude in many areas. It has to be said that the process of shaping the joint process started with the meeting between me and the Latvian minister in Räpina, South Estonia, where we set out how to act together. These things have gone well. As regards the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture in 2014, we have done a great deal of work with the rural development plan and we have reached a very reasonable compromise. Part of this is the need to balance the entire agricultural market and not only to talk about large-scale agriculture, which is, of course, a very important table cover. There is also a need to talk about jobs and smaller farms in rural areas. As I said, today was an information day on the investment measure for small producers, a very important measure for which EUR 12 million exists this year. There's never been such a thing before. This robust and voluminous programme of support for small producers has not been in place throughout the period that I remember when the agricultural policy of the European Union has been pursued in Estonia in recent years. We've done a lot of work. This certainly cannot be measured from anywhere merely with what is in the 2015 budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U29	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U30	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I want to be more specific. The first half of the question is this. If I want to import agricultural production from Estonia, which way do I have to take the first step, to whom I have to turn, to the Minister for Agriculture or to the Minister responsible for export? The issue of Belarus raised such a question. The other part of the question relates to whether, among the countries with which Estonia cooperates in this area, there are also those that can be assessed if Sulling's assessment is based on other countries. Does this mean that the assessment made within this regime must now be given the highest priority in order to develop or stop cooperation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U31	As regards the interest of a particular undertaking in importing or exporting, it is necessary to first look at which agreements exist between countries. It is certainly important whether the country of importer recognises the food safety requirements imposed in the country of exporter. This is the first very important component. The most important is transnational communication on a general scale. It's the State Department. The second issue is mutual veterinary recognition. I was talking about India. From there we received a confirmation last week that the food safety requirements that we meet in Estonia will be accepted for milk. It is the case with China that we have sent our documentation and are waiting for a health certificate to confirm that China accepts Estonia's food safety conditions. That's where things start. If there is cooperation at the general political level and there is trust at the veterinary level, then there will be those things called communication between economic operators. It is the matter of the Minister for Agriculture or the Minister for Foreign Trade to open the first door, from there to there the activities of entrepreneurs on one market or another will start.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U32	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U33	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Minister of Agriculture! In your introductory speech, you spoke from China alongside Belarus. Of course, the scale there is immeasurably larger. The main success factor in Asian business culture is when these doors are opened by ministers, presidents, prime ministers. Mid-level officials or producer associations simply cannot open them. Are there plans to make visits in this area? How do you even assess real potential? If these doors were to be opened and trust between the veterinary authorities had been created, how will you assess the potential there, even if compared to this very Belarus issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U34	As far as the example of China is concerned, I say that in these minutes a plane will land with the Chinese Deputy Minister for Agriculture at Tallinn Airport. I think that's a pretty important sign. It is important that we sign a memorandum of understanding tomorrow. We will go to Estonian farms tomorrow and see what conditions and how production is carried out in concrete terms. I think this is an important step forward. There's interest. We know in a large way which products have an interest in. That's how it goes. Once again, the Russian embargo has made some wheels go faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U35	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U36	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I read about Finland's Valio building a company in the Leningrad region in Gatchina and its sales to Russia increased three times after that. We are trying to go to the same market, I do not know whether through Belarus, Japan or some other country. Finland is also a country of the European Union. Don't you think there's something wrong with our politics?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U37	I'm going to repeat what I've been saying here for a long time. Do not link the entry into the Belarusian market to the fact that the Minister of Agriculture of the Republic of Estonia has been smuggling Estonian goods to Russia in Belarus. Is that the face I look like? It didn't exist! I have been to Belarus to talk about whether there are opportunities to sell Estonian food products to Belarus. The result has been generally positive. Estonian entrepreneurs have gained additional experience in how to negotiate with the people of Belarus, and we have had the opportunity to export certain foodstuffs more widely. A very representative delegation from Belarus is coming here in mid-February to take a countervisit. It's an important sign. One of the contacts that was not mentioned is the reception visit of the Moldovan diplomatic mission to Estonia. Moldova is a market with 3.5 million people, food prices are as high as in Estonia, but people's purchasing power is much smaller. But really, alongside Belarus, there has been a very close cooperation with Moldova, one could say. We also hope for a very good partnership with the new government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U38	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. When can you report the results? I had the opportunity to speak to Mrs Sulling on this very subject. When I asked him when the results were coming, he first promised in November, after December, and now he's not promising anything at all. Is it hoped that you can report that yes, cooperation has resulted in contracts with such volumes? When do you expect this news?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U40	I haven't stirred up any speculation. I have told everyone that 2015 is a very difficult year. But I want to hope that, in the first half of 2015, the European Union's internal market will stabilise and start to grow. I want to hope that prices in the European internal market will start to rise in the second quarter of this year, because in January (the same forecast for February) they have been so record low that there is no place to go down. As far as other possible partnerships are concerned, as I said, work is under way. Even if, for example, my colleague, Heimar Lenk, was Minister for Agriculture, he could not afford anything but work.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U41	After such a good conclusion, the questions ended. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U42	Manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! It's good to hear the work is on. It would be strange if the ministries and ministers didn't work. However, I can say that there is a lot of traveling and phone numbers, but there is no real result that can really be estimated by now. Unlike Lithuania, for example, which has managed to open up several markets for milk and meat in America, Estonia had no new markets in 2014. There is always talk of subsidies from the European Union, which seem to be quite large, but they must always be compared with those from the countries with which we compete in the open market. It must be acknowledged that Estonia is the only country in the European Union that is allowed to pay farmers an additional top-up, but does not take advantage of this possibility. This puts our farmer in a very difficult and special position. I find it absolutely amazing that the party is in the government and has a seat as Minister of Agriculture, but it is said that something was agreed once, three or four years ago. I ask what was agreed by the party when it went with the Reform Party of the Government Coalition and started implementing this policy. Who prevented you from writing that promise into the coalition treaty? You received a letter several times more expensive promises, but you didn't actually get a cent for the farmer. It's your choice. To blame someone else for that is, in my opinion, completely stupid. You should admit that you accepted that you did not receive the farmer's supplement, and that was the price of the agreement. If the country did not have the money from the budget, the country should have taken a loan, but paid the farmer its debt. Because the consequences are sad. Obviously, there is no need to explain to anyone in this Chamber what agriculture means. It's not like I'm gonna close a boot factory one day and open one day. It is difficult to restore this process and to maintain the level that the Estonian farmer has reached. In dairying, we can say, Estonia is at the absolute top of Europe. I think it's really stupid to let it all go down lightly and irresponsiblely. Well, there's the stupidity that's been done before, isn't there? For example, 71 million euros of milk was exported to Latvia and Lithuania, which would have meant 500 jobs in Estonia. Why has this problem not been solved? Why is that? Is it not possible to regulate with some policy that milk is not exported but processed here? In fact, it is now twice as difficult because we do not have any markets for raw milk anyway. You can only go with products with a slightly longer shelf life. This is a job that has not been done at some point. I don't know who to blame specifically for this, but that's the result, and it's all accumulated. The Estonian farmer has been put in a very difficult situation indeed. The government still needs to come up with a measure to ensure that Estonian agriculture remains at the level that is currently the case. This is our trump and our advantage. We may be able to come up with all kinds of start-ups and I don't know what else, but this kind of production is going to America anyway, but we still have the Estonian field and the farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U43	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U44	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the sentence by which the Minister for Agriculture concluded that even if the Central Partyman Heimar Lenk was Minister for Agriculture, things might not be as good as they are now. In response, Mr Tammele, I would like to say that it is very good to be in opposition and to be critical of the work of all ministers. We know very well how hard the Minister for Agriculture has been looking for markets, just as Anne Sulling has been looking for markets. Results don't come overnight, they can't come overnight. But they're coming. Now, about the reproach that even more expensive promises have been entered into the coalition agreement. Yes, a selection has been made here, and it is precisely those measures that have been proposed as a matter of urgency, such as an increase in child benefits. I think, Tarmo, that if you go to Southeast Estonia, you, having talked to your families, know that the first major child benefits have already been received by mothers and fathers. We have achieved that the first and second child allowances will rise to EUR 45 this year and the third child to EUR 100. If we are still in the government after 1 March, we will certainly increase child benefits in the future. I am very pleased that there is also a larger programme of support for small producers. When you ask how this affects the situation of farmers, I say that how many farmers' children receive such benefits, free lunch at upper secondary school and even more child support in the future will ease the situation of farmers. We want strength for the Minister of Agriculture! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U45	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U46	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, When I listened to Inara, I decided that I would come to the remote and tell a story. Once upon a time, I asked a colleague what we were going to do. He said, "Let me act like I'm in an anecdote." I asked what kind of an anecdote it was. That sounds something like that. An older member of the Riigikogu finishes his job here and doesn't come here anymore. There will be one younger person in his place. An older colleague gives him three envelopes and explains: 'Look, if you are in opposition and they ask why this or the other one has not been done, look at the envelope. ' The younger one opens the envelope, and it says: 'The coalition is all to blame. ' The elder continues: 'If you are in the coalition, show everyone what is in this envelope. " The younger one opens the envelope: " The world's economic situation is at fault. ' An older member of the Riigikogu goes on to say: 'But if you are accused of one situation or another, and I have been there and there, then open the third envelope. ' A young colleague opens. 'I'll do it in the next composition,' is written in the third envelope. So this diagram has long been described. There's even these little pieces hiding somewhere, maybe somebody's got that old, well-known story fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U47	There are no more requests to speak. Is there anything the Minister would like to add? No, I don't. I will close this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U48	The following inquiry has been submitted by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Kalev Kallo, Mikhail Korb and Kadri Simson. Mikhail Stalnukhin appears on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U49	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! The Youth Work Act provides for the creation of youth work as the conditions for the versatile development of a young person's personality. Summer chess work is one of those youth work that some of us remember and realize that it fits in with the youth work law formulation of one hundred percent. In order to make it easier to form chess parties, the Estonian Centre Party had to come up with the idea of exempting the employers of young people working in chess from social tax obligations. We introduced this law in May 2011, and it happily passed the first reading. It's been almost four years now, but like this bill was in a box somewhere in the Commission, so it's there. We have some questions for the Minister about youth work and chess. The third key question is how far the preparations are to exempt the chesskeepers from paying social tax on the salaries of young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U50	Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science, must answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear heirs, I will answer the questions you have asked. Question number one: "What do you estimate about the proportion of student chess and work education in youth work? " Youth education and young people's readiness for employment are very important in youth work. In the current Youth Development Plan, supporting young people's readiness to work is one of the main objectives. In order to prevent and successfully tackle youth labour market problems, we can create opportunities for young people to gain work experience, support the transition from education to the labour market, secure access to employment, a better knowledge of working life and the acquisition of skills and knowledge that will help young people to be in a more secure position on the labour market. In most cases, chess organizers are municipalities or institutions they manage, usually youth centres, and local authorities are the employers of three-quarters of the male population themselves. Local authorities are in a role where, as organisers, they would like as many young people as possible to participate in the chess, but not all of them have the means to prepare the chess. Here is the important state support that the Estonian Youth Work Centre allocates to chess organisers in order to ensure that there are more chess places than local authorities can guarantee from their own resources. Young people are one of the methods of raising work, which combines opportunities for young people to gain work experience, acquire the knowledge and social skills necessary for working life. Younger people have become a widely used form of work education in Estonia, involving more than 4000 young people per year. The Ministry of Education and Research has supported youth chess organisers since 2006. The implementation of the "Youthseeking' project is managed by the Estonian Youth Work Centre, a branch of the Ministry. The aim of the project is to support local chess organisers, as has already been said. Next question: 'What steps will the Ministry of Education and Research take to increase the number of student chess places? ' The Ministry of Education and Research does not directly increase or reduce the number of chess jobs, but supports chess organisers in order to have motivation and opportunities to offer chess jobs to young people. As has already been said, chess organisers are generally either local authorities or their sub-offices. The Ministry of Education and Research supports municipalities and other chess organisers with gambling tax resources, based on the state budget's possibilities, and has consistently increased this support. The amount of the subsidy was EUR 96000 in 2011, EUR 98500 in 2012, EUR 102500 in 2013 and EUR 120000 in 2014. By 2015, it has been decided to allocate EUR 140000 to the "Young People's Programme', which is EUR 20000 more than in 2014. To ensure continued opportunities for young people to participate in the chess, the Ministry of Education and Research plans to increase, as far as possible, the annual support for youth-friendly projects and to increase both support per chess day and the number of sites supported. Secondly, there will continue to be support for chess organisers, increasing their competence, organising training and introducing the best methods. In addition, during the new period of allocation of euro funds, the Ministry of Education and Research is planning to expand the availability of vocational education methods and involve a larger number of young people through the possibilities of youth work. As an example, the cooperation between the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs for the implementation of the Youth Guarantee in Estonia and the activities planned on the basis of the implementation plan for the youth development plan already described, which broadens young people's chances of obtaining short-term work experience, including youth chess. The next question: 'How far are the preparations to exempt chess keepers from paying social tax on young people's wages? ' This issue has been discussed, in particular, in the course of the two draft proceedings, which I will describe, although I have already done so here once. On 9 May 2011, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party submitted a draft law amending the Youth Work Act and the Social Tax Act (38 SE), in which the authors proposed to supplement Section 6 (1) (14) of the Social Tax Act, according to which the State would have undertaken to pay social tax for a young person working in the chess. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law pointed out that the aim was to reduce the tax burden on employers, assuming that it would directly support their interest in creating more jobs. At the same time, the change would have led to an increase in the state's obligations, since, apart from the obligation to pay the support of the youth managers, there would have been an additional obligation to pay the statutory social tax on the remuneration earned by the young people in the process. According to the draft preparers, in 2011 the additional financial impact on the budget, i.e. the State's loss of tax revenue, would have been EUR 128000. However, the draft did not take into account the increasing obligations of the state to pay social tax on behalf of employers. Another similar draft was prepared by the Ministry of Education and Research in 2011, in which these shortcomings were taken into account, but this draft was not supported by inter-agency coordination. To sum up, the problems associated with tax changes are as follows: The total budgetary impact of the change has not been taken into account. The tax advantage, which is certainly important, does not directly guarantee the creation of new jobs, as the motivation of employers is influenced not only by tax relief but also by other labour laws. For example, employers' motivation is certainly much more affected by the work that minors are allowed to work, employment contracts, etc. The tax incentive does not affect the motivation of the Chevaliers to create more jobs, as it does not reduce the costs associated with the management of Chevalian transport, overnight accommodation, catering, the salaries of the Chevaliers, training, organisation of socializing events, and state support is still needed. These problems are certainly relevant now, but I can say for my part that the most important reason is the disagreement with the Ministry of Finance on tax relief. Personally, I am in favour of exempting people for whom 13% of health insurance has already been paid. However, as has been said, this proposal was not supported by inter-agency coordination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U52	Any questions for the Minister? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations, no calls. I will close this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U53	The following inquiry has been submitted by Mikhail Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Kalev Kallo, Kadri Simson and Siret Kotka. Mikhail Korb will speak on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U54	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We presented an inquiry on the subject of the transition to the Estonian language in schools with Russian language of instruction. We submitted an inquiry on 18 November, which is more or less two months ago. The reason for this presentation was a report prepared two months earlier, in September, on the effectiveness of the study of upper secondary schools using Russian language during the transition to upper secondary school in Estonian. This report highlighted the shortcomings and a number of things that have not been done. That line was pretty long. One conclusion is that the transition of schools to upper secondary school education in Estonian is often merely a formal achievement which is questionable in relation to better proficiency in the Estonian language. In addition, neither teachers nor students believe that the transition to a part-time study in Estonian will improve the state language skills of upper secondary school graduates. Instead, the link is seen with the overall success of the school and the quality of the acquisition of knowledge is linked not to the language of instruction but to the overall success of the school. More questions have arisen today because the Minister has come up with certain plans. One of them is to abolish 60% and 40% of the claim. The Minister has said that more Estonian is needed in primary school. The questions we asked on 18 November are still very topical. We definitely want to find out who's responsible for not dealing with these things. There are, of course, questions about what has been done in the four months since the report was published to this day. What are the real steps, the real activities that will help young people in Russian schools to acquire the Estonian language better, the language skills will certainly help them to succeed in life, in a form that does not create stress? Thank you for your attention. We expect an answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U55	Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science, must answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U56	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you, as well as the next questioners, many of whom are not in this Chamber at the moment, but hopefully they will still come here, in Estonian society, for raising a crucial question in my opinion! I believe that ensuring better knowledge of the Estonian language and better education for young people with Russian native language is extremely important both to increase the coherence of society and to ensure equal opportunities in Estonian society. We have done an enormous amount of work in less than a year in the Ministry of Education to deal with this issue in order to analyse the situation and the changes that have taken place in this area over the last 20 years and to provide new solutions to overcome bottlenecks. The working group I have convened, which you also referred to in the report, has included various studies and analyses, attended many schools, interviewed students, teachers and school leaders, and looked at school lessons. On the basis of this work, a large report has been produced, which is available to everyone on the website of the Ministry of Education. At the same time, according to the government action programme and the recommendation of this report, we have carried out separate analyses to clarify both the quality of educational resources and the reality of the teaching community. An in-depth analysis of the state of Estonian language learning in a comprehensive school has been carried out and a complex understanding of what should be done differently in Russian-speaking schools. By preventing a number of questions, I will briefly speak about this complex understanding here. Firstly, the report by the working group and several analyses and the results of the state examination have given us an initial insight into the situation in upper secondary schools, where this spring the first young people who had studied at least 60% of the subjects in Estonian graduated. We see, as has also been pointed out, that the level of schools is very different. However, if the aim has been to improve the knowledge of the Estonian language of the gymnastics of Russian-speaking schools, it must be said that in these three years the average result of the state exams has not substantially improved. When, in 2011, three years ago, this was, I do not say an accurate figure of about 72%, then 73% in 2014. It is not so simple, however, but it is much more nuanced. If we look behind these average results, we will see that in many schools Estonian language skills have improved considerably. There are about one third of schools where Estonian language skills have improved. During these three years, a third of schools have remained more or less the same on the basis of the results of the Estonian language exam, with a difference of some percentages. At the same time, in the weaker third of schools, the average result of the Estonian language exam has deteriorated considerably. What conclusions to draw from this will be discussed in the future. We also found serious problems in the competence and competence of teachers. The simplest example: more than 50 teachers who teach in Estonian at upper secondary school have not themselves acquired the required C1 level of proficiency in Estonian, their level is lower, whereas 15 of them have a B1 level of language proficiency which is lower than the language proficiency level of many students graduating from primary school. The problems with teaching materials have really been up for a long time. We can say that there is a wider concern in Estonia with educational materials. The teaching materials are generally in a very difficult and abstract language, as is said by the teachers of Estonian schools with a language of instruction. If these same materials are used to teach Russian-language children in upper secondary school, you can imagine what this means. The most important concern, of course, is that although graduates of basic schools in Russian must achieve B1 proficiency according to the curriculum, a whole third of the students will not achieve this level and a third of the schools will not achieve B1 level in more than half of the students. It is clear that school leaders, teachers and students themselves have pointed out that with such language skills it is difficult to learn subjects in Estonian to say the least. Speaking of the formality of this transition, it has to be said that the working group has indeed identified a number of distinctive cases. It has happened that a working group member with Estonian native language visited the class but had to admit that, unfortunately, he did not understand what the teacher spoke in Estonian. The teacher ate all the words because he didn't know them, he only knew the strains of words. The overall summary of all the group's visits is that the teaching in Estonian is considerably more passive in nature than in the mother tongue. Teachers have usually prepared the Estonian-language lesson notes either on paper or as a PowerPoint slide, which is read to students. The intra-class interaction, the interaction between the teacher and the student, the encouragement of which we see as one of the main objectives of the lifelong learning strategy, was often limited to the questions of 'yes' or 'no'. This did not allow the members of the working group to actually assess the extent to which these students understand the content of the learning offered. The situation in basic school is that over 1000 hours of teaching Estonian as a second language, and the majority of basic schools in Russian teach certain subjects in Estonian. But as I said, a third of children don't even get a B1 level. At the same time, linguists have shown that language learning is significantly more effective at a younger age. It may not be wise to draw a precise age line today, even though it has been offered to do so by about 11 or 12 years of age. But most researchers agree that the older the child, the more abstract the language learning becomes. Studies have shown that in older age language learning is clearly correlated with the overall academic capacity. Perhaps young people or adults who are more capable are also learning languages. At the same time, in the younger age group, in the early years of comprehensive school, this correlation between general capacity and language acquisition does not exist. School leaders, teachers and also students have clearly found that we should put a much greater emphasis on improving the skills of the Estonian language in primary school. I agree with this proposal, and that is what I have been thinking of when I have said that we have started the wrong way up to now with the Russian school. My complex plan, which was also presented last week, is based on three pillars. Firstly, it is a concrete action plan and provides for state support to improve the proficiency of Estonian in primary school. We have offered a total of 10 measures in the Ministry with a total volume of 11 million euros up to 2020, or nearly 2 million euros per year, in order to make a decisive improvement in the skills of the Estonian language. The most important of these measures is the renewal of the syllabus for studying Estonian as a second language, in order to be clearer about the use of communicative language learning methods, while at the same time creating digital learning resources to make language learning more interactive. Unfortunately, the quality of Estonian as a second language textbook leaves many schools to be desired. There is a need for systematic language training for teachers, supported by a language methodology, in order to develop the specific language competence specifically required by the teacher. Training for weaker school teams and the promotion of non-formal language learning through multicultural youth work is needed and language immersion needs to be expanded both in kindergartens and comprehensive schools. I recommend that this in-depth analysis and the measures envisaged be consulted once again on the website of the Ministry of Education. The second pillar envisages increasing the demand for Estonian language skills in curricula. Currently, B1 level is required by the curriculum at the end of the comprehensive school. As has been said, a third of students do not even achieve this. However, school leaders and other educators are convinced that B1 level is not sufficient in order to study high quality in Estonian at upper secondary school level, which requires at least B2 level language skills. Thus, by increasing the demand for Estonian language skills in curricula, by replacing the requirement in basic school to acquire a level B1, with the requirement to acquire a level B2 and C1 instead of a secondary school B2, we could move one step closer to where we really want to go, or improve the proficiency of the Estonian language. The majority of Estonian teachers say that a higher level cannot be achieved. I say he can. This is, in my view, such an important objective that it simply needs to be achieved. If the measures we have proposed are not sufficient, then please, I am waiting for further ideas, but let us do this. Thirdly, just as we do not fix in law, how many hours is it necessary to teach mathematics in order to learn it, but to set out the learning outcomes we want in the curriculum, so we should also be able to learn the Estonian language. Of course, in the Republic of Estonia, Estonian language is usually the language of instruction in both primary and upper secondary schools, and no one plans to change that language. However, we must give school leaders the opportunity to decide on the extent to which subjects are taught at school in Estonian and in Russian. It's the headmaster who knows the level of his students. He also knows the state of the faculty, which subjects there are good teachers to teach in the school, who teach in the Estonian language, but which subjects are taught by good teachers who teach in the Russian language. According to this model, the head of the school must be responsible for ensuring that children receive both a good education and the required level of proficiency in the Estonian language. In order to verify this, we will establish a national system for assessing school leaders. It can therefore be said that the formal percentage requirement should be replaced by a requirement for a substantive result, together with a verification mechanism. At the same time, this would not mean that the study in Estonian could disappear at all. Firstly, it is considered useful by all parties if it takes place in a high-quality manner. Quality means that teachers have a sufficient level of knowledge of the Estonian language and are methodically strong in teaching multilingual students, and high-quality teaching materials are available for teaching in Estonian. Those schools that have shown good results in the last three years will certainly continue to teach in Estonian on the same scale. Why wouldn't they do that when they've gotten results? At the same time, it is my proposal that the four subjects that have been required since 2007 be mandatory in the upper secondary school curriculum: Estonian history, Estonian literature, social studies and music teaching. However, geography should be excluded from this list, since many students have lost their results in this subject. The 2013 study "Two language studies in Russian-language school" of Tallinn University says that 44% of students believe that they do not understand what is happening in geography lessons rather than at all. Students with a very strong degree of participation in student focus groups claimed that their knowledge of the subject has suffered greatly as a result of studying geography in Estonian. The authors of the study consider that the transition to teaching in Estonian in geography lessons was poorly prepared. In conclusion, there is therefore a need for more demanding results, more responsibility for the head of school and less formal precepts at the level where there is less pedagogical competence. Now I will also answer those questions that have not yet been answered. 'What do you think are the reasons why the transition of Russian-language schools to Estonian-language education has not achieved its objectives? ' As I said, the average level of proficiency in the Estonian language has not increased significantly based on the test results, but it should not be drawn prematurely. There are schools where the transition has taken place in a high-quality manner and the results have improved. There are schools where the results have either remained the same or become worse. The reasons are very simple, as I said: the language skills of students and teachers and the quality of teaching materials. The second question: 'Teachers and students are not satisfied with existing teaching materials in Estonian... For what reasons are suitable educational materials not provided for schools with Russian language of instruction? " Certain materials, however, are guaranteed. For all subjects that are required to be taught in Estonian, dictionaries explaining the subject have been published. A total of 15 school dictionaries were published between 2005 and 2009, for example in history, biology, physics, geography, chemistry, social science and mathematics. All schools with Russian language of instruction have received them free of charge.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U57	Mr Minister, the point now is that the time laid down in the Rules of Procedure to reply to an inquiry is up. Fortunately, the heirs have questions. My suggestion is that if there is something that has not been said at the moment, it can be said in the course of answering the questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! The learning process is usually creative and depends very heavily on everything topical. It's really a creative process. Dogmatism, inherent in medieval learning or Chinese officials, should have nothing to do with it. How do you feel about the fact that 60% of the ratio between Estonian and Russian was definitely pushed through: 40%? How do you feel about this distribution?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U59	Thank you. Legally speaking, 60%: 40% in law simply means that the school's language of instruction is the language in which at least 60% of student studies take place. According to the same law, in the Republic of Estonia the language of instruction is Estonian, both in primary schools and in upper secondary schools, unless an exception has been requested and the language of instruction is another language. As far as the substance of your question is concerned, as I said, we must remember what has been our aim and what will continue to be our aim. The aim is for Russian-language children to receive a good level of education and, at the same time, to acquire a high level of proficiency in the Estonian language. I have said and said today, too, that I believe that there are significantly more effective means of achieving this objective than has been used so far. As linguists and development psychologists say, language learning should place greater emphasis on students of a younger age, or primary school, especially at its first stages. In this sense, too, it is clear that if the class is faced with a teacher who must teach any subject in the Estonian language, but he does not speak the Estonian language on an adequate level, it certainly does not provide the students with either a knowledge of the subject or a better knowledge of the Estonian language. I'd say it's not an education at all. What is it, I don't know. As a result, as I said, it would be necessary to decisively improve the teaching of Estonian in primary school, the responsibility of the head of school to achieve learning outcomes should be increased, the demands on schools to improve their skills in the Estonian language should be increased and school leaders checked so that these learning outcomes can be achieved. What kind of subjects are taught in what language is taught is left to the head of teachers and school leaders as teachers' collectives, based on the pedagogical aspect of how to ensure the best language skills while ensuring a good education. I recall that the aim is not a percentage, but a proper language skills and a good education.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U60	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U61	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister, thank you for another review. I was just thinking about the report. But I would like to remind you that almost all the points of pain you presented today were already presented during the previous Riigikogu membership, when we discussed the draft amendment of the PGS for a year and a half and more. You also know who forcefully imposed that these problems were not solved once and for all. Now, in four years' time, we have to deal with them again. But I have a very specific question. You have a month to work as a minister. What are you going to do this month in the direction where you are competent to act as minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U62	Thank you. That's a good question. I can now answer the question posed by Mr Korb when he asked the question: what has been done so far, or what has been implemented? Counting. Firstly, with the help of the teacher's language learning and language methodology, the adult language training programme, which is currently being coordinated between the authorities, will be signed by me very soon. This action can begin in essence right now. Secondly, training of school teams in schools with the weakest Estonian language skills. There are now seven school action plans underway, and this year another ten schools will have an action plan on how to improve the situation. Next, upgrade of study materials, including the creation of digital learning resources. With regard to educational resources in general, in the coming weeks, the working group that I have invited will meet, including specialists from Innove and the Ministry of Education, as well as practitioners from school, to find out what educational solutions are needed to teach Russian-language young people in Estonian. I see they're smiling at it in the hall. Indeed, I can't tell you why we've only come to that now. Well, there have been some reasons for that. As regards the creation of digital learning resources for more interactive teaching of the Estonian language as a second language, the so-called digital learning material programme has a total of nearly 40 million euros up to 2020 to create new digital learning tools. I'll sign that too in the next few days. After that, it will give priority to creating a new interactive and high-quality learning resource to learn Estonian as a second language. We're planning a number of other activities that start this year. For example, there is the promotion of the best innovative, innovative language learning techniques and methodological guidance in schools. The analysis has made it very clear that if language learning takes place only in a language class, in a formal environment, its effectiveness is significantly less than that of real people-to-people relations between Russian and Estonian youth. Such relationships give rise to motivation to use language, and language skills develop considerably. The importance of this fact is clearly demonstrated by the fact that in Ida-Virumaa there is a significantly lower number of daily Estonian language usage than in Tallinn, for example, and the results are also different. That is why this year we are launching a programme of so-called youth meetings, which has been allocated EUR 185000, so that almost 2 000 young people can meet each other mostly this summer. Half of them should be native Estonian and half Russian. Smaller groups, for example, go to the Energy Discovery Centre or Ahhaa Centre, where they spend a few days in joint activities. In parallel, contacts and links will be strengthened, which I hope will be maintained after the end of this project, and on the other hand, language skills will develop. At the same time, we extend the student exchange so that young people with Russian language can study in a school with Estonian language for a few weeks and vice versa. On a smaller scale, this is already happening between schools, but it certainly needs to be made more systematic and more extensive. We have planned at least 400 student exchanges a year, and I do not remember the exact number of money, but some EUR 50000 has been planned for it. Activities such as extending the language immersion programme to new kindergartens and schools are ongoing, and will continue this year. We will start by updating the curriculum of Estonian as a second language, which is a slightly longer process, but we will work in this direction. As regards the most important changes to the requirements of the curriculum, increasing the responsibility and freedom of school leaders, they require either an amendment to the curriculum or to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, or both. Of course, this is no longer feasible in the remaining period, I mean that it will take at least several months to coordinate, plus the time during which the procedure will take place in the Riigikogu. Unfortunately, your hours are running out before this, but this, I think, isn't exactly a big problem. In my opinion, this is a well-thought-out and analysed complex solution, a real measure that will ultimately produce a result. I am positive that the next government will take these proposals seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U63	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I am most interested in the answer to the fourth question of our inquiry. But you just answered that question in the media today. On the Russian-speaking portal of Delfi, I read your statement that 60% of the system: 40% must be abandoned in Russian schools. That's what my question is about. When's this gonna happen? On what date will this system be abandoned? You have almost two months to work. Will you be able to do this within this time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U65	Thank you. First of all, you could have read the Estonian Päevaleht last Thursday, then you would have received the same information more quickly. But it doesn't matter, the information is still the same, no matter what language it's presented. As members of the Riigikogu, you certainly know very well how long it takes for the process of amending the law to take the Riigikogu. Furthermore, in the last year, I have come as a surprise how long it will take to deal with the drafts at government level with two rounds of coordination. Such a significant change would most likely require a development plan, which will prolong the process by about half a year. So it is clear that there is no plan to amend the law for the remaining month and a half, because it is not realistic. I don't think that makes any sense either. Let us not make this a matter of election. The subject is extremely important and requires well-considered and in-depth discussions and decisions. I have put forward a proposal before that the situation in comprehensive school and upper secondary school has been thoroughly examined. With things that need a quicker solution, which can be carried out from the Ministry of Education's own resources and the Ministry's sole decision, we have begun. We'll start with other activities on the run. But really, the question is not that we want to do something quickly and quickly before the elections, but that is that we can really look at this situation and see where we have come from. Please analyse and comment on the proposals that the Ministry of Education and I have made, and we will agree on how we will proceed together for a common goal. This common goal is not a formal percentage, but it is a good education and a good level of knowledge of the Estonian language of Russian-speaking young people.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U66	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U67	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In the opinion of many who work in schools and in your ministry, the results of this report, to be honest, were not new, all of which were mentioned several years earlier. But I will see that this report is completed in September. It would have made more sense if you had come up with your proposals in September or October when we discussed the budget lines. It would make sense for these points to receive financial support as early as next year. You haven't done that. You came out with them in January, and now you're telling me we're gonna do it in 2015. So why didn't you do it right away and come up with your proposals on Estonian-language education in Russian schools only in January?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U68	Thank you. As a result of the re-setting of the Ministry of Education's own priorities, the vast majority of measures which have claimed additional funding have been financed. This money has been found outside the budget and would have been found in September. Indeed, I had a strong ambition and a desire to come before the public and before Parliament with this complete package and with these proposals. The members of the Committee on Culture will certainly remember my words at the committee meeting in May that I expect these proposals to be ready by September. The deadline for this analysis was the beginning of September. But there were a number of things that happened. Firstly, this report, which was submitted, was a little late, or late for almost a month, and it took longer than expected to be written together. Secondly, more in-depth analysis was needed of the results of the 2014 State Examinations. At the same time, as I said, there were several parallel analyses in the work: one on learning resources and the other on the performance of teacher training. It's true, their completion slowed down as well. The main reason, however, was that the main recommendation of this working group's report was to improve Estonian language learning in primary school, but the focus of the working group was actually largely excluded from primary school; their aim was to analyse the situation in upper secondary school. Since the main recommendations of both this and several previous studies were to improve the effectiveness of Estonian language learning in primary school, I considered it right not to come up with some incomplete solution, but to really thoroughly analyse the situation in primary school and to provide real measures for primary school. This analysis was prepared essentially in December, say, between Christmas and New Year's. As soon as it could be presented in public, so quickly it could be done. If you open this analysis and suggestions on the Ministry's website to improve the effectiveness of Estonian-language learning in a comprehensive school that has about 30 pages, you will see how thorough and scientific work the Department of Analysis has done in cooperation with other departments in order to get as precise a picture as possible. The real picture is necessary to provide accurate and effective measures. If we don't have a proper analysis, we're gonna talk the exact same way about the gut feeling that we're gonna put it there or lift it there. These things, however, are designed to really work. It requires a little more thorough reflection, which has also been done. But nothing has stopped, compared to if this analysis had been presented, for example, in November.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U69	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U70	Thank you. Dear Minister, It is interesting that, according to you, Estonian-language education has proved successful in the subjects where Estonian-language education was passed as early as 2007. There is only one conclusion from this: if, in 2010, a person who has had the same views as you and has turned this transition back, we would not be able to recognise successful education in these subjects today. But my question is about improving education in Estonian in primary school. You say that the law should not determine the number of classes in Estonian, but the head of school should be responsible for ensuring that the result of learning the Estonian language is improved. But how do you guarantee it if there is no compulsory number of lessons and the director is not interested in raising the level? Will measures be taken and these school leaders get fired? What is their responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U71	Thank you. I will also respond to the comment. I have not said that in subjects where education in Estonian is compulsory, education is of high quality. First of all, there are serious problems with geography. This study, to which I referred, also highlighted concerns about teaching history. But I referred in my own words to the fact that schools have broadly been able to provide a sufficient level of good pedagogies for the quality teaching of these subjects. In order to teach these subjects in Estonian, it has also been possible to help with the Estonian language skills acquired in comprehensive school. Schools themselves have said that they believe that in these four subjects they can do more or less quality teaching, although, as I said, there are concerns about teaching history in many schools. For many schools, however, the quality of teaching these four subjects is also a very difficult task, given the level of their students. If we see that in a third of schools more than half of students do not achieve B1, it is clear that social education, Estonian literature or the history of Estonia are not easy subjects for these students. What was the question again? [[The cavalry.]] Yes, the model for assessing school leaders is essentially developed, the draft is prepared at the Ministry. Its main content is that the Commission, consisting of specialists from the Ministry of Education, the School Leaders' Association and national self-government associations, would provide all school leaders with periodic feedback on their work, how the educational objectives are achieved, and recommendations on how this can be done better. Indeed, if the results are poor and the objectives are not achieved, the Commission will propose that the head of school be released. This is certainly a very strong signal in the local community when the national commission has considered the head of school to be incompetent. As a result, parents make their decisions when choosing a child's school. However, if this school or municipality continues with the same head of school and basically nothing changes, it is in principle possible, according to the administrative procedure law already in force, to initiate the withdrawal of the training permit. That is, if there are really very serious violations over a long period of time. I do not think we need to take such extreme measures. Most school leaders are committed and certainly consider the achievement of educational learning outcomes as their most important goal, including improving the skills of the Estonian language. This is proven by the fact that most Russian-language comprehensive schools teach certain subjects in Estonian. It has not been a national coercion, they have done so because they have seen that if they teach in Estonian of a high quality, it will produce good results. But only if it is done with real quality. I see no reason why it should not continue in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U72	Now Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U73	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear Minister, You've pointed out that we need an analysis. I say this in a reply, but I am quite convinced that many children who speak Estonian as their native language at home do not understand the mathematics assignments in Estonian either, as there is such a complicated language. But my question is about some examples where bilingual schools have implemented the transition to the Estonian language. These have been more basic schools, such as the Beyond the Mountain. Has the Ministry analyzed such good examples and looked at what is good there? Has the education system of northern neighbours, such as Finland, been analysed how they can make their national language very clear to people in other languages?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U74	Thank you. Of course. As far as teaching materials are concerned, at the beginning of my answers, I referred to this, perhaps you were not in the hall then, that the language of teaching materials is very complicated and abstract for students with Estonian native language as well. I'm sure that's a wider concern. As far as the practice of language learning is concerned, as I said, there are all kinds of examples in Estonia, there are more positive and there are more negative examples. There are schools that have been able to achieve very good results by teaching subjects in Estonian, there are schools that have long applied the language immersion method and achieved good results, there are schools that have achieved exceptionally good results using the bilingual methodology, etc. Birute Klaas-Lang has analysed in essence and in great depth in its study, which distinguishes those schools that have shown good results from those schools that have shown poorer results. These reasons are quite complex. One reason for this is that in larger cities such as Tallinn and Narva, where most Russian-speaking schools are located, students are to some extent selected, just as it is in Estonian-speaking schools in Tallinn. More capable students go to some schools, less capable of others. In better schools, the ability to speak Estonian is also better. This analysis, which I once again very warmly recommend to read, clearly shows the correlation between the student's overall academic success and his or her proficiency in the Estonian language. The analysis highlights what I have already said that the upper secondary school level has a direct connection with the acquisition of the Estonian language of children of this age or any foreign language of that age. Figuratively speaking, those who are good at mathematics are also good in Estonian. If we're looking at younger children, first grades of primary school, or, more importantly, kindergarten, there's this correlation, there's no connection. Even those who are less capable can learn the language nicely. That is why I have said that this path, which has been chosen by writing down certain percentages in upper secondary school, does not make any sense in terms of development psychologically. Teaching the Estonian language must be enhanced in primary school and then the upper secondary school level will no longer be a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U75	Minister, thank you. There are no more questions. I'm opening negotiations. I'm sorry! Mr Efendiev, only one oral question can be asked. I'm opening negotiations. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U76	Mr President! At first, a few words for my colleague, Kisler. He had a very good question about why this transition and language learning was seemingly successful in 2007, but after that it was not so successful. But then, every year, they went step by step, one course after another. Physical education classes were started, which began to take place in Estonian, then working classes started to be in Estonian, then music lessons or singing lessons or what they were called. But then the subjects that could make fun of it began to end. Then serious things began to come and it turned out that Estonian was more difficult than 'right turn', 'run' or similar words. But that's it. Really, I never thought this hall would get so optimistic. This optimism is due today to the fact that I can see how progress has been made. It's taken me 14-15 years, but in the name of progress, I have absolutely nothing to regret. I am also very pleased that the Chairman of the IX Riigikogu Committee on Culture is here today. Mart certainly remembers how often we discussed the same language issue and transition. In 1999 and 2000, either I alone or with Kreitzberg or Velman came five or six times with the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school, and we discussed it very long in the Commission. Everyone wanted to enhance Estonian language learning in Russian school, but everyone had different ideas. At that time, the basic understanding was the same as today, simply the transition to Estonian-language learning and everything. This was only confused by the fact that no one understood how it was possible to transfer the Russian school to Estonian-language education, 15 years ago it was not technically possible, and it is still impossible. Then the moderates came to help. I will explain to the Minister because he may not know that those who then were moderate are now social democrats. The moderate and current social democrat, Marju Lauristin, invented a super thing like 60%: 40%. This flash of thought was so great that this idea was grasped. I remember that nobody really wanted to think about what happens when there is 50%: 50%, is there no language of instruction at school. There were a dozen little problems that we were always discussing. So he went and went and then the government changed. Then it really went into debate. It was attended by professionals, children, teachers' representatives. It came to the conclusion that we are going in the direction that upper secondary school will be converted to Estonian-language education. But we have reached a consensus on the notion that one thing is needed in order to carry out this transition: a child must understand what is being explained to him in high school. It can't be that he sits behind the dictionary for longer than the textbook. This means that at the level of primary school you need to get solid knowledge in Estonian, iron knowledge, and for this it is necessary to change the teaching system in primary school. This needs to be dealt with seriously. Secondly, in order for the transition to take place, it is necessary for the teacher to master the Estonian language perfectly. Not the way it turned out today. Lukas and Aaviksoo can, of course, be delighted because Russian gymnasium has disappeared. If 50 upper secondary school teachers speak at B1 level... No, 15, the other 35 had a B2 level. After all, they teach children, they shouldn't have C1, but they should have C2. They should understand perfectly not only Estonian but also Russian. Point three. The transition is possible when the children are ready, the teachers are ready and there are educational materials available. That's what we've been talking about. I remember samples of teaching materials were brought from Finland and Canada. There are Finnish and Swedish together, English and French. These educational tools contain a simplified text, alongside the vocabulary in the student's native language. There's no banging, is there? The psychology of the speaker is taken into account; at a certain point it is necessary to speak a slightly flawed language to a person, because languages have different logic. It was all set back then. But then it turned out an interesting thing that makes tonight much less optimistic than I said at the beginning. It turned out that if, for example, at the end of primary school, students were to learn Estonian in such a way that they could study in that language in upper secondary school, not just sit in a dull class, then they would need to be taught the language according to another system. But the system was something like the one I saw on my son, who was then a seventh grader. She made me give her humanitarian aid to help the baby, it's been sitting there for several hours. I started to see what he was learning there. The text in the textbook was about a 19th century Estonian farm, where one in five words was unknown to me, although I think I have a pretty good Estonian language. And the kids have to learn that! It led us to wonder what they were doing, either to talk or to become a 19th - century agricultural specialist. It turned out that there was no desire or ability to prepare suitable textbooks or teachers who could teach in primary school. Then we started talking about another subject. I will tell those who do not know that I am an Estonian teacher. I have a colleague in Narva, Heli Adamovich, manager of a great kindergarten, now he's the director. It's the only kindergarten in Narva where there's a competition where children are written two years before they're brought there. There, children are taught Estonian in such a way that no child in the first or second grade or in the older classes will have any problems. You have no idea how many ministers and members of the Riigikogu, even the people of the National Audit Office and others, I have taken there and shown you that there is a solution to the problem. So the talk that we're talking about right now is for the poor. It is likely to take another 14 or 15 years before it is understood that kindergarten education is needed. But certain progress exists, so we enjoy it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U77	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U78	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not as optimistic as the previous speaker. Perhaps I have been too little in the Riigikogu, if I had been here longer, then perhaps there would have been more optimism. I want to be more specific and reminded. In the previous composition, when we, as I said earlier, discussed the renewed PGS for more than a year and a half, more or less all the threats and questions that the Minister formulated today were in the proceedings either in the Commission or in this Chamber, as it were, but they were spoken of. As I have said before, we know whose powerful action actually removed the problems of Russian schools from the PGS. Now, in a different way, it turned out like another topicality. Of course, I have no doubt about that, and I think that my fellow Members too have no doubt that this issue and today's appearance are absolutely not linked to the election period. Of that I'm sure. On the other hand, I can say that the fact that the Minister brought out the problem is positive. But since he pointed it out one and a half months before the elections, it is negative, because there is no coalition and government position here, neither is the budget nor the other things necessary for implementation. Of course, Amendment PGS. I have no optimism here. The previous speaker said that in 15 years we will all be ready for the changeover, but maybe tomorrow we will have some very important topical point. I figured whoever's responsible for the minus is the headmaster. This may not be the best option, because if it is the headmaster or the municipality, then there is a question for which the Ministry is responsible. The ministry has to take responsibility, and there's a way to fix the cons. What the Ministry is going to do to resolve the issues that have been raised, we did not hear here today. It's not just the director. The question is how the state intends to deal with this, how much resources to put there and how these resources I mean to develop teachers and bring more into schools. But it's not right now. Once Minister Lukas agreed. When we look at the verbatim and the protocols, we see that he said that there is no resource in Ida-Virumaa, and he also talked about what needs to be done. After the election, it was all forgotten. When these questions were asked during the composition of this Riigikogu to the previous coalition and the current coalition, the answer was just one: only within the framework of the budget. The proposals that were formulated today cannot in any way inspire optimism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U79	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U80	We are going to the fourth inquiry by Riigikogu members Jaak Aaviksoo, Priit Sibul, Erki Nool, Kaia Iva and Andrus Saare. The request for information was submitted on 12 January 2015. This is for the language of instruction and is number 454. Reply by Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, Andrus Saare, to introduce the inquiry to the public!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U81	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, It is unfortunately not just pre-election propaganda, but a dangerous and populist game with Estonian language and culture, that the flag of the Social Democrats is floating in the language issue in the direction of blowing the wind. Last week, in Question Time, Mr. Mikser asked Mr. Mikser about the party's position on the national language and education policy. Unfortunately, what we heard from Sven Mikser was, in short, unexplained dim. Reading the Russian Delfi today will also clarify why the chairman of the Sots was dim. The message that the Minister of Education and Science of Delfis said out is, to put it mildly, startling, but I am familiar with history. This is rhetoric, which so far has only been represented by the Centre Party in Tallinn for many years, i.e. a constant confrontation with the current national language and integration policy. Now the Social Democrats have jumped into the same boat. The Minister points out that 60% of the transition to Estonian-language education in Russian schools must be abandoned and the Russian language should be taught more and more effectively in Estonian schools. Perhaps the minister will directly oppose the nations, starting to 'defend' the Russian minority. This is a clear desire to contrast nationalities, which has not been done so far, at least at government level. The involvement of different nationalities in the pre-election struggle is not the minister's state-manlike behaviour, but it is a genuine demonstration of the true face of the social democrats on the issue of language. The king is naked now. We inquisitors have four questions that I will read quickly. Does your party or the Ministry of Education and Research intend to amend the current basic school and upper secondary school law as regards the transition to partial state-language education in Russian-speaking upper secondary schools? When and to what extent is the transition to partial national language education in comprehensive schools and childcare facilities planned? What other legal changes have you planned in the area of national language learning in other language educational institutions? What is the reason for your different approaches to the status of the state language in Estonian and Russian media? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U82	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Education and Science, Jevgeni Ossinovski, to the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U83	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will also answer the previous speaker in the same way as the previous respondents. In Estonia, there is a newspaper like Eesti Päevaleht. You don't have to try to find what I've been saying in the Russian Delph. I think that it will be much easier for you, whose native language is Estonian, to find it in the Estonian Päevaleht, for example in the previous Thursday issue. I will begin by answering the fourth question. I understand that the elections are coming, and it is particularly exciting to be intrigued by someone saying one thing to some voters and another to other voters. I have not done so, and neither has our party ever done so. Read this Eesti Päevaleht number, compare it with Delfis or any Russian-language material with the same content. The desire to see things as you see them certainly speaks of certain psychological mechanisms that will work before the elections, especially for candidates. I read once the posts of the previous Minister of Education on Facebook, it was about a few months ago, to see what Ossinovski writes in the Russian Postimees! But in the Russian Postimees, a translation of the article appeared in my Estonian Postimees. It is very difficult for me to answer that question. Just as we have permanent positions on various issues, so we have explained them to all voters in the same way. Another comment on the content of your inquiry. You claim that under the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the transition to partial state-language education was completed in 2011. In fact, however, it was completed in 2014 and not in 2011. Now I will answer your questions. 'Does your party or the Ministry of Education and Research intend to amend the current basic school and upper secondary school law as regards the transition to partial state-language education in Russian-speaking upper secondary schools? ' Perhaps you were not in the Chamber during my introductory speech to answer the previous question. I'm not going to read it again, though, it's possible to look it up in the verbatim. It basically describes the current situation we have reached on the issue of the Russian school. This situation is actually quite sad. We should acknowledge this to ourselves instead of trying to hide our various educational failures behind the political slogans. As for this plan, which was proposed last Wednesday and which was also written by the Estonian Päevaleht of last Thursday, before I say it again in Russian Delfi, this complex plan is very simple. We've gotten off on the wrong foot. We need to put greater emphasis on improving Estonian language skills in comprehensive school and real action is needed. In reply to Mr Efendiev's accusation, I say yes, indeed, it is necessary for the state to provide additional money, and that is what we have done. Until 2020, we consider it necessary to contribute some EUR 11 million to this area. Most of these proposals are already being implemented. On the other hand, there is a need to increase the demand for schools to learn Estonian. Today's B1 level, required by the national curriculum of comprehensive school and upper secondary school, is not sufficient. This is acknowledged by both school leaders and other educational professionals. It is regrettable that this plan has not been in place so far, it has only been said that this could be the case in the future. In my opinion, this is an unwillingness to resolve these issues in substance. Somewhere in the law, the percentage is fixed, and let it be, we can report that it's moving in the right direction. Don't move! In some schools, learning in Estonian has really improved the results, I have said this several times here today. Teachers, school leaders, as well as students, say that education in Estonian is positive if it takes place in a quality manner. However, if one third of students do not reach B1 level at the end of primary school, and one third of Russian-speaking primary schools do not achieve B1 level, then we can say that these students do not speak Estonian in essence. In this case, how do you consider it possible to teach them subjects at upper secondary school level in Estonian? That's what I've been talking about from the beginning: started from the wrong end. That's right. In fact, this has been acknowledged by the previous Minister Jaak Aaviksoo, who has said the following words from this same remote: 'If we have a problem with language skills, a problem with national language skills, then this problem must be solved at the level of basic school. Actually, I should start with kindergarten. That, in its time, a different approach was chosen, I don't think it was the smartest. " That is what Jaak Aaviksoo has said. Golden words, but for some reason, in recent years, basic school has not been wanted to be practiced in practice; instead, the percentage has been formally written into the law. We see that the transition has taken place formally. In some places it has also taken place in essence, there is no problem, where quality is guaranteed, it will continue in the same way. But if we do not recognise that the knowledge of the Estonian language in Russian schools is poor, nor are we looking for ways to improve the skills of the Estonian language on the one hand and ensure that these young people have proper educational opportunities on the other, it is irresponsible in my opinion. Therefore, the second part of the plan is to increase the demand for schools, not to reverse or relax. Demand must be increased, but output-based! We also do not say in the mathematics curriculum how many hours the subject must be taught, but we demand that the result be there. So how do we learn here how many hours are needed to teach a subject? This, however, is decided by the teacher depending on the class, on how good he is, on the abilities of the students, on the number of children with special needs involved in the class, etc. Thirdly, it is the head of school who is responsible for the effectiveness of learning. This direction was taken during the previous government, and I think it is the right direction. There is a need to increase the responsibility of the head of school, and to increase his freedom in order to achieve the objectives of education and training. He must have the freedom to do so, but he must have the responsibility. The aspect of responsibility has so far been virtually lacking. A system has already been developed to allow the state to periodically evaluate school leaders by monitoring the extent to which schools achieve their education and training objectives. If these objectives are not achieved, then the headmaster must be replaced. But the headmaster may say that the school is able to teach one, two and three subjects in Estonian, but the fourth and fifth are not able to do so, but he does foresee different measures and solutions in order to improve the skills of the Estonian language. For example, the school has a friendship school somewhere else in Estonia, there is a student exchange and students speak Estonian. Why do we have to force this headmaster to put a teacher who does not speak Estonian in front of the class to teach students who do not understand the language? This is not education policy! Thus, in answering the question, the provisions of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act relating to the national language are difficult to change in that the language of instruction in both comprehensive school and upper secondary school is the Estonian language and the language of instruction is the language in which at least 60% of the studies take place. However, in order to increase the responsibilities of school leaders and their freedom to choose learning methods, it is indeed necessary to amend the basic school and upper secondary school law. The second question: 'When and to what extent is the transition to partial national language education in basic schools and childcare facilities planned? " For your information, most basic schools in Russian teach certain subjects voluntarily in Estonian, without any national compulsion, and precisely because the teachers and school leaders of these schools are dedicated people who work to ensure that children receive a good education. Good education also includes a very clear knowledge of the Estonian language at a good level. Therefore, these schools have considered it necessary to teach some subjects in Estonian. As I have already mentioned, all parties are saying that if it takes place in a high-quality manner, it will have a positive effect on the knowledge of the Estonian language and, on the other hand, it will not worsen the knowledge of the subject. Thus, most basic schools already receive part of the study in Estonian, i.e. some subjects are taught in Estonian. This occurs when it is pedagogically sound. I believe this practice will continue. Question 3: "What other legal changes have you planned in the area of national language learning in other language educational institutions? " No more can be said about legislative changes, but in order to increase the demand for schools, it is necessary to amend one of the Government's regulations, as well as the national curricula of primary school and upper secondary school. I have already answered the fourth question concerning your wishful thinking and different approaches to the Estonian and Russian media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U84	Minister, there are questions for you. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U85	Thank you. Dear Minister, Unlike you, I've worked as a teacher and as a schoolmaster. I dare confirm that continuity and stability in education matters are very important. The fact that many decades ago they did not agree to talk a great deal about Estonian-language education in Russian school is known, and this transition to Estonian-language education has been very difficult. It would have been nice if it had been said immediately that yes, we would do it at all levels of study, start from the beginning and do it all nicely. But we know how much opposition it caused. Over the years, persistently demandingness has finally been achieved by being ready now to speak very seriously about the need to start earlier and to do so thoroughly. Perhaps some kind of consensus will be born. Do you see how much damage you're doing right now by turning on your head and rubbing off?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U86	Oh, on the contrary, I'm in the right direction. As I have said, as you have confirmed, and as many researchers have confirmed, learning a foreign language is much easier at a younger age than at an old age. Something happens later in human cognitive abilities. This age limit varies according to researchers, from 11 to 12 years of age. I guess it's different on an individual basis. Clearly, learning a foreign language at an older age is clearly linked to a person's overall academic ability. There is no link between children at a younger age, even children with weaker academic abilities acquire a foreign language if it is taught in the first secondary schools or also in kindergartens, as we actually do, because in all Estonian kindergartens, Estonian language education is known to be compulsory from the age of four. I would like to stress once again that education in Estonian, when conducted in a quality manner, has been a voluntary choice of schools, as school leaders and educators have sincerely wanted their students to acquire both the knowledge of the subject and the knowledge of the Estonian language. As a result, several comprehensive schools have switched to Estonian-language education in some subjects. It has not caused any tension there, and it has clearly improved learning outcomes. When we talk about upper secondary school, as I said, one third of schools have improved, about one third have remained more or less the same, and the third has become worse. I see no reason why successful schools should not continue with the same curriculum as they have had so far if it has produced good results. But in those schools where, because of this formal percentage imposed nationally, not because of the requirement, but because of its formal percentage, there is a teacher in front of the class who knows only the trunks of words and does not know the ending of words, I really think that this process should be reversed. This is not my opinion of education. It does not provide good knowledge of the subject, as I have demonstrated to you from studies, in particular in geography, where very strong students say that their knowledge of the subject has been severely affected, nor do they, of course, provide a good level of proficiency in the Estonian language when a teacher who does not speak the Estonian language at an adequate level gives a lesson in Estonian. Fifty-six teachers don't even have C1, 15 of them have B1. So it's not a question of head-on or back, or it doesn't know where to turn. The question is that the problem we have is essentially to be resolved. This problem is Estonian language skills in primary school. If we solve this problem with the substantive measures that I have proposed, then there will be no more concern in high school. But right now we've come to a situation where this formal percentage has been written up at upper secondary school level, and now we're going to say that, oh, we should have done something in middle school. In my opinion, this is not a sensible approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U87	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U88	Thank you. Teaching the Estonian language in depth and effectively in comprehensive school is in the right direction in any case, and we have not expressed any other way. You also read Aaviksoo's message, which we all support. But right now, you seem like an elephant in a porcelain store. If we are now able to improve the quality of education in comprehensive school, it is not necessary to lower the bar in upper secondary school, because the easier it is for students to jump over it. Why do you break everything you have instead of supplementing and building on what we have?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U89	Thank you. First of all, I'm not breaking anything. Do I have to say for the fifth time that the choice and will of schools and parents has been in Estonian subject learning, if it takes place in a quality manner? It's what you want. Read the analysis I have been talking about all night, and you will see that Russian-speaking parents are very concerned about the level of teaching the Estonian language. If subjects are taught in quality in Estonian, they are generally considered positive. There is therefore no reason to believe that those schools that have been able to demonstrate that they are able to improve the level of proficiency in the Estonian language by teaching some subjects in Estonian and at the same time ensuring a good level of knowledge of the subject will not continue exactly the same. Why wouldn't they do that? I don't remember exactly what words you used, but in a situation where we have, I say once again, a third of the schools where more than half of the students do not achieve B1, it's strange to talk about the porcelain shop. I really advise you to go to these schools and look at this porcelain, see how it has affected real educational content, what this class is about, in abstract terms, with some percentages. As regards the content of activities in primary school, yes, it is one thing to say in words that this is an important issue. Another thing is to provide for concrete measures to improve the situation. The situation is not improving by itself. We've seen for 20 years that it doesn't heal by itself. If the state does not create educational materials, the situation will not improve by itself. If there are no new proper teaching tools and a new syllabus to teach the Estonian language better, the situation will not improve. If we do not encourage communication between Estonian and Russian-speaking young people with the state's financial support, there will be no contacts. I'm afraid so. So reclining in a porcelain shop is the same clinging to a tool rather than to a goal, making it some kind of dogma that we are no longer able to see and are not able to recognise the current situation and honestly, not to discuss in a slogan what needs to be done in order to improve the situation. The current situation is, indeed, that the knowledge of the Estonian language of Russian-speaking primary school graduates is not sufficient. I hope that in a few years' time, due to these measures and as a result of increasing the demanding curriculum, those who are currently studying in primary school will acquire a much better level of Estonian language. However, this does not mean that we ignore the current gymnastics, over 3,000 students who are studying in this system and one third of whom do not speak enough Estonian. In a situation where more than 50 teachers do not speak enough Estonian, we cannot say that this system will last so long, although it will be better in the next generations. I think it's irresponsible, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U90	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! There is one question in this question that I am very interested in, as are my colleagues from the IRL. That's question number one. You replied that it is difficult to change the PGS in that it says that the language of instruction is Estonian. I mean, it's hard, it's euphemism, it's a desire not to answer. See how the question is asked: is there a change planned? Can you answer that question, let's say, with the same sentence: PGS... change the part that says that... Insert whether 'change is planned' or 'no change is planned'.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U92	Here is now the question, which means that it is planned. In my opinion, this is necessary. As for the sentence you have referred to, I would like to say that when we are talking about the regulation of the language of instruction, paragraphs 2 and 3 of § 21 of the PGS, I say by memory, one relates to upper secondary school and the other concerns primary school. Paragraph 2 begins: 'The language of instruction in basic school is Estonian,' and paragraph 3 begins: 'The language of instruction in upper secondary school is Estonian. ' These sentences do not need to be changed in my opinion. However, the second sentence of both paragraphs should be amended, i.e. to give greater decision-making power to the headmaster so that he can decide which subjects to teach in which classes in his school and in which language, in which proportion you want, while increasing the demandingness to achieve a higher level of proficiency in the Estonian language. Therefore, if we now have the Government of the Republic as a decision-making level for upper secondary schools, I think that this additional level is strongly political. To quote the previous speaker, it is similar to moving in a porcelain shop. Instead, the right to choose the proportion of teaching specific subjects could be the school manager, who has pedagogical competence and is also responsible for achieving these objectives.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U93	Mart Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U94	Thank you. I remember very well these discussions about 15 years ago when this administrative instrument, or the ratio of 60%, was agreed: 40%. I think everyone in this Chamber agrees that language is taught and taught in school, not administratively, but pedagogically. Some components are needed to achieve pedagogical goals: good teacher, learning environment, teaching method, teaching tools. As the current minister who has been attacked by the IRL, can you tell me how the Ministry of Education has been working on developing these assumptions in these 15 years? This is a broad subject, 15 years is a long time, of which about 12 years have been headed by the Minister of the IRL. Do you have any clues as to how the Ministry has fulfilled these prerequisites for a pedagogical purpose?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U95	I do not want to comment on the motivations, motivations and incidents of previous ministers in the decision-making process. It's up to them. I generally rely on the hope that a good thing has been desired. But I do not know what the reasons for the implementation of the selected measures are quite formalistic and superficial. The same knowledge that we now have that the basic school level, especially in its early years, is much easier to obtain language than in upper secondary school, also existed at that time. The fact that studying in Estonian only in upper secondary school requires a good level of Estonian from primary school has always been known. It's basic and logical. Why, in this situation, the decision has been made to prescribe a formal percentage of process management at upper secondary school level rather than to go into content and provide the necessary support for schools, teachers and children, so that they can gradually, starting from kindergarten, acquire a proper level of Estonian language, it is very difficult for me to understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U96	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U97	Thank you. Good minister! We all understand that this is not about formality or superficiality. As you yourself admitted, some upper secondary schools are excellently taught in Estonian. They are able to find teachers, somehow they have also found the teaching tools that you criticize the absence of. However, there are other schools that are unable to do so for many reasons. Let's face it, some just don't want to, they're defending the Russian school. We know that, actually, that's what this is about. If you take down the requirement to give lessons in Estonian, you will encourage those who defend the Russian school. But here's my question. After all, you have a specific request on the table right now to abolish the requirement that you want to lose here in some schools. How do you intend to resolve the issue of these Narva and Tallinn schools now and now?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U98	Thank you. I will comment on your first comment. Well, it's kind of classic political demagoguery, isn't it? When we see where most Russian-speaking schools are located, they are in Tallinn and Narva. This means that there are several upper secondary schools in both cities, both in Tallinn and in Narva. Similarly, there are several Estonian-language schools right here in Tallinn and it is quite clear that more capable children study at upper secondary school level, often also at primary school level in some schools, and those who are less capable study in other schools. If, as a result of this fact, we were to say that some Estonian-language school wasn't going to name any names anywhere, I don't know, outside the city centre, giving bad education, because their exams were worse than some of the so-called elite schools in the city centre, that would be unfair. After all, elite schools choose students for themselves. The same story is true in Russian-speaking schools. If we take this ranking, see where the Russian-speaking schools that show good results in Estonian are located and look at the results of these students in the rest of the subjects, we will see that the phenomenon is exactly the same. So it is not a question of unwillingness. This unwillingness may be in some so-called social organisations, but I have not seen this unwillingness among teachers or school leaders. I believe that they all work hard for the children they teach and for whom they have to ensure a good future. They are interested in the students taking the exams well and getting into the university; they are interested in improving children's Estonian language skills. Indeed, when it comes to this potential fear, as somebody would say, that the Estonian language is not taught at all in his school, I do not believe that such people exist. The law requires the teaching of Estonian from the first grade, it is reasonable and, of course, it must remain in the law. However, if the school manager is unable to guarantee the objectives of education and education, one of which is a good level of Estonian language skills, on the basis of my proposal, could instead increase the level of demandingness here, then according to this system we could make a professional assessment of these schools. If the head of a school does not really meet the requirements of competence or if his/her school consistently fails to achieve the results in either Estonian or other subject, then of course measures must be taken to ensure that this school is a new and more capable leader. In general, however, schools themselves and parents are concerned that the level of proficiency in the Estonian language is higher, and they have also made efforts to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U99	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U100	Thank you. Honorable Minister! You have spoken here about your ambitious plans to change the education policy so far. In today's Russian Delfis, as one of the political lines, it is proposed to promote the teaching of Russian in Estonian-speaking schools. What concrete actions are you planning to pursue your policy in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U101	Thank you. Excellent question! But first I will answer Mr Kiisler's question, which I forgot to answer earlier, it was about Tallinn's specific applications for exemption for Russian-language upper secondary schools. The Ministry will analyse these applications. As of Friday, specialists had visited the Russian Lyceum of Tallinn City Hill and probably will go to the next school today or tomorrow. By the end of January, an analysis of the situation will be completed. But I would stress that, in fact, this subject is much wider than the situation of these specific schools. The applications of these schools are quite peculiar, and there are not many pedagogical reasons for achieving the objectives. But the legal right to submit these requests is, the Ministry must analyse them and propose to the government in accordance with the legislation in force. Well, we'll see what happens when the tests are done. Now I will answer Mr Reinsalu's question. In fact, unfortunately, in a large number of Estonian schools, foreign languages are taught in schools with both Estonian and Russian language in general in a beautifully poor way. Unfortunately, the structure of many language classes is such that grammar rules are studied, vocabulary is engulfed, and, in good case, the third part of the course is practiced. Perhaps this is not based on the advice of specialists that the language should still be acquired as a communicative, living language, unless we speak the ancient Greek that I, for example, have learned. But when we talk about real, live language, it should be learned by communicative methods. Unfortunately, it's a pretty little thing to do. I have met teachers from both Tallinn University and the University of Tartu on this issue. Both universities have recognised this problem, they take it seriously and they also seek solutions. Let me just give you an example. We have had a situation in teacher training so far, in essence, where we have the Chair of German Teachers and the Chair of English Teachers, but there is not much communication between them. When you study these subjects, you will certainly learn the subtleties of German and English grammar, but what is common to all foreign languages, that is, the pedagogical part of how best to learn a foreign language for students, has so far been a beautiful little. But this is precisely what is most important from the point of view of language learning: how to use such methods to get the language better attached, how to keep and increase students' motivation for language learning, etc. Several international studies have shown, and I am also of the opinion, that the more languages people speak, especially in a small country, the more competitive it is for us as a country and a nation. Several international studies have recognised that our people in general speak a number of foreign languages, which is still quite exceptional in Europe. In my opinion, the biggest question is that a considerable number of hours of learning other languages are provided for studying Estonian, Russian, English and German as foreign languages, too, I do not want to discriminate against anyone, I also teach French and Chinese, but when we look at the results, it has to be said that this activity has often not been very effective. Just today, I met Mait Müntel, the CEO of the start-up in Estonia, who is developing an innovative language learning programme from Lingvis, and I tried to learn some French on the basis of the Estonian language. He claims that by his scientific method, he is able to teach a foreign language at least ten times faster than has been done so far according to school curricula. Unfortunately, you have to admit that the old methodologies are often stuck. In universities, we already admit that we have to teach differently. There are, of course, many teachers who teach very, very well, but, more generally, this practice is unfortunately not yet rooted in our classrooms.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U102	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U103	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Any man who's kicked a ball in the yard since he was a kid turns into a football expert when he becomes a man. He is definitely the one who knows best what kind of coach needs in the national team, what this coach does wrong, what kind of football players are bad, and why they're bad. For exactly the same reason, any person who has studied at school thinks that he or she is an educational expert, even though he or she does not understand even the simplest things. The sentence that there has been a transition in some schools and that things are more or less in order with the Estonian language, but that is not the case in some other schools, is normal and understandable. The Minister has explained that I repeat that everyone who operates in the school system knows that there are schools that have a good reputation, created in 20, 30, 50, sometimes in 100 years. There's a student selection. It is not just average children who need to learn there, but children whose abilities are slightly better than average, and sometimes not a little, but a lot better, and they learn better about chemistry and mathematics, but also languages. Hence, those schools that choose students are in a privileged position. But you don't have to teach the language so that it's only in some elite school that you can learn it. The language needs to be taught so that even the weakest student can have it in his mouth. You don't have to start with the top, you have to start with the base. Now I will remind you who has done what he has done to ensure that Estonian language becomes commonplace throughout Estonia. Narva has done a great deal to do this. In 1989 there were two certified Estonian teachers in the city of Narva. Two for the whole town! There were 13,000 students then, but there were two certified teachers. The economic situation was very poor in the mid-1990s. It was very difficult in Ida-Virumaa at the time, but the Narva Council and the City Government allocated more than 30 apartments to teachers who came to teach Narva Estonian, although there was no obligation to do so and no one gave any money to buy these apartments. They were just given to these people and that was it. This resulted: By the end of the century, there were 102 teachers in Narva schools, even more than necessary. I am referring to teachers with professional qualifications. We have done a lot in this area, but we cannot work for the state, we cannot work for the Ministry of Education. You are here to solve your problems, who love Estonia and Estonians more or who are Russian. We're sitting in the middle here, and I'm thinking, when the fuck is it? In 2005, an official from the Ministry of Education came from Narva; the hunter was his name. I don't remember whether he was a chancellor or a deputy chancellor, but he held a meeting where the school leaders in the hall were together with the directors and lecturers that must now begin the transition. He was asked a simple question. In fact, children don't speak the language, there are no textbooks, there are no teachers. If something goes wrong, who's responsible for all this? Well, the answer was, uh, the one who runs the Ministry of Education at the time, or who works on his place, it's responsible, but he's hoping for a better one. What have you done? What? You are talking about the need to increase the responsibility of school leaders. You already did. Four years ago, school leaders were perfectly aware that their schools were not ready to switch to Estonian-language education. But they were shaking so much. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U104	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U105	They were so afraid of the inspection coming from the Ministry of Education. After the school board had made a decision and then representatives of the ministry came, the director and the principals began singing a different song. It was the same time that Jaak Allik and I were together at the Kohtla-Järve Gymnasium. Mr. Kapov wrote a beautiful article about it. We talked about not being ready for the transition, we need to start from the other end. Where was it? There is a need for elections to come, so that this issue is taken up again. Ladies and gentlemen of the IRL! I want to calm you down. You're afraid in vain that the Minister of Education and Science will change the PGS. To change it, one person is not enough. There is a powerful structure called the Ministry of Education and Research. You should know this very well, because, as it sounded here today, for 12 years, your people filled this fortress with their soldiers. I can't imagine those people who worked for one goal for 12 years under Lukas and Aaviksoo now starting to help someone who showed up for less than a year and probably disappears somewhere after 1 March. So I'm not hoping for that change. I think Estonia is making a very big mistake. We, those of us who teach the language and understand it, have been talking for over 20 years about the need to start in kindergarten. It's been a constant conversation. The fact that you come up with this idea 20 years later is your problem. I think that Estonia will only lose when children are taught Estonian history, Estonian literature and Estonian geography in a language that they do not understand perfectly. They don't get that knowledge, they just lose them. So the years are going by, the subject is still the same and most of us still do not fully understand what we are talking about. I congratulate you on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U106	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Urmas Reinsalu! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U107	There is no reason to congratulate or be happy about anything. Mr Ossinovski's current theme is not linguistic or educational in the light of a practical problem. This is clearly an ideological choice that they are trying to blow up before the elections. Part of the transition to Estonian-language education in upper secondary schools with Russian language has been sought to politicise very clearly both in Latvia and Estonia before the elections. We know that there have been long disputes over the Yearbook of the Defence Police, how the Russian embassy has been very active in both countries to push this issue, so that it becomes an ideological place of conflict, so that it can be demonstrated with clear rhetoric that the community of compatriots is being harmed. This is a very clear, very ideological topic. This has not been successful in Estonia before, even though the Centre Party has been very active in this direction. We are saying that this transition has been difficult, but there is nothing else to expect when in several municipalities the schoolmaster himself has given clear political signals that this is not a sensible plan. The transition has, of course, been more difficult than the schoolmasters, these municipalities, are fighting their political agenda against it. However, we have moved in the right direction because the country's political line has been in place. Now, I think, the most regrettable thing is that, simply in the interests of an election campaign or vote in elections, the current Minister of Education, at national level, sends a clear signal that those who have fought against it have been right. I think it's an irresponsible signal. This political game doesn't pay off. I'm surprised that somewhere, like a molehole, has disappeared from this hall of reform parties. From the agreement of the current coalition, I read that the current law and the transition to the Estonian language of instruction will not be changed. I read Mr Michal's speech that, no, everything stays in place, that is one show. My question is who's in power in the country? Is the current Minister of Education some kind of separatist who's pulling a machine gun into the air, or is this a political line of the government? I have to interpret all of this to the Estonians, to the Russians, but also to the school people and to the general public in such a way that the Minister of Education produces a clear message with a very systematic agenda that he repeals this provision. I do not know, Mr Stalnukhin, but I believe that the electorate's will in the elections depends on whether a political mandate is given in order to change the PGS. 'I am withdrawing this provision,' the Minister of Education replied very clearly today to the Russian question of Delfi. Turning educational policy issues into political and ideological issues and starting to build confrontation on this ground, I think it's a poor policy, it doesn't deserve candles. I would also like to call for this Orwell rhetoric to be avoided. To learn languages, we heard it from the Minister of Education. The more languages the sons and daughters of the smaller people have in their mouths, the more reasonable. Mr. Minister of Education visited specialists who said it was possible to get a foreign language in their mouth ten times faster. There are people like that. Languages must be studied and the language can be taken in the mouth ten times faster, the Estonian language must be taught more, the Minister of Education spoke, and in order to achieve this, 60%: 40% requirement will be abolished. I think it's counterproductive rhetoric, to put it mildly. If languages are to be studied, if there is a good methodology that can still be implemented, who is opposed to it, no matter what language we speak? Why, then, do we start with this abolition if the aim is to make language learning in primary school even stronger, which has not been opposed by previous education ministers, as is being said here? There is no invention of a bicycle when suggestions have been made to strengthen the teaching of the Estonian language. But there's a clear difference. There is a very clear political message: 'We protect you, the policy that has been pursued so far in the Republic of Estonia has been poor, it has been poorly implemented and we will repeal this provision. ' That is a very clear, very streamlined political agenda! I think that a large number of things that have been done consistently against a very intensive political agenda are going empty. An agent that has been strongly systematically supported by a group of politicians who have acted against the transition to partial Estonian-language learning. An agent run by the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs with his propaganda. An agent that's been trying to scare people. I am sorry that this agenda is currently winning a point in Estonia's public space with this rhetoric. He doesn't deserve it. It is very regrettable that, at exactly the same time, I hope that this is a coincidence when the Minister of Education started to play politically on this topic, the Russian School in Estonia in turn started collecting complaints about human rights violations in connection with the transition to Estonian-language education. This political, ideological theme has been set out and this approach is not in Estonia's interest. This is not in the interests of the Russian people or the Estonian people. I therefore call on the Government Union to express a clear political stance. The Prime Minister will remain silent on this matter. I think it's a bad silence. This can lead to conflicts and delays in finding solutions. We're gonna lose everything from this. Let's keep it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U108	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Alliku, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The question of teaching Estonian to Russian-speaking students actually comes down to whether or not the Russian-speaking school has a place in the Estonian education system. We have basically lost national higher education in Russian and daily print media. We have also reduced the volume of Russian-language television. In the latter case, we have realised that a mistake has been made, and the government has supported the opening of the Russian-speaking TV channel. There is a general consensus on the need for a basic school in Russian, and at least none of the major parties talk about losing a basic school in Russian as a goal. The Russian gymnasium is the subject of spin. If the aim is to lose it, the course is understandable to make the study of subjects in Estonian. In places where there is an Estonian language environment, Russian upper secondary school and even primary school have disappeared naturally and have not provoked opposition. I mean, for example, my hometown, Viljandi. In places where the Russian-speaking people make up 97% of the population, such as Narva or Sillamäe, the aim is to lose the Russian-speaking gymnasium politically irresponsible, giving rise to great political tension and confrontation. In practice, this now means making one part of the Russian-speaking youth unable to get access to upper secondary school education, the other part means unfulfilled upper secondary school education. To protect this objective, examples are given that no one in Finland opens schools in Estonian or in Germany in Turkish, pretending that these comparisons are not historically and geographically completely inappropriate. There are almost a third of young people in Estonia whose native language is not Estonian, and there is a school network and a large faculty to provide education in Russian. However, we have lost the preparation of Russian-language teachers at higher education institutions. I completely agree here with Eerik-Niles Kross, who only last week wrote to Sirbis that it should be restored. Given our current circumstances, the right and very necessary goal can therefore be to improve the teaching of Estonian to young people in Russian, starting with kindergarten and continuing in comprehensive school and upper secondary school. Giving part of the subjects in Estonian is one of the possible tools of continuing teachers with a high level of knowledge and appropriate teaching methods in the Estonian language. They're not enough right now. At the same time, it is quite natural that subjects that are to be provided in Estonian in upper secondary school should be given in Estonian in part for at least the acquisition of basic concepts. It is here that schools and schoolkeepers should be given the freedom to choose the right and the right methods for each school, while at the same time increasing the level of teaching the Estonian language and increasing the level of demandingness, focusing all resources on creating a real language environment, at least temporarily, by organising student exchanges and language camps, which the Russian-speaking student community is very much in favour of and wants, and what the Ministry is currently planning. Personally, in the 21st century, each basic school should reach a level of teaching in a foreign language and in a Russian-language comprehensive school, so that the competence of the teacher can decide on the choice of subjects in the upper secondary school. There could be not only German and Russian upper secondary schools in Estonia, but also English and French upper secondary schools, provided that the students' good knowledge of Estonian in these schools is not a question. Now I must deeply grieve Mr Reinsalu and this side of the hall, of whom no one is present. In fact, no PGS points need to be changed to this, all of which is permitted by the current law. The least necessary is to change this point of the law, which makes perfect sense that the language of instruction in the school is the language in which at least 60% of the study takes place. You've made some form of yourself that you're shooting at, you're talking about changing the legal provisions that nobody's planning on doing. Once again, all that I am talking about allows the law to be applied wisely. This certainly cannot be achieved, however, by means of coercive methods which do not in any way improve the cohesion of society, which should now be our primary objective. During the Sovietisation period of the Tsar, there was a time in Estonia when Estonian students were even punished for speaking in their mother tongue during the break. I don't think a school system like this can set an example for us. Our goal should certainly be positive integration, not violent assimilation. For people who have lost hope that positive integration is possible, I say that it has probably not been done by the right methods so far. But there's one thing I don't really agree with the Minister. The minister spoke of the fact that he believed that history, including Estonian history, should be taught in Estonian to students with Russian language. I am thinking, in particular, of the history of the 20th century, the teaching of which should also be aimed at transferring and shaping the assessments and values contained in the curriculum. The history teachers I have spoken to claim that teaching students in languages that are less understandable does not pass 30% of the study volume on. I consider this activity to be political vermin, and I think that there should still be a possibility in the curriculum that teaching Estonian history of the 20th century should be done in a language that is better understood by the students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U110	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U111	Dear colleagues, please sign up for an appearance in a free microphone after the hammer hit! Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U112	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, both of you! [[Laughing.]] Last year, ten years passed a tragedy in Asia. Do you remember the tsunami that killed about 200,000 people? Two of my good friends, one of them my classmates, were there on the same day. They had breakfast at the hotel when the wave started coming. When the biggest water had passed and there was a chance to look around to see what happened, it turned out they were lucky. The dining hall was on the second floor, and it was possible to run even higher from the wave. But one of my two friends had gone to pour coffee just before the wave arrived. Maybe the others found out he was at the top of the palm, hanging around the third floor. The most fantastic thing was that you held on to two local waiters. They were skinny, of course, but they both weighed about 50, 60 kilos. This means that a man who isn't physically very advanced, he doesn't weigh much more than 70 kilos, was able to climb up to the third floor when two men were holding on to him like that. Excuse me, Jaak and Mart, I've known you a long time, and I love you sincerely, but you keep reminding me of this case. You're trying to climb a palm somewhere in an extreme situation before the election, but it's not gonna work. This would have required something else to do earlier. This requires not only mobilisation for two months, but perhaps a little more work. We're working! Jaak, we're working! In Narva last year, a School of Fine Sciences was created because we understood that with people such as Lukas, Aaviksoo, the Hunter and everyone next to them, you will already achieve yours and leave our children without education. But that doesn't mean we don't have to do anything. We'll do it! We did an exact science school. Last year, the final exams went much better in this upper secondary school than in the previous year. Almost half of Narva's gymnasists study mathematics, chemistry, and physics in their mother tongue and pay three euros a month for it. Why don't you talk about it while you're there? Why don't you want to have a human conversation in Narva? Why don't you come talk about it in Narva? Why every time you invite Social Democrats to work together in Narva, they say they have to consult Allik, and after these meetings, we are usually sent to lengths? What's the point here to convince everyone that you're big friends if you absolutely refuse to cooperate right there in the local government? I'm reminding you of interesting things. Maybe it's not very nice to hear them. Do you remember? You don't remember! The fact that in 1999 I was involved in the Citizenship Act. There is a provision that the written part of the language examination is exempt from the person who was born before 1 January 1930. This provision made sense when it was adopted in 1992. But what was his point in 1999? When I started talking about it, I was once again surprised by the berries who at that time accused me of almost deporting old people because I don't believe in their abilities. It is the right time to learn the language when you are 70 years old, and you must acquire the perfect language skills to take this exam! Look, it's an empty hall, it's just us here, not even on TV right now. Stop speculating! If you want to develop cooperation, on behalf of your constituents, I am willing to do so, but do it humanely! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U113	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Alliku, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U114	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Stalnukhin! Unfortunately, I have to remind you that the Centre Party has an absolute majority in the City Council of Narva. I'm really glad you guys are doing what you're doing. I don't understand why you have to ask the kids for money. In my opinion, the subjects you mentioned are not taught in Estonian at Narva Gymnasiums. Why kids are so badly taught there that they have to do special school, I don't understand that. However, as far as cooperation is concerned, I would point out that, after the new Council meeting, the Council's education committees did not accept any representative of the social democrats, or opposition, as a member. Working together like that, some people are at the council, and others are at the door somewhere, it's kind of hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-19_U115	Thank you. The free microphone's over. Good fellows, thank you. Today's trial is over. Good luck in our work! Closure of the sitting at 6.03 p.m.
