ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U1	Good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! Currently 66 members of the Riigikogu are present, 35 are missing. Today, Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi and Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants participate in Question Time. Last day, 12 members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask a question in Question Time. As a result, today's Question Time is similar to that of last Wednesday, namely registered... Please help the ambassador! I'll keep going. Let's hope the vigilante gets his remote. Anyone who asked to ask a question yesterday will have the opportunity to submit one additional question and will also be able to submit one additional question from the floor, so a total of two.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U2	Let's get started. The first questioner is Kadri Simson and the question is for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U3	Thank you. Dear Taavi in the garment! On 28 February there was a debate on the election of Prime Minister candidates in Estonian Television. Juhan Parts, who was your competitor, asked very precisely whether you would confirm that the Reform Party would not lose tax exemptions. More specifically, your duet with Juhan Parts sounded that way. The parties claimed that the Reform Party has been concealing very large losses of VAT exemptions from voters, such as the abolition of the VAT exemption for tourism, which directly hits 30000 jobs. You answered the Duck so he wouldn't mess around. At that, Parts asked, "Are you saying that tax exemptions do not lose? ' And now the quote, your answer: 'Absolutely, I say. The claim you now attribute remains very strongly on your conscience. ' That show was on the air the day before the election. Now, two months later, the Reform Party is talking a whole different story. Why did you lie in "The Election Studio"?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U4	Thank you. I believe that if you look at this show as a whole, you can quite well see the context of this question. A good colleague, Juhan, pointed out that the Reform Party had a firm plan to go after all the tax exemptions. He stressed a number of tax exemptions and presented them all as a definite plan. That's what I argued against. Looking at what the Reform Party has said before and after the elections, ideologically, as a principle, we prefer less taxation on labour and increased taxation on polluting and harmful consumption. We have also been thinking for many years that there could be fewer exceptions than more. If you ask whether the Reform Party had a definite plan to abolish one or the other specific exception before the elections, then I say that it was not. The abolition of exceptions has come to our table both as a source of child benefits and as a cover for the reduction in labour taxes. We discussed very different exceptions to the formation of a government union. I dare say that perhaps the only tax exemption, which we did not discuss at all, was the difference in value added tax (VAT) on medicines. We found that there is no point in discussing this, because it is necessary in any case and the benefit goes to the right target group. We discussed all the other exceptions, but not as a promise from the Reform Party or as a'solid wish', but rather as a source of cover, so that we can reduce the tax burden on labour and increase child support and ensure that the Estonian state is firmly protected. That's right. You shouldn't think of it as a party thing. All the issues that we have agreed on in the coalition agreement are common matters between the three parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U5	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U6	Thank you. Dear Taavi in the garment! Before the March elections of the Riigikogu, the Ministry of Finance, led by the Reform Party, made an estimate of the amount of electoral promises made by one party or another and the potential sources of revenue. On the platform of the Reform Party, the Ministry of Finance wrote that the abolition of tax exemptions allows the Reform Party to earn more than 130 million euros per year in the state budget. Given that the Ministry of Finance did not invent what one party or another thinks, but asked all political parties for clarifications and met the programmers of the parties, I believe that this EUR 130 million had not been taken out of the ceiling. What tax exemptions did the calculation of the Reform Party contain exactly? 130 million are a large part of the current tax exemptions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U7	Thank you. I'll be honest with you, I don't know what kind of data the Ministry of Finance took into account back then. He had to do it on the surface of some conjecture, because if we look at the tax exemptions together, they will have a budget of over 300 million euros. I don't know why 130 million or where that came from. We said right from the beginning that this was the calculation of the Ministry of Finance. As far as I know, we have not been asked what specific exception anyone had in mind. The former Minister of Finance, sitting at my right hand, who was also a part of the negotiations from the beginning to the end, recalled that there were, in fact, tax exemptions that we did not even mention in the talks. On the contrary, we decided to significantly increase one specific tax exemption, namely the exemption from income tax on pensions. We agreed that, as is currently the case, the average pension is exempt from income tax, so will remain in the future. In practice, this means that if so far the cost of income tax exemption for pensions has been EUR 159.7 million in the state budget, this is by far the most costly tax exemption, then in the future this amount will increase as a result of government union policies. Let us honestly say that this is a tax exemption that we want to increase, because we want all pensions to be exempt in the future, at least for the average pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U8	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U9	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! By abolishing the tax exemption for accommodation establishments and raising VAT from 9% to 20%, the Estonian state will not win, but actually lose. We know that, for example, the average tourist leaves around 191 euros, of which only 20% will be spent overnight. For example, spaite has claimed that if this exception were abolished, at least half of the spa would go bankrupt. Why are we doing this now if tourists' money would not come to Estonia as a result, the Estonian state would receive less money and people would also have less money for many services?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U10	Thank you. First of all, on the basis of the order of magnitude you have mentioned, that only 20% is going to stay overnight, you could say that the total VAT exemption affects the tourism situation by less than 2% of the total amount. If you think that because of the increase of less than 2% in total costs, half of the tourists could not come here, or what exactly was your assumption, I believe it is difficult to take this very seriously, according to economic logic. There are a number of justifications for the VAT exemption for accommodation establishments, which, yes, you are right, will result in a loss of revenue of EUR 22 to 25 million for the state in different years. It has been asked whether a tourist coming to Estonia needs support or a discount price, or whether this money is needed, for example, by children who are unable to go to the circle of interest. It's a real place to weigh. When we assess whether we can meet those entrepreneurs who say that the sudden abolition of the VAT exemption will have a significant impact on their business, I think it is. Today, too, we were looking with our partners in the government union for ways to mitigate this increase in VAT. We will discuss this tomorrow in the country's budgetary strategy, and I dare say that we will find a sensible solution. In any case, it is important to know that a country's budgetary strategy must strike a balance between revenue and expenditure and that money must be found in those areas that need it most.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U12	The next question is for the Minister of Education and Science, Jürgen Ligi. It's presented by Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U13	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Minister! You have, Mr Ligi, in an interview with Postimees and also in the Committee on Culture on Monday, expressed the view that private schools' economic money should not be state budgeted but paid by municipalities. We know from concrete life experiences that municipalities do not want to pay this money. However, as an interim compromise solution, or rather, on the basis of a court decision, the state is obliged to pay out this money. Now the amendment is trying to put this obligation back on the municipalities. My question is this: why is there a difference between allocating money to children? After all, all of this could be a bounty paid regardless of the school's ownership, it would be a private, municipal or public school. Would you be in favour of such an option and, if not, why not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U14	Thank you. I didn't notice you were on the cultural committee last night. But I'll try to explain. There's no difference between a child and a child. The state contribution covers most of the learning costs incurred in all schools, including municipal, public and private schools. In addition, a certain part of the economic cost is less than that of the costs that are traditionally paid by the schoolkeeper. For this purpose, he or she shall be entitled to the collection of tuition fees. The system that has been in place in Estonia until 2011 is one of the most generous in the world. So massive support for private schools from the state budget is, as far as we know, only in Chile, where even all costs are paid, and in Sweden or perhaps in the Nordic countries in general, where private money is prohibited and these schools must be part of the school network. Our situation is complicated because the Riigikogu made an unconstitutional decision in 2011, as if the municipalities had an obligation to pay off all the remaining expenses that have now been settled in court. That obligation, yes, I think, should not have been imposed on them, and that obligation must be lifted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U15	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U16	I'm still gonna ask you again. If children are financed in the same way, but this money is simply called differently, one is a bounty, the other is economic money, then why do you want to make a distinction between children because of the school ownership?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U17	Thank you. I'll answer again then, because you asked the same thing again. No, children and children don't know the difference. The state finances learning costs by allocating money to teachers' salaries, educational resources, directors' and teachers' salaries, school meals, all forms of school equally, and I think that this should continue to be the case in the future. Despite the fact that this system is one of the most generous in the world, and despite the fact that it actually puts the municipal school network in further difficulties because we are losing turnover there. At the same time, the municipal school network is clearly overdimensioned for historical reasons. Children have been cut short and optimising this school network is one of the major national headaches in which the state, of course, the central government, is trying to help the municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U18	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U19	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As we know, private schools are also Waldorf schools, religious schools and several schools for children with special needs. If the state or local government stopped supporting the operating costs of these schools, this would mean closing doors for a large number of schools. I believe you have certainly discussed in the Ministry of Education how to preserve the diversity of our educational landscape. If you have done so, what do you think could be the solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U20	Thank you. First of all, as I have already explained, our system of private schools is one of the most generous in the world. I do not know the systems of all continents, but the result of this system is certainly the diversity of the school network or education. You can't deny that. Does this decision of the Supreme Court give rise to any kind of closure? There's no way to rule that out. Closes are on the school network all the time, both state schools and municipal schools are closed. Of course, this analysis needs to be clarified, but the system in which the state, the central government, pays all the costs, plus the school can collect tuition fees cannot be considered sustainable. Because, firstly, the result of this is a clear stratification of education which does not comply with the principle of a school of convergence, and secondly, it also results in manipulation of educational costs that have already begun in some municipalities. I mean, it's hoped that we'll be able to get rid of our school network by pushing it to the neck of the country. There are already these initiatives. This cannot be allowed because it is not feasible for the country. I do not see the slightest chance of paying off 14 million euros in the education budget afterwards, which was caused by the decision of the Riigikogu. I think that an understanding of the parties could lead to the result that we will continue to contribute to the salaries of teachers, regardless of the ownership of the school, not to the uncontrollable extension of the school network and the stratification of education.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U22	The next questioner is Andres Herkel and the question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Yesterday, the representatives of the authorities in the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee quite arrogantly rejected the collective appeal on border guards. Unfortunately, I have to point out that the Committee on Legal Affairs went along with this, essentially acting like such a rubber stamp again. It was said that everything works out well, everything works out perfectly. However, I found one of the most critical notes in the coalition agreement. Point 12.4 states: 'We strengthen the coordination capacity of border guards in the Ministry of the Interior. We will analyse border control tasks and training arrangements in a changed security situation. ' Tell me, please, how do you intend to proceed from this point, to this point! Could this include restoring the sectoral management of border guards in the PBGB?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U24	Thank you. As far as I know about the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs yesterday, I can say that the clear conviction of the majority of the Commission was still that the destruction of the Police and Border Guard Board was not a good idea, just as not all the signals that are currently doing a very good job in the Republic of Estonia's Police and Border Guard Board show that they are somehow weaker than reality. I do not think it is manly to send messages outside Estonia, as if the Estonian border guard did not do a good job, all the more so that this complaint would not be true. If we look at the development of recent years, I dare to confirm that the Estonian border guard has become stronger, more motivated and significantly better equipped. We would certainly like to continue with the fact that all border guards, who have 700 circa on the eastern border, have very decent equipment and wages, as well as the most up-to-date working conditions that are possible. This year, too, we are investing heavily both in upgrading equipment and, for example, in building a new large cordon building in Piusa, where we can be quite sure that it is the eastern border of Europe, if not the most modern, that it is one of the most modern cordones in which border guards have a good day's work.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U25	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U26	Thank you. Prime Minister! However, you did not answer my question as to whether or not there would be sectoral governance. But I checked that when the Police and Border Guard Act was being processed in the XI Riigikogu a long time ago, undoubtedly the security situation was different from the one at present in the explanatory memorandum, the idea was very clear that the PBA had sectoral management and one of the four departments was the Border Guard Department with the Deputy Director of this field. Why has this governance been abolished and has the restructuring of the PBGB followed the instructions given by the XI Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U27	Thank you. There should be very strong reasons to break the current governance structure. I must admit that those who say that the structure of the Police and Border Guard Board should be overhauled capitalically, maybe separated from these organisations, I have not heard convincing arguments. However, I fully agree with the assessment made yesterday by three people who have themselves led the internal security authorities: Raivo Aeg, Andres Anvelt and Kalle Laane. They said that for five years the U.S.A. has been working, and now its separation, given the general security situation in our region, would clearly not be a step to strengthen the security of the country. I agree with them. They are certainly experts in their field, just as the experts in their field are the people who currently run the Police and Border Guard Board. These people are doing their job with their hearts. They know how to best protect the Estonian border, they know how to best guard it. It is not our business as politicians to go between the ways in which they organise their daily work, but together to ensure that the eastern border is properly constructed. We need tens of millions of euros to do this. The support of the Riigikogu, all of you, is very much needed for this. I hope that, in the discussions on the state budget, you will not only vote in favour of improving the working conditions of border guards, but also that the government will be able to manage its forces, but you will also vote in favour of investing tens of millions of euros on the eastern border of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U28	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U29	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! Unfortunately, you still did not answer the question of how you will comply with your coalition agreement. I'll ask you the next question. The Estonian border is also the border between Europe and NATO. What are the specific prevention actions, how do we deal with prevention? Indeed, at the border we cannot only deal with protection, but we also have to deal with prevention. The eastern border is more unpredictable due to conflicts and other problems. At the same time, communities also have a question of how we will be protected. What are the specific activities involving communities and what are the prevention activities at the border?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U30	Thank you. The best preventive action is a well-built border. It is quite clear that if we can not only record the border line with the most modern means, but also with technological means, to ensure that every movement made in the border zone is immediately informationable and that border guards get a video picture of it, if we ensure that, apart from the border strip, which also works as a trace strip, and a proper fence, there are good quality sensors at the border, it will not only act as a prevention, but, I believe, as a strong deterrent. If potential borderbreakers still know that it's not that you're just crossing the border in the bush and you're hoping not to get caught, but you know that you're definitely getting caught, because every step that's being taken in this zone will either register cameras or sensors or both, then, believe me, it works as a very good prevention. No one even thinks about crossing the border, or at least it significantly reduces the likelihood of potential border offenders or smugglers doing so. It is also, of course, important to contribute to the 'next zones'. The border guard works not only directly on the eastern border, not only directly on the border line, but there are several zones. At the same time, it is important, as you rightly said, to involve the local community. The plans to build and strengthen the border also take into account that not only the border strip needs to be contributed directly, but also that the police and border guard staff have good contacts with the local community.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U32	The next question is put by Mr Ratas and the question is to Mr Pomerants, Minister for the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U33	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Minister of the Environment, Paragraph 62 of the Groundbreaking Act lays down basic requirements for the protection of the ground. According to this, the Ministry of the Environment may authorise activities affecting the status and use of the ground under certain conditions. As a result, the possibilities of using private and municipal land ownership for different deposits, in particular granite, limestone and phosphorus deposits located in Northern Estonia, are very limited, and there are serious difficulties in completing detailed plans. Do you think it is possible to mitigate the use of land units in this category? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U34	Thanks for the question! In my opinion, you did not mention oil shale in that fall, which is very topical in Lääne-Virumaa, for example. But if you respond well, it is true that both the Ministry of the Environment and the Land Board are involved in coordinating different procedures. To put it quite roughly, the statistics are that 90% of these applications are coordinated and about a dozen are not coordinated. As always in the environmental field, they are always decision-making decisions. Yeah, I'm sure the Ministry will have to work hard to get people to live in the country and have places. But I don't see that a very big policy change can be made here because mineral resources also want to be protected. One next question will deal with this issue in greater depth.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U35	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U36	Thank you! At present, the state, as a mineral owner, is unable in many cases to say that, in most cases, it will not be possible to say when the mineral resources in the underground of one or the other property will be extracted. It'll be in five, ten, or a hundred years, who knows. However, do you think, Mr Minister, that the landowner is not entitled to know when the mineral resources in the underground will be extracted? It's just to develop your property. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U37	Thanks! There has been such a period in my life, too, when I thought it would be very nice if there was such a map of the time course, say, the exact five years, or whatever period you could look at when some kind of project is going to take place. But I think that if the owner of a particular property turns to the authorities of the Environmental Board, for example, with precision, I don't know, five or ten years will be able to give him that answer. I, for one, could.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U38	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U39	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! The question is about the Paljassaare cultural halls. Nobody owns the sea floor, the sea floor belongs to the state. I would like to ask why the Ministry of the Environment, during the previous ministerial period, spent six years coordinating the detailed plan of the Paljassaare cultural clusters and discussing the special water permit. Can you answer that, or are you not aware of it yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U40	Thanks for the question! I understand that one of the former ministers is your current colleague. He's not at hand right now, but it's worth asking him. The other Minister of Foreign Affairs often moves around here. I don't have to give you the answer they were missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U42	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, Prime Minister. We have now heard the praise of the government coalition itself for food and food, as child-friendly as the current coalition agreement and the government that has begun its work. However, in the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, the Coalition wishes to decouple additional tax-free income for child maintenance from the general tax-free rate and keep it at the current level this year. So, with one hand, you give it to the other hand. This seems to be the pattern of the Reform Party's behaviour. You declare an increase in child benefits loudly, but at the same time you sneak up on children's income tax receipts. If you believe in the explanatory statement, EUR 2.1 million will be planned for 2017 and will continue at a progressive pace. Would you explain the motives of such a government union?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U44	Thank you. I think you've got something mixed up now. Despite the fact that we really discussed in the government union talks whether, in addition to the increase in child benefits and the increase in the tax-free minimum, there should be an additional tax exemption from the second child, we decided, however, that, yes, it must be maintained. If we look at the fact that the overall tax exemption is increasing at a faster pace than planned so far, this also applies to families with children. It is certainly not possible to say that money has been taken from families with children or that money is saved from families with children. If the benefit for families with children is maintained and, in addition, there is an increase in the minimum tax-free rate for all, regardless of the number of children, it can even be said that families with children win from several places. Firstly, the overall tax-free minimum will increase, secondly, there will also be an additional tax-free minimum dependent on the second, third and next children, and, thirdly, there will be substantial increases in child-related benefits. Support for the first and second children will increase to EUR 60 in four years and, if there are three children in the family, in the future, the family will receive a total of EUR 420 in public benefits for three children, which will certainly be an important addition to the management of families with children. So the assessment that child-related benefits will be reduced or that families with children will pay a higher tax is, fortunately, not true.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U45	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U46	Thank you for your explanations, Prime Minister. However, why should there not be an increase in the additional tax-free income for child maintenance, together with an increase in the overall tax-free rate of return, as has been the case so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U47	Thank you. First of all, I would like to emphasise once again that the additional income tax exemption for children will remain, and will not be reduced. The original information you provided was, fortunately, inaccurate. But the reason why we decided to increase child benefits rather than to increase income tax-free income in addition to the increase that is already taking place for everyone, regardless of the number of children, is quite simple. We believe that the rise in child benefits is somewhat more transparent and affects people who, for example, do not have any income at all and who actually need the support of the state most. The income tax-free minimum and the additional income tax-free minimum depending on the number of children can only be obtained if the person also earns real income. Those people who don't make a profit aren't affected at all. But the rise in child benefits also affects people who do not earn income. We have never made a secret of the fact that we have had world-view differences in the government union. The Reform Party is of the opinion that, above all, child support should be increased for families most in need, for those living in relative poverty and whose livelihood needs to be improved the most. But we fully accept that it is important for our partner to increase child benefits so that all children's benefits rise. This is our common cause and we support it. So maybe our own preference would have been to do it a little differently.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U48	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U49	Thank you. Prime Minister! Let's stick to the explanatory memorandum to the same bill. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law amending the Income Tax Act shows that the total amount of deductions allowed from the taxable income of a natural person is reduced from EUR 1920 to EUR 1200. It is also clear from the explanatory memorandum that you call it as if the total amount of deductions was somewhat limited. The EUR 720 still does not seem to be somewhat. This concerns mortgage interest, training costs, donations. Please tell me how you believe this measure will still support raising children if the possibility of recovering money from mortgage interest, training costs, donations or also charity gifts is reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U50	Thank you. It is still very arbitrary to associate this particular decision with children and families. The rise in child benefits and the significant rise in the subsistence limit will improve the livelihood of families with children, almost one-and-a-half times. Coping with families who actually need the support of the state is improving the most. A step to improve the livelihood of families with children is certainly also to reduce labour taxes. All of this affects families with children. The change in this specific threshold is currently having a relatively small financial impact, but it will have a potential impact on the prevention of large expenditures in the future. In essence, this means that it equates people, let's say, with income tax refunds, regardless of their income. So far, the limit has been higher and people with higher incomes and higher housing costs have also had significantly higher returns than others. There will be a limit in the future that will, to a certain extent, equalise these refunds. Its impact on the state budget will not be very significant in the coming years, but it will still be to set a limit with a certain level playing field.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U52	The next question is from Mailis Reps to Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! We will continue the debate on this issue, on which the members of the Committee on Culture have already had an exchange of views with you on Monday. Indeed, the future of education and, of course, the financing of education. On the first question, I would like to highlight the general concern. Let us look at the regulation adopted a year and a half ago on the basis of which local authorities (cities and municipalities) receive education funding. In most municipalities with upper secondary school or an increasing number of children, funding per child has decreased significantly. A number of justifications have been given, but the main point is that the state helps to 'optimize' the school network, i.e. it forces local authorities to close schools or give up upper secondary school to the state. Do you continue to pursue the same policy by forcing local governments to give up their upper secondary school grades because of lack of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U54	Thank you. In fact, you could discuss this subject with my predecessor, Jevgeni Ossinovski, I don't know what your description is. This claim that funding for a student has been reduced in most municipalities is not taken as pure gold. I have to check it out. I have a hunch of where this interpretation comes from, but 'in most municipalities' certainly doesn't mean the same as'most children', there's a very big difference. All in all, however, the funding for education has increased, and so has in recent years. As Minister of Finance, I always wanted education to gain an advantage. Speaking of what the mechanism is with state secondary schools, then, yes, I even think that this pressure on local governments should be strengthened in a positive way. If the school network remains so high, after all, the number of children has doubled for demographic reasons, but the other figures in school are rather not, I mean square meters and the number of teachers, it is not sustainable. Cooperation with local governments is certainly one of my main tasks. These relationships are likely to be contractual. I hope there will also be an operational response. Municipalities are interested in the network of state secondary schools, which saves them hard and hard costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U55	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It was completely unclear how closing schools could be a positive pressure due to lack of money, but it is up to you to decide. With the second question, I come back to financing private schools. I may have a rather simple question for you. Namely, it was 2014. This was, by the way, an amendment by the Reform Party, so there is no point in putting it on the whole Riigikogu for private schools to be able to deliver significant amounts of money in the future, as they have set their own things in anticipation of legal continuity. Will the same agreements continue in 2016 to the same extent, so that the state will agree with private schools and give them a little extra money for boxing?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U57	Thank you. If you've evaluated my previous response, I need to make it clear that you misjudged it. The creation of state secondary schools in counties is, in any case, positive news, saving local governments' costs is positive news and the resulting increase in teachers' pay and, I believe, the improvement in the quality of education are positive. It can't be that we're gonna be burning boxes and empty classrooms. The same goes for private schools, unfortunately. We're not setting such a goal that we're burning boxes. We aim to ensure that teachers also have a decent salary in private schools, that they have proper educational resources and that they have school food comparable to those of other schools. As for the solution that is in force this year, it was still a fast-track decision by the previous government. According to my memory, at the time, I no longer belonged to the government and did not know these details. But this solution is never meant to be sustainable, never. In particular, the Centre Party should protest against this option, which creates the risk of education stratification. I, on the other hand, am opposed to such a development of the school network if there is no possibility of cost control and the possibility of teachers' pay rising is lost. I'm sure I'm against it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U58	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U59	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister of Education, I also ask about the financing of private schools, because there is a Supreme Court ruling that is to be enforced in a democratic state. According to the Supreme Court judgment, municipalities are obliged to finance private schools, but this money comes from the state. It is as if you said that EUR 14 million should be paid to local governments, but you are not going to finance it because it is not fair. How is it possible to view the Supreme Court's judgment in such a way that it does not have to be enforced? As far as I know, the practice has developed so that the funds can be recovered by the municipalities that are going to court for this. But perhaps an out-of-court agreement should be made so that every municipality does not have to go to a separate court to get the money from the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U60	Thank you. I didn't notice if you were in the hall before, but what you just said doesn't add up to a very high percentage. I am familiar with the obligation to execute judgments. I have not had many judgments to execute in my life, it has only had to be done in the Riigikogu, but of course they have to be executed. And the EUR 14 million you have talked about must, of course, be paid out retroactively. But if we leave this system similar, uncontrolled, then we must literally start reducing teachers' salaries. I certainly don't agree with that. I have already explained in my first reply that our system is one of the most generous in the world in private schools. He could stay that way. But the mistake that the municipalities were forced to do so must be removed by a court decision. I think that municipalities also need to be able to assess which school network they can afford and which school complements their school network so much that it is essential.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U61	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U62	The next questioner is Raivo Põldaru and the question is for the Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. What do you think about the thoughts of Academician Anto Raukas that the continuation of the growth of nature reserves has put at risk the development of the economy and also the welfare of the population?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U64	Thank you, good questioner! Of course, academics don't ask the Master for any advice. If Anto Raukas had asked me for advice before writing this article, I would have given him good advice not to write this article because the world around us did not get any better than that. But, of course, the Evening Paper is a big one, and everything is very nice. But as far as this issue is concerned, if I remember correctly from the press, you are a former head of school and you have certainly told your students about the importance of natural wealth and natural capital. If we look at this situation in Europe today, we will see that the whole perspective of protecting, preserving and valuing natural capital is painted red with indicator paint, which means that the situation is very bad. But I, who, in addition to everything, have a geologic education, accept that natural resources should be used to meet environmental standards, including mineral mining. It could even make money to pay environmentalists.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U65	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U66	Minister, thank you very much. One of the main concerns about our nature conservation is that as a rural man and a person who has been living in the countryside for 70 years now, nature conservation regulations are made by officials and then made known to the local population. Several ministers have promised that they will involve more local residents. Who, then, is a better keeper and protector of nature than the person who lives among nature himself? When you are a minister, how do you plan to involve local residents in the preservation of our natural values?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U67	Thanks! In my short term of office, I have repeatedly said that I appreciate intellectual debates, where arguments, environmental and socio-economic are at stake, but not the categories 'like' or 'not like'. There are certainly a number of improvements to the protection rules in place today, and these debates are being held with people. Look, when we talk about nature conservation, which is very interesting, in many cases it is absolutely impossible to achieve a good result without a human being. Take, for example, the species diversity of woody meadows in Läänemaa. If this meadow wasn't mowed, or if the pets didn't eat that grass off there, where would it come to 70 species per square metre? Nowhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U68	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U69	The next question is Krista Arult to Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We all know that we have problems financing general education schools and that there is a need to raise teachers' salaries. But we also have higher education. Since 2013, we have free higher education both in daily education and at an open university when it comes to a study programme in Estonian. There are two sides to my question. First of all, how do you assess, having now become Minister for Education and Research, the free application of the possibility of higher education in our society? Is it positive? Secondly, what does the point in the coalition agreement mean that you value the inclusion of private money in higher education?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U71	Thank you. I consider this implementation to be contradictory, but I do not intend to in any way initiate a dispute or a change to this principle. 'Acceptable' is even a compliment here, because what was presented before the elections in 2011 was certainly, in my opinion, contrary to any healthy consideration. However, in the course of this reform or the introduction of free higher education, higher education has also been reformed, and that is in itself a good thing. The system has become more compact and free education in this sense more acceptable to the state. My ideological assessment of tuition fees coincides with that of the OECD, according to which people with higher education are the main winners and partial tuition fees would help the education system and would also be fair. These people live longer, happier and more prosperous, and it's not bad to bet a little bit. Appreciation for private money is certainly something that must be put in the mechanisms. This idea is also from our program, and I have already had time to discuss it with the higher education institutions. In fact, they would like the opportunity to enlighten society more widely in paid forms. Of course, it is people who are more of a parent who already have one higher education and who want to improve. All of this would help to improve funding for higher education and would be fair, voluntary and socially, I think, sensible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U72	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Let me ask you about another point that has caused a lot of excitement. It is precisely because, on the one hand, it is very positive and very right that we support the funding of national sciences, but at the same time it is still very confusing here. What does it mean to support the National Science Programme in Estonian universities? Does this mean that universities have to start a new program themselves, or does the Ministry see, in addition to existing programs, opportunities to support national sciences here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U74	Thank you. This is clearly a balancing point. This does not mean that we mean only an implementing mechanism, but it is something that must be remembered as a value. The points of the coalition agreement and the electoral programme should not be called 'election promise' in the sense that I promise and do a new thing or do it, but they are largely descriptions of values. That's how you take it. There is a great deal of criticism of programmes and agreements because they are round and unspecific, but values are round and unspecific. I believe that this point is intended to balance in our programme so that we are not overly technocratic, soulless and practical, so that the national sciences do not disappear and should not feel excluded in any way. But to be furnished, yes, all this must be done by the Minister of Education, and this must also be done in the government's work programme. So we'll protect the national sciences. I don't have an internal glitch here, to put it mildly, I don't. I tend to be too corrupted from my background in national science.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U75	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U76	Thank you. I'm still coming back to financing private schools. It was said that the economic costs of private schools were uncontrolled. You once, Mr. Ligi, were a liberal, then competition was good, and so was a private initiative. Why should the state even control the management of private schools? At present, it is the situation that private schools spend 75% of their total turnover on salaries, or personnel costs, while municipal schools spend 60% of their total turnover, i.e. 40% on management. Private schools clearly manage themselves more efficiently, with higher salaries. Why would it even be a matter of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U77	I'm sorry, but I don't think you've really thought this through or listened to me before. I never said we should check the cost of private schools. The issue is that the state must control its education costs and ensure that it has access to a school of convergence, free education and education at all. He has been truly generous to private schools in the international dimension, as I said, in order to bring diversity to the education system. But if we create such a basically unique system that the state simply pays the bills to be paid, then the result is a stratification of education and a reduction in opportunities for those who contribute to the ordinary school. That is why the schoolmaster has always financed some part of the world, for which he has also been able to collect tuition fees. It cannot be that, as a country under very heavy pressure because of the size of the infrastructure, we are simply paying for the expansion of the infrastructure. I am not saying that private schools have poor results, rather they have good results. I'm not saying they're economically ineffective. No, they're more efficient, even for the reason that they can choose where to start, they don't have a historical background. However, this does not mean that the central government, with its historical legacy, can pay maximum for uncontrolled private initiatives. No! Still equal for everyone. Teachers' wages, educational resources, school food just this kind of fundamental stuff.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U79	Well, now we have less than two minutes until the end of Question Time. In that time, Mart Helme will be able to ask Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas a question and the Prime Minister will be able to answer. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U80	Thank you very much, Chairman. Prime Minister! The issue of security has been dealt with a lot lately, also today. I have a question, too. We can see that the war will by no means leave the civilian population untouched. What is the readiness of the Republic of Estonia to provide shelters for residents in the event of a military conflict? What are the state's reserves to provide residents with the insularity, I mean food, water, hygiene and medical supplies?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U81	Thank you, dear questioner. First of all, I say that the Republic of Estonia will do everything in its power to prevent war from coming, and the people of Estonia will be able to feel secure in their own country. But it is also true that broad-based national defence means that everyone understands their role and knows how to act in the face of different threats. I do not quite agree that the protection of the population should necessarily be based on thousands of shelters. I believe that the best way to protect the population is to have people well informed about how to act and manage. Bringing national defence education to all upper secondary schools is definitely one thing that contributes to this. The active participation of residents in military service, the Defence League and higher national defence courses, where several members of the Riigikogu were also delighted to meet all such things, so that the people of Estonia know how to cope with the threat. But I stress once again that the Estonian state is not preparing for war. The Estonian state will do everything in its power to prevent war from coming. Estonia is well protected, our defence forces are very strong, and this is confirmed by the current exercise on Siil. Of course, we know very well that defending Estonia is not only our business, but defending Estonia is a common thing for NATO as a whole. We can feel safe.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U82	Thank you. Question Time is over. Thank you to the members of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U83	Dear Riigikogu, we will begin the Wednesday session. First of all, who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U84	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Estonian Centre Party Group will initiate a draft amendment to the Constitution aimed at legitimising the direct election of the President. The subject of direct elections is not new in Parliament's debate either; the presidents, both Rüütel and Meri, have supported it years ago, and the Centre Party has also spoken of direct elections for years. Several opinion polls have been carried out in the past, which show that a large number of Estonian people support the possibility of choosing the President themselves. I believe that the Estonian people, who are the supreme power under the Constitution, are able to choose the good heads of state for our country. Unfortunately, other parliamentary parties have still not supported the draft direct election. One reason has been the fact that the Constitution should not be amended by an easy hand. Today, however, the next item on the agenda is the draft, the procedure of which we see that at least political parties in the government coalition have a willingness to change the constitution. The government is willing to change the constitution to lower the election age. I believe, however, that the question of direct electing the President is much more important than this issue, and also more substantive. I hope that there will be a willingness to amend the Constitution also in the case of the direct election of the President and that the people will be given the opportunity to decide who is the most appropriate Head of State to the Republic of Estonia. According to the draft initiated by the Centre Party, for the first time in the history of statehood, the Head of State would be explained according to the will of the entire nation. The draft does not change the constitutional regime or the parliamentary regime. The draft submitted does not provide for any change in the competence of the President of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U85	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U86	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to discuss the question on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party to the Minister of Culture Indrek Saare. An inquiry concerns some of the property of our country, the creative people. In fact, there is a problem that creative workers who work under a contract provided for in the Law of Obligations Act may receive a lot of income on an irregular basis during the year, but they still do not have the right to health insurance because health insurance cover requires the entry in the employment register of 'ORS monthly payments'. It is not enough just to say 'debt law'. We believe that this situation is abnormal and violates the rights of artists, as well as those in many other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U87	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U88	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee initiates two draft decisions of the Riigikogu. The first of these concerns the appointment of the Gambling Tax Council in full composition. The political groups have received a proposal to appoint Mr Andres Ammas, Mr Helmen Kütt, Mr Lauri Luik, Mr Andres Metsoja, Mr Meelis Mälberg and Mr Mailis Reps as members of the Gambling Tax Board, and there is also a proposal that Chancellor Janar Holm of the Ministry of Education and Research, Chancellor Paavo Nõgene, and Deputy Chancellor Rait Kuuse, from the Ministry of Social Affairs. The deadline for amendments is 8 May 2015 at 4 p.m. The second draft decision of the Riigikogu initiated by the Monetary Committee is on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund. Aivar Sõerd and Martin Helme have received a proposal from the political groups to appoint members of the Riigikogu to the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund. In total, there are nine members of the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund and the Riigikogu has the power to appoint two persons there. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U89	I have adopted three drafts and one inquiry and they are carried on under the Home and Working Procedures Act. I have a message before I check in. Indeed, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber of the support group for the rehabilitation of freedom fighters, which will be convened by Jaanus Karilaid. And now, please, let's do the presence check! 95 members of the Riigikogu are present, 6 is missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U90	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's go to today's agenda. First of all, it is on our agenda to adopt the bill (703 SE) as a law to reduce the election age of the local government council elections of the Constitutional Amendment Act of the Republic of Estonia. As this is not often a form of debate, I will remind you how it is done. In fact, on 11 February this year the composition of Riigikogu XII adopted the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia to reduce the election age of the local government council elections. The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu proposed to amend the Constitution in accordance with § 163 (1) (2) and § 165 of the Constitution by two successive formations of the Riigikogu. As a result, the Riigikogu Board put this draft on the agenda of this working week. The procedure for the debate is that we open negotiations where only the representatives of the political groups can speak, and then there will be a final vote. The adoption of the draft law amending the Constitution as a law requires a three-fifths majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, i.e. 61 votes. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Lauri Luik Reform Party, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U91	Honourable Riigikogu! Good kids! The year was 1998 when, as young people aged 16 to 17, we decided to stop boring Haapsalu, our hometown must become a city of youthful makers, where it is awesome to live. So we started designing the city's first major attraction for young people, a skateboard park that became a popular place for spending time and socializing, then Facebook, if you like. This was the first step in our vision of creating a youth-friendly Haapsalu. By 2004, we had organized a youth organisation of 350 members, which then also set eyes on Estonia's larger cities. We 16-year-olds had a vision of our hometown, and in time we had a clear plan on how to implement this vision. The city government was just asking us what else to do and how to do in Haapsalu in order for the young to be cool. This experience alone has given me the conviction that lowering the election age in local elections is a worthwhile idea because young people deserve this trust. It is precisely trust that is the key word that this amendment to the Constitution in itself carries with it the trust of our young people, Estonia's future, to show that we are not just in thought but also in real action with young people. By reducing the election age, we are sending out a clear signal that we are also waiting for the younger generation to think along on issues of social development and to talk about our thoughts. It is also a signicant fact that the enforcement of the law requires the approval of two successive parliamentary formations. Good co-worker, you have the key to the final decision today. The debate on the reduction of the election age has lasted for at least the last 10 to 15 years, since the early days of high school my age, when the first timid thoughts on the subject were taken up. This is probably the most debated issue of youth at all. It is kind of nice that our generation has now reached the point of writing these lines into the Constitution itself. The majority of debates on elections have reached a broad conclusion that young people need to be more involved in social processes. One way is to lower the selection time. It is important to stress that this proposal is an initiative and a desire for young people themselves. There are already youth councils that work actively in the regions. The shadow elections carried by young people themselves show that an expression is being sought for social participation. Lowering the selection time will lead to a number of positive changes. For example, from 2017 onward, a young person aged 2400016 to 17 will have the opportunity to participate in local elections on how they think that life in the region might look in the future. The greater the involvement of society, the better. The objective of educating young people also plays an important role, so that they have an interest in democratic processes, an opinion and a desire to stand up for it, an ability to make decisions, and they know what it means to take responsibility, what the consequences might be. They get an idea of management information and stuff. The more detailed explanation of all of this will also require additions to current curricula, which the Ministry of Education and Research is consistently working on in order to make them more modern. Of course, it is also important to create an electoral habit. After all, the truth is that once you've done something, the second time it's a lot easier to do it because it's becoming a habit. However, if this is not the case at the right time and a young person goes to a larger university in his or her hometown, for example, this habit may not develop at all. Integration is a very important keyword. It is also known that non-citizens have the right to vote in local elections. This amendment would also extend to non-citizens of 16 years of age and over who live here permanently, the right to have a say in matters of local life and thus to feel as valued members of society. The sad fact is that our society is ageing and, inevitably, the focus in this regard is on topics that concern the older generation. They are, of course, very important. But I also consider it important that the younger people and the issues that concern them be given more attention. Young people themselves know best what they really want. I believe that by giving us the opportunity to choose when we are 16 years old, we will focus more on youth issues. According to the Eurobarometer, the turnout of young Estonians is now twice as low as for people over 55 years of age. Hopefully, with the proposed change, we will be able to move this trend in a positive direction. All the debates on the reduction of the electoral age in which I have participated have been highlighted in the fear that the political campaign could be passed on to schools. I am certainly not in favour of political propaganda in educational institutions, and it must be strictly regulated by the school's internal rules, which are mostly successful. Skeptics should be told that in Estonian schools, young people of electoral law are already studying, who could be a potential target group for party balloons and reflectors, but the schools have been able to abide by their own rules. At the same time, it is very important to distinguish between two completely different things: the objective information on elections, political party programmes and candidates acquired in the social education class or in the framework thereof, and the biased election campaign. My social teacher, Mr Heinar Tuulberg, held exciting debates every election year in the school hall, where representatives of all political parties were invited. Such an undertaking is, in my opinion, of great value and importance. Changes and developments in societies have led to lowering or debating the election age in a number of European countries. There are positive examples from Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Hungary and also Norway. All these countries are trying to get young people more involved in social processes. Estonia is no exception here. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable youths! On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to thank all those who have stood up for the reduction of the electoral age, have worked hard and have worked hard to achieve this. It's been a long and difficult journey, but the end result will outweigh the spilled sweat hopefully over and over again. Much power and wisdom in making the right choices! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U92	On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Henn Põlluaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U93	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitution is the basic document of the state just above the law, which lays down the objectives of the government of the state, the rights and obligations of citizens and much more, of which you as members of the Riigikogu are certainly aware. The Constitution is not a document that can be changed with easy hands. If so, the change must have a significant positive impact on social development or security. The change currently proposed does not have a significant positive impact on the development of society; rather, it would give certain circles the opportunity to cut out political professionalism and manipulate increasingly younger people for political purposes. Political decisions must not simply be popular for a particular group, but must, in general, create specific public goods, in other words, make life in Estonia better. What a universal and public good it creates to lower the age of choice for society will not be understood, all the more so as the number of young people interested in it is small and there is no demand or need for it in society at large. Will we next remove other justified age restrictions? Much is said about inclusion. There are undoubtedly very good young people among the additional voters, whose readiness and education are impeccable and sufficient to participate in local elections, but this certainly does not apply to the majority that this change is intended to involve in the electoral process. This means, however, that, in addition to the desired result, the amendment to the Constitution also has unintended consequences, which must not be closed to eyes. Firstly, this law will have a significant impact not on the development of democracy in Estonia, but rather on the replay of political lines of power in the next local elections. Secondly, the issue of election age is certainly not a burning issue in Estonia's life, but it requires a change in the constitution. It sends the wrong signal to society as if it could change the Constitution at an easy hand to resolve third- or fourth-level issues. Thirdly, the cornerstone of our regime is representative democracy. This means realising the will of the people through a democratic system characterised by expertise, competence, life experience and political maturity. The impact of reducing the selection time on this is questionable, if not negative. The involvement of young people in society and decision-making is of course necessary and must move in this direction, but this can be done through the development of civil society, not by changing the practice and constitution that justified itself. By the way, the result of the current Postimees survey is that 70% of respondents are opposed to reducing the selection age. The Conservative People's Party is of the opinion that it is neither justified nor necessary to reduce the electoral age. In order to amend the Constitution, if there are grounds for doing so, there is a need for wider acceptance of society; for this purpose road roller tactics must not be used in the Riigikogu Hall. I expect honourable colleagues to behave in this respect in a country-manly manner and I hope that they will not support the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U94	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. The Constitution assures us: the state, it is the whole nation. If we want and demand something from our country, we will first demand it from ourselves. Therefore, the amendment of the Constitution is a very responsible step. Making every single change requires not only the feeling of today, but also the courage to watch and understand tomorrow. The Constitution is the basis of our lives and this vote is a sort of historic moment. The amendment voted on today is probably not the most important of the corrections that our constitution needs, but it is on our table and we must either approve it or reject it. Before such a historic moment, look into yourself for a moment. Let us look at ourselves and think about whether our political culture is what we now want and what we expect in the Republic of Estonia. We all remember that when the Republic of Estonia was restored, all the ambassadors, whether they belonged to the coalition or the opposition, stood as one man for big and important decisions. Now I am amazed at the way in which the major decisions that are important to the state and are serious about matters as well as some less important decisions, such as division into councils or decision-making bodies, are colliding like a wall. And this wall is not the wall of Toompea Castle. It is a wall that we have built ourselves between the coalition and the opposition. It has been sad and embarrassing to feel and to see that we cannot look at the same Estonian country and these serious issues as one man, but we are dividing up and creating a division of opposition and coalition in those matters where it should not be. I am not saying at all that all members of the Riigikogu should think and feel the same way. Different opinions lead to life, but the approach must be constructive, everything must be debated. There's got to be a place for differences of opinion in this hall, so we can move on together. The constitutional amendment to be voted on today has many counter-arguments and pro-arguments. We can say that young people are not mature, they can slip, they may have problems with themselves, how they then suddenly vote and choose local councils. But if we say so, let's think that a gray head might slip, we all know that very well. We also know that trust is an important moment that is losing our country's life in many areas and activities. We know that we all age, and the one we can trust is youth. If we don't trust young people, we don't trust the teaching we've given them. I am not going to continue reading the pros and cons here, because everyone still votes the way he thinks it is. However, I would like to say two more things on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The Riigikogu should vote on matters that concern not only the Constitution but also the whole of Estonia and the people through the Constitution, so that we do not think about the opposition and coalition in particular, but try to show a new political culture. Members of the Free Party will vote on this matter according to their own conscience and how they feel better for the Estonian state and its future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U96	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U97	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests on the balconies! For years, the Social Democrats have stood for the debate to be active on the issue of reducing the electoral age and for it not to disappear from other important issues to the background. Our programme already foreseen in 2011 that the elections would bring 2013 down for local elections. This train has unfortunately gone, but now we have a new goal in mind so that young people can be chosen in the next local elections. Today, unfortunately, those under 18 years of age do not have the opportunity to actively express their political support and views. It is certainly not right, however, to say that youth associations are not in a position to influence policy at all. Young people are aware of politics after completing comprehensive school and have taken active steps to participate in it, for example by setting up youth councils or organizing shadow elections. So we can safely claim that young people themselves have been most active in this direction so that they can participate more and more in important decisions. Like adults, every young person may not be directly interested in politics, but a good life in the area should be a desire of everyone. The right to vote at the age of 16 gives young people the opportunity to contribute to what this good life should look like in their home area. In doing so, we would point out that the aim is to add value to our democracy without taking anything away from anyone or harming anyone. They always say people give their vote in the elections. Young people are also the people of our small and wonderful Estonia, and we must also give them the opportunity to appreciate the work of politicians and shape their own future. The possibility certainly involves responsibility, but it is not to be afraid. Indeed, the opportunity to vote means a certain responsibility to guide the development of the region. The voice of a young person must also reach important decisions of local government in a clear way. After all, we all hope that these same young people will remain in our country and that they will also have faith in their region and its development. The possibility of deciding and knowing that local affairs can be shared and shared responsibility for their development will certainly encourage many young people to stay or return to their area of residence. I'm sure everyone wants a self-government that looks just like him and that takes him into account. We take it for granted that young people aged 16 or over could have the right to vote in local elections. Young people of this age are already socially mature enough to make their own choice in the elections. By the way, this is not a mere argument. Sociological research has shown that our young people are fully prepared for the elections. Compared to peers from other countries, young people in Estonia have higher than average civic competence. Our young people's values also support democracy. A 16-year-old Estonian youth would not be the first person in the world to have the opportunity to make a decisive contribution at this age. The previous speakers have already said this, but I stress that the elections have also reached 16 years of age in other countries. A good example is Austria, where it is possible to vote both at local and national level, and even at the elections to the European Parliament and to the President. This year, young people in Malta aged 16 or over will have the opportunity to vote in municipal elections for the first time. But there are other examples of life itself. Thus, at the age of 16, some German federal states have a choice at local level, so young people were tested in Norway in 2011 and again in Norway this year. A good foreign example is also the Scottish Independence referendum, which may have contributed to decision-making at the age of 16. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U98	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U99	Finally, I would like to give an example of Estonia itself. In 1990, Estonia was one of the first countries in the world to allow the 16-year-olds to elect a national representative body. I would like to remind the MPs here that 16-year-olds were also entitled to vote in the elections to the Estonian Congress. The 16-year-old vote could also contribute to the restoration of our statehood. I believe that it is perfectly normal for them to be able to do so now also at local level. I would also like to point out that all young people in Estonia would be affected in the same way by the reduction of the election age, as young people could choose regardless of their nationality. In this way, such elections can have a broader integrative effect. Any young person who is interested in his or her home country can also contribute to this through voting, thus creating a local level of governance that is consistent with a common understanding among young people. The reduction of the electoral age will certainly have a wider impact on society as a whole, including political parties. As we know, our population is ageing, reducing the age of choice helps to balance the interests of younger and older people. I am convinced that this will also affect the choices of political parties in their policy making. In local elections, it is possible to keep in touch between the MP and the electorate, and politicians must strive for confidence in representative democracy for young people. We are facing an extremely important change today, which I consider to be very important, and the whole Group of the Social Democratic Party considers to be extremely important. We have an opportunity and an obligation to contribute to the continuity of Estonian democracy and its development. We are taking a step today so that young people too can decide on the course of their home country. However, today's step must certainly be followed by steps to complement civic education in our curricula so that both students and teachers can accept innovation more easily. The Social Democratic Party supports the lowering of the electoral threshold to 16 years of age. I hope that's what you guys are gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U100	On behalf of the Centre Party Group Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Much has been said about the lowering of the age of election in society, and its most enthusiastic supporters are not the young people affected by this decision, but the politicians to whom this change can bring the most direct benefits. Today we are in a position to change even the Constitution. At the same time, much more important issues, such as the direct election of the President, have been constantly raised as a counter argument that it is very difficult to change the Constitution. As we can see, this is not about the complexity of amending the Constitution. The Centre Party does not see the need to amend the Constitution, as active young people already have the opportunity to participate in the work of advisory bodies of the state and local governments, youth organisations, student and student associations. In the opinion of the Centre Party, instead of lowering the election age limit, the work of youth councils belonging to urban and rural councils should be encouraged and more involved in the work of council committees. Such a proposal to amend the law on the organisation of local government was made by our political party in the previous Riigikogu, but unfortunately this proposal did not receive the support of coalition partners. It is still unclear why 16-year-olds who are supposedly mature to choose and who are not able to make other important decisions in their lives in the eyes of the law. We know that 16-year-olds cannot get married or drive independently. How, then, will they be able to decipher the problems of local life and speak with a voice in their resolution? If we give 16- and 17-year-olds the right to vote in the election of local governments, the question will inevitably arise as to why we will not give the same old young people the right to stand for themselves in elections. So far, no one has been able to give an adequate answer to this question. It is a desire to get votes from young people in elections and to exclude them from the rest of the decision-making process, because they cannot belong to councils. The saddest thing is that lowering the selection time limit can be done again using a roller. The law will be adopted without paying attention to the broader analysis and activities that should accompany the whole process. The Chairman of the Estonian Association of History and Society Teachers is of the opinion that 16-year-olds are not ready to choose. According to him, 16 and 17 years of age are very influential and they themselves say that they cannot choose and take a stand. Lowering the election age should certainly require better preparation of young people for elections. The curriculum needs to be reviewed and a program of social studies adapted to the age of the students developed. The electoral competence currently available in comprehensive school is limited. The level of education and counselling is not only needed by students, but also by teachers. It must, of course, be taken into account that young people need this knowledge before, and not after, the elections. If you look at other European countries, participation in the 16-year-old elections is the exception rather than the rule. Many countries are still experimenting on whether to allow young people to vote in elections like this. In Germany, for example, 16-year-olds can participate in local elections in the Länder. In 2011 20 municipalities were granted the right to vote in Norway from the age of 16 onwards and it is planned to do so again. This shows how carefully the countries are considering their own steps before taking a decision, and it is not a matter of hastily starting to lower the elections. The only country in which 16-year-olds can choose both in local elections and in parliamentary elections is Austria. A number of studies against lowering the election age limit point out that the first electoral experience is very important, as those who go to choose when the first chance is opened will most likely remain in the process of choosing. The results so far have shown that young people aged 18 to 24 are the least active electoral group. Now, if you lower the age bar, the country will produce more people who are not going to vote and which could lead to a decrease in the participation rate of the elections from year to year. In the opinion of the Centre Party Group, it is not necessary to change the constitution in order to involve young people in the organisation of local life. The ambassadors of the Centre Party do not support the amendment of the Constitution or vote in favour of the amendment of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U102	There is no further wish for negotiations. We are preparing the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, since this bill requires a three-fifths majority of the Riigikogu's membership to be adopted as a law, please make a presence check! Easy! 93 members of the Riigikogu are present, no 8. Honourable Riigikogu, I will final vote on a draft law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia to reduce the election age of the local government council elections. Please take a stand and vote. (Very long applause) There are 62 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft, against 10, with 2 abstentions. The draft law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia has been adopted as a law. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U103	Our next item is the first reading of the draft law on insurance business initiated by the Government of the Republic. The presentation is made on behalf of the Government of the Republic by Minister of Finance Sven Sester. [[It's buzzing in the hall.]] The manager takes a one-minute break so that the ambassadors can get out of their emotions and devote themselves to insurance activities. Break, one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U104	On behalf of the initiators of the bill, the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! I'll give you an overview of the Act on Insurance Activities, which bears number 8. This is the first reading of the draft. Here are some points that are directly related to a specific draft law. The government has submitted a new draft law on insurance business to discuss with you, which is the new full text of the law. The law currently in force has been adopted in 2004. The new law was developed for two reasons. The main driver is the EU-wide reform of the insurance sector, the Solvency II project. In this context, the draft essentially transposes two insurance directives. Another incentive is to remedy the shortcomings that have been revealed in the current law over time. In particular, the Solvency II Directive does not entail a direct need to make changes to all the issues covered by the Act, such as the section on licences, insurance mediation and the bankruptcy of insurance undertakings. These are issues where changes were primarily based on national needs. The draft passed the first reading of the previous Riigikogu in January, but fell out of Riigikogu proceedings due to the end of the mandate. Now for details on the bill. The draft Act on Insurance Activities is a classic law on the financial sector, which regulates the establishment of an insurance undertaking and the requirements for its activities, as well as its owners and management, capital requirements, winding-up, supervision and liability. The objective of the Act is to ensure that the insurance company established in Estonia is tax-intensive, sustainable, well-managed and transparent in its activities. The services provided to residents and businesses in the insurance sector, whether they are protected in the event of an accident or the payment of a pension, form part of our safety net. A reliable and well-functioning insurance market is therefore very important. The credibility of the market will also increase with increased transparency, which is one of the objectives of a specific draft law. Insurers will need to provide more information on the risk profile of their business and performance as well as on the need for capital. This will ensure that insurance customers receive adequate information to make their choices and that the supervisor, now the Financial Supervision Authority, is better informed. The new law will certainly facilitate the functioning of the European Union's common market in the insurance sector, as the underlying European Union legislation harmonises requirements across Europe. This will make insurance services more accessible to Estonian clients, while broadening the possibilities for Estonian insurers to provide their services in other European countries and will certainly improve supervision and cooperation between them. Additional requirements will also apply to insurance intermediaries. The regulation of insurance mediation forms one comprehensive chapter in the draft and its wording has been updated, harmonised. Changes have been made on the basis of the objective that insurance intermediaries must be loyal to the customer and professional in their activities. It is also important that supervision has sufficient opportunities to intervene where necessary. Estonian insurers and financial supervisory authorities are already preparing to implement the new requirements and the stress tests so far suggest that capital requirements are increasing, but Estonian insurers are relatively capitalised enough. It is likely that insurers will need some IT developments and additional recruitment and training of staff, which will require a sufficiently long implementation period between the adoption of the law and its entry into force. It would therefore be important for the law to be adopted before the end of the current spring season. The law would enter into force on 1 January 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U106	Any questions for the initiator of the bill? Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, The draft law on insurance business has an impact, in particular, on insurance companies and also on the Financial Supervision Authority. Insurance companies or consumers of insurance services, when they look at this voluminous draft and explanatory memorandum, will certainly be asked what the impact of this law will be on their wallets in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U108	Thank you. This effect on your nature may increase. The impact will increase mainly due to the fact that insurers really have a need and an obligation to train their staff to better understand the customer's future needs, as well as new IT solutions. In practice, however, the determination of insurance levels to a customer is mainly linked to the possible distribution of bonuses and is not specifically concerned here. And depending on the premiums to be collected and the possible damages that have been paid during the period, prices are set on the basis of the so-called price policy logic of one or the other insurance undertaking. The law itself, imposing some obligations on insurers, minimally, but to some extent, however, changes the potential pricing policy, but certainly not as much as looking at risks.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U109	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U110	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. The programmes of all Estonian political parties, as well as the agreement of the Government Association, state that they support cooperative activities. In Europe there is a very common cooperative form of insurance, i.e. mutual insurance, or mutual insurance in Estonian. There's no such thing in this law. Why isn't it there, and couldn't it still be there?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U111	Thank you for your question. In fact, the opposite is true. The opposite is mainly due to the fact that such mutual or cooperative insurance in Europe is more likely to decline slightly. It must be acknowledged that according to the Insurance Act adopted in 1992, mutual insurance companies could be made in Estonia. The Commercial Code, which entered into force in 1995, amended that provision. In Europe, the Solvency II Directive actually allows you to have insurance cooperatives and mutual insurance companies. There are certain differences that apply under the Solvency II Directive. However, it is now apparent that there has been a situation, in particular because of Solvency II, where this form of insurance clearly shows a downward trend. We also had this issue up in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I think that if there is a desire to start a discussion on whether we could restore the three-year insurance cooperative phase in force in the first half of the 1990s, it can certainly be done and discussed in the future. However, we are now in a situation where we have a duty to transpose directives and financial supervision has a duty to review certain regulations. In the case of insurance cooperatives, it may be expected that we should then analyse their impact separately. Rather, I call on you to create a background for this debate and consider the pros and cons of the re-establishment of insurance cooperatives in different forms.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U112	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U113	Mr President! Dear Minister, I will continue with the subject begun by the previous speaker. This really is a necessary debate, as the Minister said. Minister, please explain and tell me whether you think insurance cooperatives are needed in Estonia! If necessary, is there a need for a separate law, or would it still be useful to supplement the law currently under discussion by a chapter?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U114	The introduction of such a possibility for mutual insurance companies in the draft would clearly be a major change, which no one can deny here. Consequently, it should certainly be analysed what such a change will entail. I think that, in view of the desire to transpose these directives, we must also take into account that the Act on Insurance Activities was already in the process during the previous Riigikogu, and it was then assumed that the law could be passed within a specific period. I do not think that, at such a rapid pace, it is possible to carry out an analysis or to take a decision as to whether we want to introduce a separate chapter. If the analysis shows that we could come up with improvements in the form of legislative changes, why not? But the analysis must definitely have been done before that. Just to make an emotional decision that I like it, or vice versa, I don't like it, it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U115	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U116	Honourable Chairman! Dear Minister, I understand that there is an unresolved problem in the draft proposed by the government concerning travel agents. According to the draft, the travel company will also have to publish a commission on travel insurance contracts if it adds travel insurance to the package. The problem is that the normal interchange fee for travel services is repeatedly lower than the travel insurance interchange fee, such is a well-established practice, and travel operators do not want to be allowed to develop in a situation where the amount of travel insurance interchange fee will be associated with the size of the total interchange fee for travel operators. How can we solve this problem so that travel agents can operate normally?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U117	Thank you. Passenger companies can operate normally, have acted before and will continue to operate in the future. In my opinion, it is very gratifying that travel agents have developed a clear channel of selling insurance products, which is linked to travel insurance. It must be borne in mind here that if we look at terms such as 'insurer', 'agent' and 'broker', then the travel agency is essentially an agent, which in turn means that if you are an agent, you are a representative of the insurance company's interests. They're the ones you represent. If you're a broker, you're a representative of the client's interests. A distinction has been made for travel agencies to enable them to choose whether they are representatives of one insurance undertaking or are representatives of several insurance undertakings. Since it is an insurance undertaking and not a customer's representative, it is also subject to special provisions. If he is a representative of a single insurer, he does not have to publish his fees because it is clear that he is linked to a single undertaking, a single insurer. If he is a representative of several insurers, the customer wonders why he recommends one or the other insurer. Hence, questions of remuneration also arise on the table. These are clearly set out in the draft and the interests of the client have also been taken into account very clearly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U118	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U119	Thank you. Mr. Minister! We rely on such a hypothetical situation that two people have the idea of entering into an insurance contract with each other. For example, me and my penguin Herkel decide that one of us will secure you against some danger. My question to you is whether the Estonian laws currently in force would allow us to conclude such an agreement among ourselves. If this is allowed, the answer is positive, then the second part of the question is whether the current or future law on insurance activities, which we are currently discussing, will somehow relate to this agreement between us. If the answer to this question is no, is there something in Estonian law that we should follow when concluding an agreement with each other?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U120	Thank you. That's a good question. I think that two people, as individuals, can make any kind of arrangement if they remain agreements between two people. You can agree to give each other money, it's not forbidden, it's not going into banking business. Also for all other contractual relations, which you two have agreed on, which both parties agree on and which are not expected to conflict with the general rules in force, I see no problem at all. When it comes to broader insurance activity, i.e. you are already starting a business activity, customers must also have protection mechanisms. You will be obliged to comply with certain requirements. It is just as in the banking case that if a banking licence is to be obtained, there are certain requirements that must be met. It gives the client a sense of security that once he's deposited the money in the bank, it doesn't go away. It is similar to insurance companies. It must be taken into account that insurance companies actually sell insurance cover. One of the most important logics of Solvency II is that it must be very clear how one or the other insurance undertaking, for example, has managed its risks. It hasn't been mapped yet. Two insurance undertakings with exactly the same size of the client portfolio may be in completely different positions due to their risk management. This is what will be monitored under Solvency II. In answer to your question, I think that if you still want to provide a service as such, you should also start meeting the requirements of the programmes. That makes sense because it also protects the customer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U121	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U122	As this issue of cooperative insurance arose, I would like to say that one of the specific features of cooperative insurance in Europe, and especially in America, is that it is uncertain. Cooperatives just don't pay out money, it's their specialty. They can't pay if they really want to. Standard insurance cases relate to icturity, drought, real estate and other such matters. For example, if our fish had been co-insured, Estonian fish farming would have ended by now. Now the question. It's more radical than I think, but I'm starting to think that way, driven by what I'm saying. Is the cooperative insurance as such not something that should simply be banned? For the simple reason that the idea of cooperative insurance is to get money and not pay, that's all he's been created for.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U123	Thank you, good Igor! As usual, there are different politicians and different opinions on different benches. You see, within ten minutes, there have been radically different opinions. This shows all the more that if we wanted to actually enforce one or the other measure by law, it means that we should also carry out the analysis that the introduction of one or the other measure will lead to, whether it is accompanied by certain positive or, on the contrary, by negative changes. Today I do not take the right to say whether the creation of insurance cooperatives in Estonia would be a negative measure or a positive measure. If it is felt that there is a desire and willingness to carry out analyses in this regard and to come back to this issue in the future, then it should be taken into account that Europe currently has the opportunity to create mutual insurance companies. However, as I said in my introduction, this is clearly a decreasing trend. According to the European Commission's own assessment, the entry into force of the Solvency II regime will also tilt this trend further towards a decline, which does not mean that there is no debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U124	Thank you. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U125	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Minister! For Igor's information, that is essentially what we are prohibited from doing, because the current law and the current bill do not allow it. However, to the Minister, I have a question from another area. The supervisory power of the Financial Supervision Authority extends according to the draft law. How much does this entail administrative burdens for private companies and how much is the state apparatus and its costs increasing?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U126	Thank you. The Financial Supervision Authority itself has stated what its priorities are. These are that a specific draft is adopted in time for policyholders to be protected, with a uniform attitude and legal clarity. Yeah, it brings more administrative burden, that's clear. As disclosure requires a higher volume of data, it is in turn necessary to protect the interests of customers, it clearly increases the burden on those active in this market. Once again, however, we must always look at whether the aim is to increase administrative bureaucracy or to increase confidence. If we look at the fact that the purpose of data disclosure is to understand the willingness of one or the other of the companies operating on the market, the level of credit and all other positions that provide an opportunity to assess both the level of risk and the protection of the client, then it can be said that data volumes are not such as to increase the administrative burden so exponentially that the package of such measures should not be regularised.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U127	Colleagues Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'll continue with my last question. Once again, if a travel agency sells a package that includes hotels and transport, the commission is repeatedly lower than the commission paid on travel insurance. This is the current practice. In this case, travel agents will start to prefer the option where they only mediate one travel insurance provider, because then they will not have to publish a commission. That's why I'm asking you how this situation can be in the interests of the customers, as you said before.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U129	Good member of the Riigikogu! If money is taken from the customer and is not represented but represented by the insurer, it is in the client's interest to find out why one travel agency has proposed: select this company. It is in the interest of the client to find out why such a decision is made. If you're out as a broker for the interests of a client, you're going to offer him such-like actions and suggestions. If you're under agent status, you're out for insurance. Even if you have several insurers, you're out for the insurance company's interests. It follows that if you propose several insurers, the client should understand why you are making one or another offer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U130	Thank you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U131	Thank you. Dear Minister, The fact that the share of insurance cooperatives is decreasing in Europe does not say anything about why this possibility was ruled out in Estonia at the time. Were there any abuses at the beginning of the 1990s, do you have any such knowledge? How do you think the fact that the share of domestic insurance companies in the market is very low is linked to the fact that insurance cooperatives cannot act on us, that Mr Adams and I cannot offer you a service?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U132	Thank you, good questioner! As I said before, the subject is not a taboo as such. That means why not analyze it? The Ministry of Finance has neither carried out a separate analysis in the interim years nor in the framework of this draft for the revitalisation of mutual insurance companies. It is not, therefore, a very good picture of the revival of an opportunity that now disappeared from the market 20 years ago, having been there for a very short period of time, in three years. But that doesn't mean we can't have a debate or an analysis. I sense that you have a clear interest in discussing this issue further, and I think it is a healthy interest. I call on you here to hold this debate in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U133	My colleague Jüri Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U134	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I understand from your answer that you believe that Mr Herkel and I can make a one-off non-professional insurance contract. Unfortunately, you decided to keep a secret answer to my question to the other side of how it would relate to this bill or anything else. I would now go a little further with the question: Mr Herkel and I are taking in more people and making a mutual insurance association. On this point, you said, as in the case of the Ministry of Finance, there is a large minus that there are eligibility criteria. I agree that this may be the case. But let's take a little look at this from a legal point of view. Do you think that our idea of making such a mutual insurance cooperative is linked to the right of all kinds of economic initiatives mentioned in the second chapter of the Constitution? From other answers, it turned out that it is essentially forbidden. So what is this important criterion? The prohibition should be justified in a democratic society, I think says this place of the Constitution, and the content of the right to be prohibited or restricted must not be distorted. How would you explain this legal aspect in relation to the idea of setting up a mutual insurance cooperative?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U135	Thank you, good questioner! When we talk about banning, one of the questioners spoke more about the subject that they should not actually be allowed, and also pointed out some of his arguments as to why he felt that way. I've rather been the one who's given you the facts. The fact is that the new Commercial Code amended those provisions in 1995. I'd like to put my personal views aside right now. If you ask me what I think, I would not comment on this. It is true that the best comments can only come when an in-depth analysis has been carried out and, consequently, decisions can be taken. Give me a chance not to give my opinion right now, would you?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U136	Colleagues Artur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U137	Thank you! Good minister! I understand from what you've said, there's a huge increase in regulation in the insurance world. How much does this increasing administrative burden make it difficult for new players to enter the market? I am talking not only about cooperatives, but also about other insurance companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U138	Thank you. In all sectors, not only in insurance, but in all sectors, where licences are required, including for example the banking sector, there is always a need to meet some requirements, as this is the protection of the interests of the customer. The requirements are currently being reviewed in the light of the new directives. And there are no restrictions in any business sector, including the insurance sector. It is still a free market economy. If you meet certain requirements, you will be able to come to the insurance market or to the banking market. The market is never stuck for anyone. The question is that, in the light of the new rules, the situation is clearer and more understandable for the customer due to disclosure and capital requirements, but at the same time the requirements have created a situation where the market entry must take into account that its capital needs, its reporting obligations, are greater. Yes, I say that the newcomer must certainly take account of the changes that are arising from the directive and which are being taken over by us. These changes are purely and clearly in the interest of the customer. It is also a similar issue in banking, if we look at the years, then we see changes in the banking sector, both in legislation and in capital collection reserves. For example, we can mention a deposit guarantee system that perhaps did not exist before. In sectors where the customer's interest must be clearly and very strongly protected, and this interest is expressed not only in a one-day transaction but in a long-term process, it is very natural to review disclosure and other requirements, the minimum requirements that need to be met in order to be able to enter this market at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U139	Thank you, Minister of Finance. No more questions for you. I would now like to ask for a presentation by Mr Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, representative of the lead committee in the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U140	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you at first reading the draft law on insurance business 8 initiated by the Government of the Republic on 27 April. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft at two meetings: 28 April and 4 May. In the last meeting of the Commission, the Minister for Finance also provided very detailed explanations on the draft. I will give an overview of the discussions that took place in these two meetings in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. To remind you once again that the same bill was already discussed by the previous composition of the Riigikogu, but it fell out of the procedure due to the end of the term of office of the XII Riigikogu. This was discussed with interest groups in the Riigikogu at the beginning of this year, on 13 January. The Round Table was attended by the Association of Estonian Insurance Associations, the Association of Estonian Insurance Brokers, the Association of Estonian Liising Associations and the Association of Estonian Tourism Companies, as well as officials of the Financial Supervision Authority and the Ministry of Finance. The two issues that were reflected in today's debate between the Minister and members of the Riigikogu were also raised in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. These concerned mediation in the triangle 'broker, agency and leasing agent'. In fact, the most important thing for this triangle is the consumer, the customer, who should have the widest possible freedom of choice, good provision and service in insurance. The second set of topics discussed in depth by the Committee on Monetary Affairs included tourism companies and interchange fees, which were also asked about here before the Minister. A possible conflict of interest was also raised. One Member of the Commission asked how the customer knew that the insurer would not pay the broker a fee that would motivate one company to be recommended. The originator's response was that such a conflict of interest would be mitigated by the broker's obligation to disclose the amount of commission, the obligation to act in the interest of the client, the obligation of loyalty, which is then otherwise guaranteed by sanctions and internal rules. There was also a question of equality in insurance relations as to whether premiums for men and women could vary. The answer is unambiguously no and it is already a result of European Union law. In the same way, we spoke in the Committee on Monetary Affairs about cooperative activities, which were also touched on in this Chamber of the Riigikogu today. In this regard, the Minister of Finance has already made a comment. It was also examined how much of the Estonian insurance market is in the hands of Estonian capital. Two insurance companies in Salva and Inges, which are in the hands of Estonian capital, account for 4% of the market share. They asked how to ensure that the insurer does not go bankrupt. You could say 99.5% of that wouldn't happen. Risk requirements, supervision, capital requirements, all of this gives assurance that there is a risk that an insurance company could go bankrupt in Estonia, reduced to a minimum. All insurance companies are supervised by the Financial Supervision Authority. At least on the basis of the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I can safely conclude that this supervision is working and that the market is also working. As a result of these discussions, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft and set the deadline for amendments at 10 working days, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 20 May 2015. These decisions were consensual. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U141	There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much. I'm opening negotiations. Representative of the Estonian Free Party Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U142	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, What the new draft law on insurance activities contains, we have heard briefly from the rapporteurs today, and this has been discussed in greater detail in the Commission with the participation of specialists from the Ministry of Finance. In the opinion of the Free Party Group, however, what is more important is what is not in this draft. In fact, as has already emerged from today's questions and answers, it is currently not possible to create insurance cooperatives, i.e. mutual insurance companies, and their formation is unfortunately not legalised by the current draft. The purpose of such insurance cooperatives is to provide their members with the necessary services at a fair price. There are several types of mutual insurance activities in the Member States of the European Union. There are national mutual insurance companies, which also have to comply with requirements similar to those of the insurance company, and there are small local mutual insurance companies with limited capital requirements and activities. There are also mutual health insurance companies and there is a separate system in the maritime sector. These mutual insurance companies are not only a historical or historical phenomenon, but are quite common in Central Europe and the Nordic countries in particular. They have the largest market share in Finland. Interestingly, for example, Swedbank's largest owner of 9,45% of shares is the Swedish mutual insurance company Folksam. As a historical excursion, before the Soviet occupation, such cooperative insurance activities were very common in Estonia. And it turns out that the legal regime currently in force in Estonia, which allows an insurer to be established only as a public limited company or as a European company, is rather very common in Europe. Only five countries in Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Lithuania and Slovakia do not allow mutual insurance companies. What is considered to be the strength of such an insurance cooperative? In particular, its flexibility and efficiency. Experts have indicated that in countries where such a form of business exists, the range of services offered on the insurance market is much more varied and pricing is more flexible than in Estonia today. For example, professors of insurance law Olavi-Jüri Luik have suggested that it would be appropriate to use the insurance cooperative principle in the development of the insurance system for accidents at work and occupational diseases. Such a local mutual insurance company would also, among other things, make it possible to improve access to services for a more price sensitive population. It is not quite clear, and it is not quite clear here today either why modern Estonian legal and economic policy denies such mutual insurance activities. This is particularly confusing for me because I think that, since all parties in this Chamber, and especially those belonging to the government coalition, have spoken and talked about the protection of the business environment, the protection of freedom to conduct a business, the promotion of the business environment and the guarantee of competition, such authorisation of insurance cooperatives would probably favour this business environment and the protection of the freedom to conduct a business, and would certainly strengthen Estonian civil society as well. So the view of the Free Party Group is that the establishment of mutual insurance companies should be relegated, either in the form of a new chapter of the draft or through a separate law. It would, of course, be interesting to look at the facts supporting Mr Gräzin's argumentation before making a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-06_U143	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiation, I will conclude the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 8. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 8 amendments. May 20th, 5.15 p.m. Today's trial is over. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 3.26 p.m.
