ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 10th working week. Do colleagues have a desire to pass on drafts or enquiries? There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Ladies and gentlemen, now the announcements. Attention! Today, after the plenary session, the assembly will meet in the Chamber for the establishment of the following parliamentary groups: firstly, Estonia-Canada, convener Eerik-Niles Kross; secondly, Estonian-Kuba, convener Eerik-Niles Kross. Incoming check, please! 75 members of the Riigikogu are present, 26.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U2	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Appointing a Member of the National Broadcasting Council of Estonia" submitted by the Committee on Culture. Please waitress Laine Randjärve, Chairman of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu decided at its meeting on 23 November to initiate a draft decision of the Riigikogu to appoint a new member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council. Due to the early termination of the mandate of Priit Toobal's member of the Riigikogu and the resignation of the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu is obliged to appoint a new member to the Supervisory Board pursuant to § 15 (4) of the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act. The Riigikogu Central Party Group made the Committee on Culture...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U4	Colleagues, attention! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U5	... a proposal to appoint Enn Eesmaa, member of the Riigikogu, as a new member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council. Enn Eesmaa has agreed in writing to be appointed to the Council and has confirmed that there are no conflicts arising from the law in order to appoint him. The Commission decided by consensus to initiate this draft. On the basis of § 117 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the draft decision of the Riigikogu is discussed at a single reading. We ask the Committee on Culture to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U6	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 150 and we are going to the final vote. I vote on the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the nomination of a member of the Riigikogu of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council 150. Please take a stand and vote. 70 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, no one opposed, with 4 abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U7	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the first reading of draft 102 of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I shall also briefly present the procedure for this item on the agenda. First, the author of the draft report is up to 20 minutes, then questions can be asked. The presentation of the representative of the commission will be followed for up to 20 minutes and questions can also be asked. I would point out that a member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the rapporteurs. Representatives of political groups and committees can participate in the negotiations. We will also hold a final vote, which will require a majority of the composition. I would now like a presentation from Riigikogu member Andrei Novikov!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U8	Honourable Vice President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! There are often words in this Chamber that express concern about the health of children and young people. At the same time, however, the legislator has mostly remained at the level of rhetoric, and words are rarely translated into action. The Estonian Centre Party Group hereby also proposes practical steps to protect the health of children and young people. Honourable Riigikogu! I ask for your support for the decision proposing to the Government of the Republic to develop a draft banning the sale of energy drinks to young people under 16 years of age. This would make it a real limit for energy drinks to not be available to young people who may not understand their harm. An energy drink is a non-alcoholic drink containing more than 150 milligrams of caffeine per litre or more than 150 milligrams of caffeine per litre with some central nervous system stimulants. Most EU countries already have recommendations to inform them that the consumption of energy drinks at a young age can have negative consequences. The Commission Directive on the labelling of foodstuffs containing quinine and caffeine is currently in force in the countries of the European Union. According to this, beverages containing more than 150 millilitres of caffeine per litre must bear the indication 'high caffeine content' in the same field of vision as the product's name. From 13 December 2014, high-caffeinated drinks or foods to which caffeine has been added shall be labelled as follows: 'High-caffeinated content. Not recommended for children, pregnant or breast-feeding women. ' This indication must be in the same field of vision as the name of the drink. In addition, there must be a reference to the caffeine content. Thus, it is clear that caffeine - containing drinks can have harmful effects. At EU level, the legislator has already taken proactive steps to demonstrate the importance of this problem, and now businesses have also noticed the problem. In fact, life has shown that some businesses have voluntarily restricted the availability of energy drinks. For example, on 30 August 2012, Rimi's chain of stores banned the sale of energy drinks to under 16-year-olds, which set an example for the rest of Estonia. Other major supermarkets, such as Selver, Prisma and Maxima, have found that such restrictions should be provided by law that there is no point in imposing restrictions on their own. The legislator's initiative is therefore clearly expected. In May 2014, Lithuania, as the first country in the European Union, prohibited the sale of such beverages to people under 18 years of age. However, since the honourable Riigikogu, the Estonian legislator, has assumed that since the age of 16, the average Estonian is smart and able to make informed choices, such as choosing a local government council, let's not be as harsh as Lithuania and limit the sale and consumption of energy drinks to those under 16 years of age and not to those under 18. This is ultimately a question of choices, but it is important to take the first step. Therefore, if, for example, you do not think that 16 is an adequate age, then this age may be 18, but let's not wait here, but let's take this first step. Taking into account the harmful effects of energy drinks, expert recommendations, entrepreneurial initiative and previous examples, we consider that Estonia must ban the sale of energy drinks to under 16-year-olds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U9	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U10	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, On 24 November, the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic. The representative of the Centre Party Group Andrei Novikov gave an overview of the content of the draft decision. The purpose of the draft is to propose to the Government of the Republic a draft law to impose a ban on the sale of energy drinks to young people under 16 years of age. The members of the Commission listened to the explanations of the initiator, expressed their views and asked questions. The opinion was expressed that it would be easier for the initiators to hand over the draft themselves in the plenary. However, the initiator was of the opinion that the opposition's proposed drafts would not work, so the draft law could be initiated by the government. The representative of the Ministry of Rural Affairs pointed out that the data contained in the draft explanatory memorandum had become obsolete. He pointed out that energy drinks are currently the most popular among 15- to 18-year-olds, which would result in a ban on under 16-year-olds not fulfilling their objective. In the Commission, the ban on energy drinks was called into question as it is a very narrow product group. The problem is high-sugar drinks in general. In addition, according to the Ministry's representative, it must also be taken into account that, when such a ban is imposed, large producers may sue the State. For example, in Lithuania, where this ban has been regularised, producers have sued the country and this process is currently running there. The Commission unanimously decided to propose a draft to be placed on the plenary agenda today, to appoint Mr Aivar Kokk as rapporteur and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote. I would point out that the draft requires 51 votes in favour for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U11	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, How do you think the government is planning to take such measures at any time and to restrict the sale of energy drinks in Estonia to some extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U13	As we discussed in the Commission, it is not only energy drinks that are involved here, but there are many products that may not be good to consume. At the same time, as the Commission said through the prism of humor, it is the most dangerous thing to sleep because people die the most when they sleep. But when we talk about caffeine, sugar consumption, and all that, there may also be a question of whether young people should not buy coffee or bread at the store, because there is either caffeine or sugar too much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U14	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U15	Thank you. Historians have such a joke that the most popular subject of research is the history of shipping in all the seas of the world through all the ages. Did the Commission decide to ban all harmful things at the same time and with a single law?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U16	No, the Commission did not make such decisions, but I believe that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Rural Affairs are currently working on this issue. It needs to be reviewed and to identify those products which are harmful to young people and which are to be banned. In the European Union, apart from Lithuania, no country has yet made such a decision, and Lithuania is being tried for it. We should wait for the outcome of the Lithuanian trial and then move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U17	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U18	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Here's the question. Do you think it is right to introduce this ban now from the age of 16? It was mentioned here that this would be like an intermediate phase, that maybe more needs to be changed later. But the Riigikogu has been criticised precisely because some laws are too often amended. Would it not be right to introduce this ban from the age of 18?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U19	I am not here today as just a member of the Riigikogu, but I must express the position of the Commission. The Commission's view is that until the outcome of the Lithuanian trial is clear, we will not take the following decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U20	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party of March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U21	Good President! Colleagues! As a representative of a political group, a chemist, a psychologist, a schoolteacher, I would say that every person is born with his energy bucket. He is born and given with his power, which must last for 84 years, having 120 years, having 66 years, having 36. And there's no deep point in slurping that bucket. As a schoolteacher, I know that since the third, fourth or eighth grade, students who have money have either Red Bull or some sort of power on a mandatory menu, some strong power is always in their pockets. When a person feels that he's got a bit of a flat tire, that he's not bothering anymore, he's gonna slap it in, and it's okay. There are all kinds of signs of schizophrenic behavior, twitching, insubordination, man cannot concentrate, etc. In the end, the worst part is that there is addiction, addiction. As a person, as a teacher, as a parent, I can't imagine how a parent can write an energy drink into a child's menu. That's a pretty thoughtless thing to do. What age do you want to ban energy drinks? They don't have to be banned. It's a matter of social attitude. An energy drink is indispensable for grown people, or those who are already putting on alcohol. The alko takes less, the energy drink and alcohol mix lasts longer and so it gets drunk faster, very good, all the way cool, savings of what kind. It's out of the question for little kids. In the case of alcohol, the limit is 21 years of age, so the energy drink should have a restriction in the same way about that area. This is our attitude, we shape the attitude that children do not consume energy drinks, and we must, just like the limit on alcohol advertising, put small combs around energy drinks. Red Bull gives wings. Yeah, he's giving Formula One gas, and he's giving cars. Think, dear people! We don't have any formulas, and we don't have a formula track. We have form pilots, but they should be sponsored in a different way. So no energy drinks! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U22	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 102, and we are going to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, since the draft requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted, we will carry out a verification of the presence. 50 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present; no 51 members are present. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision by the Estonian Centre Party Group to propose... '. Is there a problem? No, the presence of 51 members of the Riigikogu is not required. A vote may also be taken without the registration of 51 members of the Riigikogu. I will put to the vote the draft of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party 120. Please take a stand and vote. 30 parliamentarians voted in favour of the draft, 6 against, no abstentions. The draft was not supported and the decision was not taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U23	We will proceed to the third item on the agenda: Second reading of the Bill 125 on Amendment to the Packaging Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Rein Ratas, vice-chairman of the Committee on the Environment, please be the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U24	Honourable manager! Honourable Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Packaging Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 9 November including. The aim of the draft is to reduce the administrative burden and costs for small and medium-sized packaging companies which place less than five tonnes of packaging on the market per year. To this end, those undertakings shall be exempt from the obligation to audit the information to be provided to the packaging register and from bearing the costs associated with it. The first reading of the draft law took place on 18 November. a and the deadline for tabling amendments was set in s. November 20th at 12:00. No amendments to the draft were tabled. During the period between the first and second reading of the draft proposal, the draft has been dealt with once at the Environment Committee meeting on 23 November. At the meeting of 23 November, the Committee on the Environment decided unanimously to put the draft on the Riigikogu's agenda for second reading on 8 December and to propose that the honourable Riigikogu stop the second reading and, if the second reading of the draft is completed, refer the draft to a third reading. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U25	Thank you. You have questions too. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U26	Good manager! Good waitress! Today we are talking about the tara, and the law also deals with the foundations of the euro. We all understand that if there are cardboard and packaging that can be returned and re-produced from them, then the foundations of the euro are very clearly a commodity, it is bought and sold. With this law, the situation arises that when I buy goods from a foreign country, at the moment I buy it, it is a euro base tara, and if I sell it in Estonia, it is a commodity. The first inventor has to pay all taxes on it and everyone who operates it in Estonia is free. Did you discuss the issue of how the Eurobase, which is simply a commodity, has also come into the packaging law?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U27	Thank you for this very substantive question. Unfortunately, the Committee on the Environment did not discuss this issue, however, that the euro base was, on the one hand, a packaging or a tare and, on the other hand, a commodity. It wasn't really discussed, not even mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U28	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U29	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, To clarify whether it was said at the meeting of the Commission that the types of packaging could in any way be differentiated in the context of a single law according to whether it is a comprehensive package or whether it is a small package in particular. Did you talk about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U30	Thank you for your question. No, we were talking about the package at all. The amendment applies to any type of packaging that falls under the limit of a five-tonne annual volume. Any packaging or type thereof, if the annual volume of packaging treatment is less than five tonnes, need not be subject to an audit. So the individual species were not affected because almost all species fit under the term 'pack' and its limit value, in five tonnes. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U31	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U32	I ask you once again: what were you discussing in that committee? When an entrepreneur brings in the goods, he has to do something with the packaging or tare, so he takes them to the collection points. I understand perfectly well that I'm taking the cardboard there and taking the plastic containers there. But should I really also be able to re-use the euro base, take it somewhere and cause environmental damage, that somewhere else is sawing the forest and making new euro pallets? Perhaps, in the debate on this important draft law, the Commission should make it very clear what the costs are and what environmentally friendly behaviour is.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U33	Your proposal is absolutely right and welcome, because the European Union's foundations could be treated as a return package. If I am not mistaken, there are also some operators who will take them back and they will essentially enter into circulation as return packages. Of course, depending on what material they are made of, because the foundations of the euro are also different, but basically, to a large extent they are made of wood. Then they go for heating on the right hand side, but at best you could really go back into circulation as a return pack. So it's a matter worth discussing. However, as part of the amendment to the Packaging Act, it did not really rise to the agenda, even before the first reading in plenary, when the issue was quite broad-based. This is probably the subject that needs to be dealt with, that is correct. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U34	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish to negotiate. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 125. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U35	Let's move on to the agenda. The fourth item is the second reading of the draft Act 65 on the amendment of the Accounting Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. The rapporteur is Maris Lauri, member of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U36	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Accounting Act and related amendments to other laws was initiated by the Government of the Republic. a on July 16th. The first reading of the bill in Riigikogu's plenary session was on 11 November and the first reading was closed. The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Accounting Act and related amendments to other laws at its meeting on 26 November, where amendments were examined and procedural decisions were taken. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees by the deadline for submitting amendments, by 12 o'clock on 19 November. The representative of the initiator of the draft proposal submitted to the Commission 12 amendments and two proposals for consideration by the Preparatory Working Group. One of the group's proposals, namely No 2, was supported by the Commission and therefore the representative of the initiator withdrew the alternative proposal he had tabled. The second proposal put forward by the working group provided for a draft amendment to point 44 of § 1. Its purpose was to provide that the annual activity report of the State also includes an overview of the organisation of the internal audit of the State's accounting officer, which is broader in terms of content, compared to what was proposed in the draft. According to the proposed wording, the annual report of the State would have included information on the organisation of the internal audit of all the State's accounting officers, not only in ministries. The representative of the initiator of the draft act did not support the proposal as it would have created an internal audit obligation for institutions where it has not been carried out so far and where it would not be appropriate to introduce it due to the small size of the institution. The proposal was also rejected by the Commission and removed from the list of amendments. The representative of the initiator of the draft act and the commission supported the proposals set out in the list of other amendments. Most of the amendments made the draft text more traceable and more understandable to the target groups of regulation. These were Amendments 1, 3 to 8 and 10. The substantive amendments were as follows: Amendment 2 slightly amended the definition of micro-enterprises. As a result, the micro-company is a private limited company and, in its earlier wording, it was a company. According to the original wording, the micro enterprise was not subject to VAT; it has now been replaced by the condition that the return on sales is EUR 50000. This amendment initially extended the very narrow circle of micro-enterprises and aligned the definition with the definition of small, medium and large enterprises. Amendment 9 is proposed by the Accounting Panel and aims to specify in which cases the consolidating entity does not need to be reported on a row-by-row basis in the group report. Some discussion was raised as to whether the costs of obtaining the necessary information about the entity to be consolidated should use the words 'extremely unreasonable' or whether the word 'unreasonable' is sufficient. Since this situation should be extremely rare, it was decided to stick to the proposal of the initiator of the draft and to use the term 'extremely unreasonable'. Amendments 11 and 12 relate to the enforcement of the draft. The initiator had planned that the draft would enter into force on 30 November, but in view of all the necessary steps, it was decided to postpone the entry into force until 1 January 2016. Some other entry into force dates are also amended to give the Accounting Board and the Registries and Information Systems Centre time to make the necessary changes. The lead committee took the following procedural decisions: The draft law amending the Accounting Act and related amendments to other laws was decided to be sent to the Riigikogu for a second reading. a by 8 December, with a proposal to terminate the second reading and, when the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading on 10 December and to put the draft to a final vote. The draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U37	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. There are 12 amendments to the draft and we will now examine them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the lead committee has taken full account of it. The third amendment is tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fourth amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The sixth amendment is tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The eighth amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account. The 10th amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 12th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined all the amendments tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 65. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U38	We will proceed to the fifth item on the agenda: First reading of the draft law amending the Law on Tobacco initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U39	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I will introduce you to the draft law amending the Tobacco Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. First of all, a little bit of uniform. In fact, Estonia has an obligation to transpose the European Union Tobacco Directive. Let's take it over in two parts. As the implementation of the directive is urgent, with the first draft we are dealing with today, we will deal with the fastest things regarding the packaging of tobacco products. In the coming months, we will also come to the Riigikogu with the second part of the package to make the remaining changes, driven by the directive, but also by the principles agreed in the Green Paper on Estonian tobacco policy. I now come specifically to this draft. In Estonia, the damage caused by tobacco use has been deliberately combated for more than 15 years. Substantial efforts have been made to reduce smoking while applying a number of laws to protect public health. The first important step was taken in 1997, when advertising of tobacco products was prohibited by the Advertising Act. In 2000, the first tobacco law was adopted, which introduced, inter alia, a requirement to put a health warning on tobacco packaging and a ban on selling tobacco products to minors and restricting smoking in public spaces. In 2005, the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control entered into force. On this basis, a new tobacco law was adopted in Estonia in the same year, which introduced labelling requirements for tobacco products, a ban on sponsorship and promotion and a ban on smoking indoors in public use. The price of tobacco products has also been gradually increased. At this point, I express my thanks to all the Riigikogu's formations who have adopted these important changes. As a result of these changes, we can say that the prevalence of smoking in Estonia is decreasing. While we even noticed a temporary increase in the 1990s, by 2010, the prevalence of smoking had been estimated to have decreased by almost a tenth compared to the 1990s. Smoking has decreased particularly rapidly in the last four years, when the share of smokers has fallen by another fifth. However, 22% of Estonian adults are still smokers on a daily basis, and as there are twice as many men in Estonia as there are women, the prevalence of smoking in particular among men is still remarkably high. A positive trend is that there are clearly fewer smokers among young people. This is also what we have set our long-term goal. Over the last four years, the proportion of school pupils has increased, who have declared themselves to be non-smokers. Their share has increased by 6% and reached 92%, which is certainly extremely positive. Smoking is, of course, a very high health risk; it does not need to be repeated to anyone here, and the economic damage to the country is also great. In addition to early mortality, smokers are more likely to develop malignancies and cardiovascular diseases. In Estonia, 8.3% of years of age lost due to illness and early mortality are caused by tobacco smoking, estimated at nearly 4,000 deaths per year. According to a study carried out in 2004, the total loss of health of the Estonian population related to smoking was 28,000 years old this year. The direct economic damage to the State resulting from smoking is at least EUR 65 million per year on the basis of one analysis. It is also a worrying fact that Estonia stands out among other countries of the European Union among school pupils with a high prevalence of smoking. We are starting to have young people try smoking at a much younger age, at an average age of 12, compared to other countries. In young people, smoking also leads to worsening lung function, reduced physical performance and increased asthma and cough risks, in addition to the diseases and diagnoses mentioned above. On the basis of the losses associated with tobacco consumption and the serious threat to human health, the European Commission, together with the Member States during the Irish Presidency, has introduced a directive on the basis of which we will also make the corresponding changes. The following is a brief introduction to you. They can be divided into three parts: firstly, changes concerning the requirements and labelling of tobacco packages; secondly, changes concerning the composition of tobacco products, i.e. the content of additives in them; thirdly, the amendment resulting from the Green Paper on tobacco policy to limit the number of smoking places in buildings. I'll start with the ingredients of tobacco products. The requirements are set out in subsections 1 and 2 of the draft. These requirements will be introduced to reduce the health risks arising from additives used in tobacco products. Tobacco itself contains a considerable amount of poisons, but unfortunately, tobacco producers also use all kinds of additives that are harmful to health and are surprisingly unregulated so far. This directive and the proposed proposal provide for an obligation to assess and register additives used in tobacco products in accordance with the REACH Regulation. This means that the health impact of the chemical composition of the products can be much better assessed. The addition of vitamins and other additives, caffeine or taurine and other stimulants to tobacco products shall be prohibited. Impurities giving colour to released substances shall also be prohibited. To put it plainly, tobacco smoke must not be painted beautiful and white, but it must look the way it is. Impurities facilitating inhalation or nicotine uptake shall be prohibited. Here, the best example is undoubtedly menthol, which facilitates nicotine inhalation and, as such, has made smoking more popular among women and young people, for example. Finally, additives which are carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic for reproduction in unburnt form shall be prohibited. It also provides that tobacco filters, paper, packaging or capsules must not contain flavouring substances, tobacco or nicotine. Packaging and labelling. As a major innovation, the draft adds to the Tobacco Act the obligation to introduce a combined health warning, which will in future have uniform health warnings requirements throughout the European Union. According to this, there is a text warning on the packaging of cigarettes, smoking tobacco, including water pipe tobacco, together with an appropriate picture warning, i.e. a rather grotesque colour photograph. We are dealing with the transposition of the so-called'mandatory' part of the directive. Some countries have also gone on their own a more stringent path. For example, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Hungary and France have announced their intention to introduce standardised packaging, which does not even include the design elements of the manufacturer's brand, but essentially the whole package is one major health threat warning. If you look at this minimum program that we have in the draft, it's made up of three elements. First, four text warnings. Secondly, a picture warning with yearly alternating photos of what smoking can lead to for smokers. Thirdly, counselling information for people who want to quit smoking. No information on nicotine, tar or carbon monoxide content of the tobacco product may be included on the packaging. The packaging shall not contain any reference to taste, odour, any flavouring or other additives. Nor must the cigarette package imply economic benefits, be printed or include any coupons offering discounts, free distributions, 'two for one' or similar benefits. The minimum dimensions of the general health warnings on the packaging have also been specified. In general, according to this draft, most tobacco product packagings are separated from health warnings, including designated labelling locations and text size. The issue of the labelling of packages of smoke is under the direct control of the European Commission, which means that the design requirements are the same in all European countries. Health warnings must cover 65% of the total surface area of the smoke packaging. Requirements for plant-based smoking products shall also be included. Above all, we are talking here about bong tobacco, which is less demanding. They have been lighter in the past, and they remain lighter today, but according to the bill, the health warning must cover 30% of the packaging's surface with the text 'Smoking this product will harm your health'. The draft bans smoking areas located in buildings as of 1 June 2017. Such changes are necessary to ensure a smoke-free environment, to protect human health and to implement the measures of the Green Paper on tobacco policy. After all, the change is clear to everyone, but for the sake of clarification, we are talking not about smoking rooms but about smoking corners that are not separated by walls. There is a requirement that there should be an underpressure so that the smoke does not spread to other spaces, but in practice it has not worked so far. Therefore, the draft provides for the prohibition of open smoking areas from 2017. There are about 40 other areas known to exist in Estonia. If my memory isn't fooled, a lot of them are located in cultural institutions. I think I've told you the most important thing. I'd be happy to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U40	Thank you. Indeed, you also have questions. Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U41	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I am convinced that any additional warnings that help to maintain people's health and shape young people's right and good habits are certainly essential. But that's what I'm asking. You're a young person, too. How do you personally feel if you see a warning on a pack of cigarettes changes your habits, your behaviour with regard to smoking?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U42	Surely one of the goals of these changes is to keep young people out of smoking so that young people do not start smoking. Studies from different countries have clearly shown that pictorial warnings have a reducing effect on smoking. I am now saying, from memory, that when the picture warnings were legalised in Britain, the impact on tobacco consumption was 0.5 to 0.6% in the middle, which is actually significant in terms of the number of people behind this 0.6%. For young people, the impact of this type of warning is generally greater. As I said at the beginning, the prevalence of smoking among adults has decreased by about one tenth in the 1990s and 2000s, by two percentage points in the general figures, and by another fifth in the last four years. Smoking has been even faster among young people, and smoking is no longer popular for young people today. Since the majority of everyday smokers have started smoking as a minor, our goal is to prevent this addiction from occurring at that age.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U43	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U44	Good manager! Good waitress! What is certain is that it is a good law, and all these warning signs and precautionary statements should be on the packaging. It also lists the size of the letters of the warning text. As a result of the adoption of this law, all packages of cigarettes must be much larger than they are now. On the one hand, we try to eliminate one vice, but on the other hand, maybe we do bad things for the environment, we spend the forest to make the packages bigger. Is it a good idea to make packages bigger so that the whole text can fit in?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U45	Thank you. It is true that with such fine small packages of cigarettes, which are marketed primarily to women, which are nice to put in a purse, it becomes difficult. These packages need to get bigger, because health warnings, the dimensions of which are very clearly defined in the directive, cannot easily fit on top of them. Whether the result is that they make bigger packages and keep half the package empty, I am not quite sure of that, but that cannot, of course, be completely ruled out. If we look at German tobacco packages, for example, there has clearly been such a tendency, though for fiscal reasons, that there are 14, 16 or 22 cigarettes in the pack depending on the year. So, theoretically, it's possible, and it's probably going to involve some kind of environmental damage. But if you put on the scale of these bigger cigarette packs and human health damage, I think the health arguments are stronger. In general, there are provisions and the draft introduces additional minimum quantities of tobacco products in the packaging. The general direction, which has been scientifically proven, is that there should be a lot of cigarettes in the package. We don't have a lot of these things, but in several countries, for example, 10-cigarette packages are sold. It has been proven and established that it will make smoking more accessible, as the pack will be cheaper. So the aim of introducing a minimum quantity is to reduce the availability of tobacco products, thereby essentially increasing the price of the package. This is particularly true for young people who may not always have the money to buy a large pack of cigarettes, especially if we continue to increase excise duties on tobacco. Smaller packages of all kinds make the price of pieces cheaper and more accessible to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U46	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U47	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! In principle, it can be accepted that bringing forth vices should help to reduce them. My question, however, is about impact assessments. When you bring in a parallel with alcohol, alcohol and tobacco advertising is limited in Estonia. However, we know the numbers of alcohol consumption compared to those of other countries. In your report, you mentioned the impact analyses of other countries and claimed that the measures had been effective. Has there been, or is there a plan to carry out, realistic impact analyses on the prohibitions that are intended to be applied to both tobacco and alcohol?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U48	Thank you. Unlike alcohol advertising, which is very widely allowed in Estonia and which we can all enjoy both when we open Delfi and when we open our television at night, tobacco advertising in Estonia has been completely prohibited for almost 20 years in all forms. Tobacco is not advertised. From a health point of view, there is no reason to treat alcohol differently than tobacco. When we talk about impact analyses, there are several buts here. I was talking about an analysis of the changes that have been made in other countries. We have not yet implemented a specific change, i.e. a pictorial warning. In general, however, the World Health Organisation has made recommendations to countries in both alcohol policy and tobacco policy, based precisely on the extensive scientific knowledge that exists in this area in other countries, and has also assessed the effectiveness of the restrictions in achieving the objectives. In principle, as in the case of alcohol, price is a very important factor. Undoubtedly, one of the most important reasons why smoking has decreased in Estonia is a very significant increase in tobacco prices. Another factor is certainly advertising, which is particularly relevant to young people and to a more distant perspective. The third factor is sales opportunities and the availability of tobacco products. The next draft, which I did not talk about today, but which I mentioned, by pointing out that this package also has a second part, is one of the measures agreed in the Green Paper on tobacco policy. For this to happen, taking tobacco products under the counter is, I don't remember exactly what year it was, by memory, from 2019 to prevent tobacco products from being visible to the buyer when they go to the store. As in the case of alcohol, measures usually act as a bundle. The interaction between various measures, as well as, of course, awareness-raising, prevention and treatment, will result in a change in the social standard. So what has actually happened in Estonia is that smoking is no longer popular. Especially among young people, we can see that smoking is no longer cool, as it once was. This also clearly leads to a reduction in smoking prevalence. One important change was definitely not exactly remembered, i.e. in 2005 when smoking indoors was banned in Estonia. This is, in my opinion, one of the best examples of how before smoking was a social norm, smokers went to the restaurant, took out their packages, regardless of whether they were surrounded by non-smokers or children. I remember when there was a discussion about this ban, some of them said something like that, if a non-smokers don't like the smell of smoke, don't come to the restaurant. Non-smokers should then have changed their behaviour depending on their preference. This has certainly changed now in Estonia, and I think that the combined effect of the measures has been the result. It is very difficult to carry out an impact analysis on each measure, how many percentage points it has now reduced smoking. It is difficult to do this even in Britain, where there are very many consumers, but it is particularly difficult to do so in Estonia. It is also difficult to do precisely because the measures work in a complex way, it is very difficult to take out a single piece. The question is what is the social rule that national regulations are guiding one way or the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U49	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U50	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The Estonian Association of Municipalities has argued in this way when coordinating the draft: 'The explanatory memorandum of the draft law does not analyse the expected costs of the local government involved in the implementation of the Act and does not indicate the source of the costs involved in introducing a new requirement for the provision of care services. ' However, it has been argued that proper cleaning of smoking rooms could cost EUR 3000 to EUR 25000. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U51	I think that local authorities, including their institutions, are very interested in having their people healthier, especially those who do not smoke themselves. I think that protecting the health of these people could be a priority for local authorities. I'm sure they can do well to put these areas behind the walls, and the goal is noble. Of course, if the area is to be converted into a room, it will require additional investments. To this end, there is also a transitional period until 2017 in order to make these investments. I don't think that's too much money for anyone. And maybe in this context, it's worth thinking that maybe there's no room for smoking in every institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U52	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U53	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You referred in your speech to the fact that smoking causes early death. Maybe you can explain what the signs of a fixed-term death or the criteria when this fixed-term death is approaching.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U54	I said "avoidable death."
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U55	Wait a minute, I'm not done with the question. Secondly, I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that, as I recall, it was only after eight o'clock that I was allowed to smoke in restaurants during the Soviet era, and there were no children in restaurants at eight o'clock. Please answer the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U56	Thank you. As far as I'm concerned, I said "avoidable deaths," but we can check the verbatim. Maybe I was wrong, but then I'll fix myself. I meant avoidable deaths because some deaths are not avoidable. Deaths caused by tobacco are avoidable. A person can act one way or the other, thereby reducing his or her risk of death. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U57	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The European Union Tobacco Products Directive states that tobacco products with a taste or odour with a market share of more than 3% can also be used for a transitional period up to 2020. Estonians are known to have faith in menthol cigarettes and have a market share of around 20%. Estonia does not use the possibility of a transitional period. As we know, menthol cigarettes do not have a legal substitute product, which probably leads to the purchase of illegal cigarettes or menthol cigarettes from Finland and Latvia, where a transitional period is used. You don't change people's habits on the day. Has a transitional period been considered?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U59	Yeah, we know that's the problem. Indeed, one of the exceptions in this directive is given, and precisely for menthol cigarettes. It's hidden behind that percentage, but basically we're talking about a transitional period for menthol cigarettes. The extent to which this is justified is highly debatable. But the risk of the secret market, especially in Estonia, is definitely up. The government, or at least the Ministry of Social Affairs, has planned to apply the transitional period to the second part of the package of these drafts. In this particular draft, we have moved forward at a faster pace, precisely with the changes that require very rapid action by tobacco distributors and manufacturers, because the new packaging requirements must enter into force on 20 May and, of course, companies must have the ultimate certainty of what form and images come in. So in the next draft, we are going to make such a proposal, and then the Riigikogu will be able to discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U60	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U61	Thank you. Like many other Member States of the European Union, Estonia has granted a transitional period to tobacco producers in order to bring its production into line with this new law. How long is this transition period, and do you consider it sufficient? This bill contains different entry into force triggers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U62	The main amendments concerning the packaging shall enter into force on 20 May 2016. This is the deadline for transposition of the directive, and that is what is very urgent. It is not the fault of any Member State that it is very urgent, because the Irish Presidency was able to adopt this directive at quite the last moment, and now the European Commission has taken some time to prepare and announce regulations on specific packaging requirements, health warnings, pictures, etc. We actually came up with this draft before these regulations were approved. I don't even have the final information on whether these have been confirmed for today. Either way, we've gotten this draft and we know what these packages are coming from. We have also been in contact with tobacco producers, so in principle they can begin to comply with the new requirements. By adopting the law, it is urgent that these restrictions enter into force on 20 May 2016. The 2017 amendments concern smoking areas and have been extended for a full year. Here was the question of how local authorities can make smoking rooms in nursing homes if they do not yet exist. I think most people do. The deadline for these amendments is 1 June 2017. There was also talk of menthol cigarettes, which will be dealt with in the context of the next draft. There is also a transitional period for these. There's another paragraph I tried to understand this morning, but frankly, I'm not sure I finished. This is § 1 (12) of the draft, which is due to enter into force by 2019: 'The combined health warning shall be placed on the most visible surface of the sales package of cigarettes and smoking tobacco and the immediate packaging of the group... ' I'm not quite sure what that means. So I admit my incompetence, but I've already asked for it to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U63	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U64	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. In my opinion, the most effective measure in the fight against tobacco is to set a personal example. I can't imagine anyone in my home or in my car having a smoke, that's out of the question. And in my family, neither children nor anyone else smokes. But here's what I'm asking you: when will hidden advertising be stopped, for example, in a store above the cashiers? Regardless of how long the store is open, this commercial will be up there all the time, i.e. the smoke packs will be visible in public. It is easy to follow the example.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U65	That's the question I answered before. The second draft package amending the Tobacco Act, which will reach the Riigikogu in the coming months, also intends to lay down the regulation of hiding cigarette packages under the so-called counter. This is a measure agreed in the Green Paper on tobacco policy. I am indebted to the answer from which date this regulation should enter into force. There's some sort of transition period, so the sellers can somehow reshape their cigarette packets. This measure is planned and the bill will reach the Riigikogu in the coming months.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U66	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U67	Thank you, good deputy speaker. Good minister! The second and third sentences of the first paragraph of the explanatory memorandum state: 'The provisions on smoke-free environments are also amended. The changes include the abolition of smoking areas in the premises. ' Maybe you can explain exactly what it is. What areas are planned to be lost, and where do these smoking areas go? I remember that when this thing was implemented, the aim was not to disturb non-smoking people, to create separate smoking areas in indoors, restaurants, bars and other establishments. The idea was that everyone would be happy, both smokers and non-smokers. What is the purpose of this change now, and who should win it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U68	Thank you. In one of my earlier responses, I was talking about what we're talking about here. It's not smoking rooms we're talking about. It's smoking areas we're talking about. The difference between smoking space and smoking area is, figuratively speaking, that one has a door and the other does not. This draft bans smoking areas, i.e. space-based smoke corners, which are not separated by walls and door from other smoke-free areas. The current requirement is that there must be a downward pressure, but practice shows that it does not work in substance, i.e. tobacco smoke spreads to other premises. In fact, it also spreads from enclosed smoking rooms, but especially from smoking areas. According to our information, there are about 40 smoking areas left in Estonia, so there are quite few. In the explanatory memorandum, this figure is also given somewhere. The aim of this amendment is to eliminate smoking areas, which means that, if desired, you can build walls around the walls and in front of the door and make a smoking space in the area, or consider whether or not a smoking space is needed in the building. But basically, the goal continues to be the same, i.e. to protect non-smokers. Open smoking areas do not protect them enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U69	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U70	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. Your party enthusiastically supported the lowering of the election age to the 16th year of life by saying that then we would give power to the citizens. Your party talks a lot about civil society. I have this general philosophy question about this bill. When does this limit come up, or where do you think this reasonable limit is? There's a big brother sitting on the back of the citizens who tells them what they can do and what they can't do. Do you still think that all citizens are idiots, that they do not know how to maintain their health or how to behave? I think it is a law that goes very deeply on citizens' own freedom of decision and action.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U71	Thank you. You've got this bill completely wrong. People can continue to shop and buy tobacco products, no one restricts their rights, except minors who limit health-risk behaviour not only in this area but also in alcohol consumption. I am, of course, pleased that your party has begun to pursue a liberal view of the world, but according to your logic, if every person decides himself, all drugs could also make them legal, which this country will then ban them. I cannot agree with this interpretation in any way, I think it is the duty of the state to protect the health of its people. Of course, this is more acute for minors, but also for everyone else, the state must take steps to reduce smoking. Health warnings are, in my view, a completely appropriate measure. If other measures can be implemented, such as increasing excise duty, as has now been decided, this must certainly be done in order to reduce tobacco consumption. But those who really want to keep smoking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U72	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U73	Mr. Minister! As a representative of a slightly older generation, I have noticed one thing. Even the most moderate and polite restrictions will sooner or later fall victim to some madman or fanatic who even makes a moderate restriction something crazy. The final example of smoking is the states of Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Maine, which banned films showing James Bond, Humphrey Bogart, Ingmar Bergman, Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher smoking. They were just censored out. James Bond's Golden Hand film, which lasts two hours and five minutes, left an hour and forty-five minutes because Bond was smoking all the time. Is anything like that threatening us?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U74	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U75	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U76	Thank you to the manager. Good minister! The draft explanatory memorandum contains a reference to the Health Board study on compliance with the Tobacco Act in cultural and sporting institutions. It's a pretty old, five-year-old study. It turns out that 23% of cultural and sporting institutions do not comply with the tobacco law. In the meantime, has there been any information on whether compliance with the law has improved, or are we still relying on this five-year-old study?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U77	Thank you. I hope it's gotten better. The National Institute for Health Development deals with smoking issues every year, studies the school youth and has also carried out more specific studies in different areas, such as on the prevalence of smoking among campus guards, etc. I don't have any more recent research into compliance with the tobacco law in buildings. If any such study had been carried out, it would probably have been included in this explanatory memorandum. But I have not noticed that there is a great deal of smoking in places that are banned in Estonian buildings.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U78	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U79	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good minister! You said the purpose of the bill was noble. What is noble about it, or what is the point, at all times, that the cigarette sales package must be cross-bodied, that the cigarette sales package must be cross-bodied, cylindrical or pocket-shaped? I'm sorry, it's as crazy as fixing a banana or cucumber curve. What's the next thing we're gonna standardize like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U80	Thank you. You have misunderstood this purpose. Bananas are certainly not mentioned here, and this analogy is not relevant. The problem here is that tobacco producers or the tobacco sector are quite capable associations, given that there is a very high commercial interest involved. They are also a very capable company in relation to the marketing of tobacco products to different target groups and, in particular, the search for new consumers, whether women in Estonia, for example, do not want to smoke very much by women or young people. There are all sorts of nice and clever tricks to make tobacco products more attractive. One such way is that tobacco packaging is being tried to make it very attractive and nice. They've been made of silver, metal, put on them all kinds of sparkly and other fancy things to make buying cigarettes emotionally more enjoyable. There has not been much marketing of this type in Estonia, so it is difficult to imagine how far it can go. In the last meeting of the Social Committee, where this issue was discussed, examples were also given from other countries, all of which have been implemented there. Let's just say that these specific restrictions are not a priority for Estonia, because we have not had much such aggressive marketing, but in many other countries they have. As it is a harmonisation of European rules, in those countries where there has been a very aggressive marketing, where very nice packages have been used, which have made tobacco products attractive and beautiful, they are now made back boring and ugly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U81	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! I have a very simple question for you: do you smoke?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U83	I've had quite a few years on this subject, since I was a minor, this kind of personal contact, yes. As a result, for all minors I know, I have recommended that you do not start, after that it is very difficult and difficult to get rid of. You get one, you don't get another. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U84	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U85	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I don't have time to explain to you, of course, in a minute, why the Conservatives are unwavering defenders of personal freedoms, and that doesn't make them liberals yet. Suffice it to say that conservatives and classic liberals are quite similar today, but it's not the same thing as real liberals today. Unlike the honourable minister or my benchmate, I have never been a smoker. I don't like smoking, I think it's an ugly habit. But I am in favour of people's right to choose how they organise their lives. You said here earlier that you could allow drugs to be used. I would like to say that, if you take into account all these "noble goals" with cross-thought-shaped packages of smoke, wouldn't it make more sense to simply ban smoking rather than to make endless regulations on how much can, how can and what color will be?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U86	Thank you. I didn't understand whether you were in favour of human freedom or whether you wanted to ban it. Try to take a stand on this issue. Of course, I would be very pleased if there was no smoking at all in Estonia and worldwide. But given that this is a very strong addictive activity, a very strong addictive substance in the case of nicotine, I don't think it's going so easily. However, as a result of targeted, long-term work, smoking is declining. I believe that the downward trend will continue if we take steps to this end as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U87	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U88	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I could certainly also tell you at length about the philosophy of how the Conservatives want to defend personal freedoms rather than regulate like the left. But that's what it is. I have two brief questions. Estonia is certainly a leading and good member of the European Union, who quickly adopts the law of the European Union. However, it was only two days ago in a Central European country that I had such experience that there were neither smoking rooms nor even smoking areas, but all the smokes where you wanted anything, which, of course, I don't think is right. I think this is too extreme an approach already. However, I am interested in what is the current situation with the transposition of the new European Union law in the other Member States of the European Union. While we have already regulated smoking to a very large extent and called for these areas and spaces, there are at the same time a large number of countries in the European Union where the situation is the same as we have in the 1990s. How far are other countries? Question two. You said you didn't like sparkly things. You really don't like sparkly stuff on cigarette packs?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U89	Thank you. The directives will be transposed by the Member States according to the agreed timetable. The rules are that if they are not transposed by the deadline, a specific procedure will begin on this matter. I believe that Estonia, as well as other countries, will be able to implement this directive in time. Of course, it is true that both alcohol and tobacco policy measures have been implemented at very different speeds in different countries. There are countries that have been significantly better, in a sense pioneering in this field, and there are countries that have done little. But it has depended on the situation in these countries. However, now that the text of the new directive has been agreed at European Union level, all countries must take these steps together.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U90	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U91	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue to some extent with the question of Jaak Madison. The question is this: if the European Union's tobacco policy were different and the use of tobacco was aggressively promoted in the interests of large tobacco groups and corporations, would the Government of the Republic of Estonia follow this policy with the same enthusiasm that it is currently pursuing anti-tobacco policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U92	The Estonian Government would continue to implement essentially the same measures, regardless of what the European Union is doing. These additional measures have been agreed in the Green Paper on Estonian Tobacco Policy, which has been endorsed by the government. I suggest you get to know it. However, those areas where Member States do not have sufficient competence to regulate matters alone are of concern, as they concern the functioning of the single market. That is why it was necessary to have this Europe-wide agreement that the restrictions applied in different countries are exactly the same in all countries, i.e. tightening tobacco policy, the different national regulations do not always work together in a "co-ordinated manner," and we also have the principles of the functioning of the single market, which need clear regulation at European Union level. We will certainly continue to implement measures that have not yet been agreed at European Union level, which are not the result of the directive, but which we believe are important and sensible. These relate, for example, to smoking areas and also to hiding tobacco products under the counter, which will be discussed in the next draft format. But coordination across the European Union in both tobacco and alcohol policy will certainly facilitate the enforcement of these regulations.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U93	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U94	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! How do you imagine Sherlock Holmes without a pipe? In Estonia, the "Last Cop" series is very popular and I love it and I keep looking at it. How do you imagine a detective out there without a cigarette, not mentioning names? Isn't this 'Last Cop' a little protest against your tobacco laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U95	Thank you. Now, I wish I was Maris Jesse, so I could tell you a story. Unfortunately, I can't do that because I don't look at this show and I don't know the names of these characters either. But the story is briefly that an Estonian producer who had made a series where the main character smokes everywhere unbridledly once went after his child to a kindergarten, about five or three years old, I don't remember exactly. He discovered that children were sitting in a sandbox, playing the characters on the show, and his child had some sort of stick in his hand that he was always walking around with. After that, he decided that the main character of the show would quit smoking. Clearly, these things have an impact especially on young people. I think that our filmmakers could feel such a sense of social responsibility quite clearly, especially when it comes to TV series or films aimed at young people or with a large audience of young people.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U96	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In your speech, you mentioned the second package of restrictions that will come soon. With the current bill, it's pretty much clear, but I'm asking you now about the future. What other plans do you have, and can you introduce a little bit of what this package contains?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U98	Thank you. I'll introduce it when this bill gets here. Otherwise, I don't have the point of coming here next time, but I still want to come and the law obliges me. There are two issues that I have already talked about, one concerning menthol cigarettes and the other about putting cigarettes under the counter. At the moment, this bill has not yet been discussed by the government. So let's make the decisions that the law provides for the government to send the bill here, and then I'll be happy to introduce it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U99	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions for you. Mr Vilja Savisaar-Toomasti, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Board, please report!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U100	Mr. Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this draft at its meeting on 24 November. At this session, Mr Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, gave us a presentation on the same topics that you have heard for a long time today. Aive Telling, Head of the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Kersti Berendsen-Koržets, Legal Adviser, were also present. As I said, these issues have been dealt with at length here today, and they have also been discussed in the Commission. I'm not gonna tell you again. But I can show you the pictures they told you about, the ones that come on the decks. If anyone wants to see me, I've got them all. A few more general things. I worked in the European Parliament when the Commission brought this directive into Parliament's proceedings. I think it was 2011. I can tell you that according to the proposal from the Commission, manufacturers of cigarettes or other tobacco products would be banned from any advertising. A much stricter and more resolute proposal. Until February 2014, when the directive was finally adopted, Parliament also had very heated disputes on this issue, until it would ultimately be the easiest if tobacco products were no longer produced in the European Union, all regulations would be much simpler and the Member States would not need to adopt directives or laws. Perhaps there are some other interesting issues that were discussed in Parliament. This particularly concerned the Nordic countries, particularly Sweden, which was concerned that this directive would ban, for example, licorice pipes sold in the Nordic countries. Some ambassadors were very unhappy that they could no longer buy a liquorice pipe from the airport and so on. Fortunately, this ban was fortunate or unfortunately, I do not have a position in this regard outside the directive, but, as I understand it, in Estonia it is already prohibited by the current law and all other food products, candy, etc. that resemble tobacco products. So Estonia would not have been affected either way. The long argument was whether to ban fine cigarettes. Finally, it was maintained that this ban would not go into the directive and fine cigarettes could still be sold. The third important issue concerned e-cigarettes. Very many ambassadors argued that e-cigarette is a health product and should not be regulated by the Tobacco Directive. The final solution was that it could be registered as a tobacco product and sold only at a pharmacy, but it must be authorised by the Agency. At present, the Directive has remained in place so that the nicotine content must not exceed 2 milligrams per dose and is sold in a filled bottle by 10 milligrams. I was not the person dealing with this directive or the rapporteur myself, but these were the sharpest points that were memorized by the group's discussions. Finally, I will mention the specific procedural proposals made by the Commission. The first proposal was to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 8 December, today, to conclude the first reading and set the deadline for amendments at 10 working days, 22 December at 5.15 p.m. Mr Vilja Savisaar-Toomas, Member of the Commission, was appointed rapporteur. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U101	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U102	Good manager! Good waitress! I stress once again that this is certainly a very good law. But if we hope that the number of smokers in Estonia will be reduced by this law, then the other half will also be reduced by tobacco excise tax, regardless of the fact that excise duty is constantly increasing. Do you think there is any hope that, as the number of smokers should decrease due to the adoption of this law, the health insurance fund will also spend less money on sickness benefits and medical treatment?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U103	Thank you for your question. I don't think anyone has any doubt that there's a connection between them. Smoking is the first risk factor in cardiovascular disease, even with a greater effect than alcohol. Undoubtedly, after we have reduced smoking as a whole, the number of diseases caused by smoking will also decrease, leaving the health insurance fund with more money for prevention and other treatments. Let me just say one more thing. I imagine that consensus on the tobacco directive was certainly easier to achieve in Europe, thinking about how ever alcohol policy should be regulated on a European scale. No matter what area we are discussing alcohol, policies, values and behaviour vary from one Member State to another, in order to reach a consensus such as that of the Tobacco Directive, I do not believe that alcohol policy can be achieved.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U104	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 118. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. December 22, 5.15 p.m. The debate on the fifth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U105	Let's move on to item six. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the Private Schools Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Education and Science. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U106	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This draft repeals the obligation imposed by § 222 of the Private School Act on local government entities to contribute to the operating costs of a private school. The amendment is based on the decision of the Supreme Court of 28 October 2014, according to which the obligation laid down in § 222 of the Private Schools Act is not inherently self-governing, which is why the Supreme Court declared the settlement obligation imposed on LAs by the Private Schools Act to be incompatible with the Constitution. According to the current regulation, the municipality must participate in covering the operating costs of a private school in proportion to the number of students whose population register has their place of residence in the administrative territory of that municipality or city, within the limit set by the Government of the Republic. The draft removes the obligation on the municipality to participate in the operating costs of a private general education school and regulates it as an opportunity to contribute to the costs if the local government unit considers this to be necessary for the benefit of the local community, i.e. it is necessary to ensure access to education or to diversify the possibilities of regional education. A separate approach is provided for private schools for children with special needs. The draft does not concern the ad hoc education allowance granted to private school holders, which is granted to private school holders on an equal basis with municipal schools pursuant to § 222 of the Private Schools Act. It should be noted that this amount has increased from EUR 6.8 million in 2013 to EUR 10.8 million this year and will continue to grow rapidly. The amendment of § 222 of the Private Schools Act has three clear objectives. Firstly, to ensure access to quality education regardless of the economic opportunities of the learner in order to avoid educational stratification. Secondly, to ensure that resources for educational expenditure are used in a meaningful and targeted way. Thirdly, to support the development of a sustainable and sensible school network. The regulation has been established in accordance with § 37 (2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The Constitution obliges the state and local government to ensure a situation in which each child can fulfil his or her school obligation and obtain education free of charge. The content of the education is determined by the state, whose cost is basically covered by the educational allowance accompanying the student, but the optimal school network must be ensured by the local government, also managing the corresponding operating costs. Other educational institutions, including private schools, may also be opened and maintained under the law, but the State's participation in the running costs of these schools is not a constitutional obligation. This has been confirmed by the Chancellor of Justice, the Auditor General and also the Supreme Court. The state must accept the freedom of a private school teacher to set up a private school, but it is not obliged to subsidise private schools. The draft states that if the municipality decides that it is necessary to cover the operating costs of a private school in order to ensure access to education and diversity, it will also assume a corresponding financial commitment by concluding a contract with a private school to confirm it. The draft does not limit the creation or activity of private schools, but gives cities and municipalities the opportunity to take into account private schools alongside municipal schools. The draft will ensure the availability of high-quality education, the efficient and targeted use of budget resources and will support the organisation of the school network, which is a prerequisite for better funding the content of education, including the increase of teachers' salaries. The current regulation has been declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court, and it has also been strongly criticised by the Chancellor of Justice and the Auditor General. There have been many public speeches on the draft, which point to the possibility of raising new questions about the constitutional response. I would ask the Riigikogu to take with great attention and seriousness the warnings made by the Chancellor of Justice in writing as well as at the meeting of the Government. Last time I checked, he put it in my heart last night. Firstly, the establishment of private schools that meet quality indicators cannot be banned or existing and new private schools treated differently. Similarly, according to the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, the state is not obliged to fund such choices, but it is not obliged to prevent these choices from being made. Secondly, the municipality cannot still be obliged to finance private schools. It is therefore not constitutional to eliminate the violation of the Constitution by obtaining a training permit and an opinion from the municipality, although we have considered asking for an opinion and considered it to be logical to write it into the law if you wish. Thirdly, the Chancellor of Justice stressed that the current situation must be resolved very quickly, as it will make it difficult for local authorities to provide high-quality and free education and will not leave an alternative to high-quality free education for responsible parents in the near future. The state must not make the situation of municipal schools more difficult by providing private schools with double funding compared to municipal schools, nor must it grant public guarantees to a private initiative. When proposing amendments, it must be taken into account that the obligation to cover operating costs is not the responsibility of the municipality in whose administrative territory the private school is located, but of the municipality in which the child resides. It is not practically possible to seek the consent of all municipalities where children can go to private school during the course of the training permit process. Equal treatment of schools spoken a lot can only mean the same discretion of municipalities in covering operating costs and the same bounty from the state. However, it is not the equal treatment of the institutions that should be discussed above all, but the equal opportunity for all to receive high-quality and free education. Unfortunately, private schools do not create equal opportunities, but their value is that they can offer educational diversity. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U107	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that there is reason to believe that the diversity of sources of financing creates a competitive advantage for private schools in recruiting teachers. What is the basis for this statement? I would also like to know what is wrong with the competition between teachers and good teachers moving from school to school.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U109	Thank you. It is not good for teachers to move from school to school because of unequal conditions created by the state. Inequality begins with different freedoms and different responsibilities. It must now be said that the municipal school network bears all constitutional obligations and private schools have freedoms, which is guaranteed by the Constitution. They can set up a school of their own size and on the terms of their choice and charge tuition fees. In this sense, their financing conditions and opportunities for economic management are quite different, and that is the problem. This will result in educational stratification if we continue this system. Now, of course, it cannot be said that this stratification is already felt, but the tendency that private schools have better chances of getting pupils because of unequal conditions is obvious. The consequence is the uneconomic nature of the education system and the shift in costs towards enabling action, rather than shifting to the content of education, which has been a state policy. In terms of indicators, private schools are not economical; this is a fact according to current statistics. This is also due to the fact that they have tried to create very special conditions, smaller classes, etc., which means a more costly learning environment if the taxpayer can offer children.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U110	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U111	Thank you. There are almost 50 private schools in Estonia. How many of them are companies that could be aimed at pursuing profit?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U112	Thank you. It is clear that private schools do not only have the advantage of a larger wallet, especially an educational advantage. Parents want an educational advantage. Whether or not dividends are distributed is simply not relevant to this issue. Probably not much sharing. I'm not aware of that. At the same time, I know at least one very common school, but a private school with a very decent economic outcome. In this sense, seeking this advantage is not a problem; every parent tries to do so in thoughts and actions. The question is whether public money must be used in the public interest, i.e. in a normal school to guarantee everyone free and high quality education or to create special conditions for some children. The Auditor General spoke most keenly on this subject at the government meeting, and he focused on it. The Chancellor of Justice has addressed the same issue and found that tax money cannot be used to create advantages. There is a fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U113	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U114	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. You said in your speech that one of the main reasons why private schools cannot continue to be financed in this form is against the Constitution. How can it be deduced that education support will continue to be provided by the state to them consistently, but that no operating support will be provided? If something is unconstitutional, it should be unambiguous. Am I getting something wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U115	Thank you! I guess you can. I've already dealt with it myself. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure in connection with the implementation of the provisions of the Constitution. If municipalities and the state, or central government, guarantee free school places for pupils, they also have different funding places. Some are responsible for the school network, which means covering operating costs, managing schools, optimising the network. This is about municipalities who know the needs and wishes on the ground most clearly and make choices within their own budget. The state is responsible for the content of education, which is, to the greatest extent, the motivation of teachers, but it also includes teaching tools, currently also the salary of directors and, in my opinion, the really relatively local function of school food. But that is not the subject we are dealing with right now. The content of education is, in a simple way, the responsibility of the state. When comparing schools, it should be taken into account that some also have clear social obligations to ensure, in certain cases, the availability of student homes and transport, as well as regionally uniform location of schools. If you look at the location of private schools, of course they have good conditions in Tallinn and Tartu, where the standard of living is higher and the concentration of students is higher. Poorer is the case with municipal schools, which also need to operate where there are fewer children and their parents' income is lower. Here, the statistical correlation itself is very eloquent. Municipalities that do not have private schools are also municipalities with lower incomes. So I urge the Riigikogu to take this issue socially responsible. It should not be said that the wishes of certain interest groups constitute a basic public need.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U116	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U117	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. This recent discussion has given the impression that private schools are living under gold rain. I'm sure you can't agree with that. About 4% of students study in private schools in Estonia. I have seen a table of some kind, and I do not remember exactly which table it was, which showed that 18% of students study in private schools in the European Union on average. Why do you think Estonia is at the bottom of this table? Why do we have fewer students in private schools? And it seems to me that this bill will take us even further down.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U118	Thank you. I am truly sorry that you have seen some table, the source of which you do not know exactly, even though our discussion on the subject has been going on for almost a year. This is a very serious issue and could be taken into consideration. Private schools operate under very different conditions in different countries. On terms as available as private schools in Estonia do not operate elsewhere in Europe. We have not identified any countries with such funding conditions. I have tirelessly brought the example of Chile, because it is the only analogue and it corresponds to the social order of Latin America. The result is a very large educational gap from which the government is trying to emerge. A private school can mean a completely ordinary school managed by a foundation, as is the case in the Netherlands. There, the private school is subject to all public regulations, just the school is independent. There are more examples. When it comes to parallel private and public schools, we have studied not only the Netherlands but also Nordic experiences. Above all, it is because these countries have been great examples for us in the field of education. And there are a number of restrictions, including those we've never thought of. There are wage restrictions, limitations on the size of the school, restrictions on the establishment of the school, permits from both the state and the municipality are expected, for example, in Finland, a ban on tuition fees or, if taken, public funding is reduced by tuition fees, etc. These are very severe restrictions compared to what is in force in Estonia according to the Constitution. So the numbers are incomparable. Your political friends, I am talking about a lobbyist here, and I have also been invited to look at Finnish private schools to see how well they work. I don't know, maybe I got on that list by accident. In Finland, however, 2% of children attend private schools and these schools are subject to restrictions. They have tried to limit these schools to a very large extent after the war, which 2% have been achieved in more than 100 years. There are social problems that arise when, in some schools, funding opportunities are very high and there are children of parents with a greater social impact and a thicker wallet. These risks have been predicted. We have to see them coming, too. By maintaining more freedom in our regulations than in the Nordic countries, we must, however, be socially sensitive and think about society as a whole. This is a very multifaceted problem, a cultural, security, integration problem. Whether our children live in the same educational space, the same spiritual space, whether they have the same school story, whether they understand the world in the same way, or whether they are separated from other people not only by intergenerational walls, but also by walls between them. This is a very serious problem in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U119	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U120	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! You have been critical of the amendment to the Private School Act approved in this Chamber in 2011 and called it an accident at work. What do you think, and what do you remember that happened in this hall then? How was such a decision taken? What political forces supported this, and what was your position as Minister? There was no information in this hall about the possible effects of the law, it was another confrontation between Toompea and the sub-city, or whatever the members of the Riigikogu were affected in your opinion? Was it just a temporary distraction?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U121	Thank you. I do not want to judge the members of the Riigikogu, but the attitude was certainly very reckless, very superficial. The government was not consulted, the experts were not consulted. All the last ministers of education, regardless of the party, Tõnis Lukas, Jaak Aaviksoo and Jevgeni Ossinovski, have strongly opposed this change. Certainly, the Minister of Education of the Centre Party would have opposed this if he did not simply opt for it now. The problem is that the Riigikogu was allowed to speak up and found that duties can be imposed on the local government without allocating money. But the money could only be allocated at the expense of teachers' salaries if we actually took it. This bill is very closely linked to the pay of teachers. I have read a lot of statements, which are trying to narrowly deny budgetary links, but this regulation has cost more than 3% of teachers' salaries for two years in a row. For next year, the cover will only be temporary. This could have raised teachers' salaries by 3.5% and by some estimates even by 3.8%, but instead, we subsidise private schools with public money, allowing them better conditions than municipal schools. This is a problem and local government associations have also strongly opposed this system. So please take this bill seriously!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U122	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U123	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! There's nothing new in this world, it's just forgotten about the old one. There has never been equal treatment of teachers. I once chose a young specialist because in secondary vocational schools the teacher's salary was 20% higher than in regular schools. So there was an appreciation for the teacher, yes. At the moment it is exactly the same situation, absolutely not guaranteed the equal treatment of state secondary schools and municipal secondary schools, some are slightly better, others are slightly worse. That's my question. In your reply to Mr Ammas, you said that there was some confusion in this Chamber in its own time; the Riigikogu was spoken out. And the responsible was the minister. Why didn't the Minister resign after such a very serious legal mistake? Even now, Aaviksoo has not taken responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U124	Thank you. The minister was at the time Tõnis Lukas and he was not responsible for this was not asked. As far as equal treatment of teachers is concerned, the pay conditions are the same for teachers. The question is, what is the burden on someone? One of the problems with the current regulation is that it makes the school network uneconomic and shifts the funding burden from teacher pay to operating costs. If this regulation persists on one side, there are full freedoms without the taxpayer being able to speak along, then this trend will not disappear and the direction will be in the opposite direction to what has been maintained by the last ministers of education and the last governments, and I would still argue that the last Riigikogus. One of the priorities of education is teacher's pay, motivated teacher's separate subject. However, a good wage is also a prerequisite for the full burden of teachers and the control of operating costs. It's all about this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U125	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U126	Thank you, good speaker! Good minister! During your long political career, you have experienced the difficulty of several ministerial positions. Don't you feel that your redistributive tax system, which is a budget patching system, doesn't work in small country conditions? Rather, we need an education, research and tax system that creates new values for the country. Wouldn't private schools rather be a system that tries to create new values for the country? The government can't create it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U127	I'm sorry, but what you read on that piece of paper really made me wonder. When we talk about the tax system, we should keep the issue of spending separate. Can the government create values? The government sector is also included in its own gross domestic product (GDP). The government offers a wide range of services, including educational services. If it's not a value, what is it? The educational service provided by the government is defined in the Constitution as free educational service. Even in opposition, it is not worth denying that the government is also working and offering citizens benefits, not eating the tax money itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U128	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U129	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. It has remained clear from the explanatory memorandum and from what you have said so far that the reason why we have to deal with this bill here is, at least in part, that the increase in costs in the form of operating support for private schools is projected to rise very sharply. I would point out that we are now at a time when the number of students is increasing. But I have such a simple question. If there were no private schools from tomorrow, then these students must go somewhere, whether they go to municipal school or public school, it doesn't matter. If there were no private schools from tomorrow, would we increase, disappear, remain the same or decrease in terms of the state budget? What's the score?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U130	Thank you. Tomorrow's state budget costs would be reduced because we currently have an emergency situation in the law: we have a duty to cover the property costs of the private owners of schools by means of a court ruling, and we would be freed of that in itself. But the danger of private schools finishing tomorrow is neither there nor coming. Private schools have also proved very viable without operating costs. Unlike municipal schools, they have the flexibility to change their activities. I was actually hoping you'd ask if all the students had a place in school, if all the kids had a chance to study. Yes, even if private schools were to be completed, all children would have a place of school and a free place of school. However, the education system would become somewhat more one-sided. In that case, there would be no separate Waldorf schools. And if we didn't make an exception to the constitutional attitude of the country to treat all religions the same, then we wouldn't have Christian schools either. According to the Constitution, the state does not have the task of subsidising certain religions. Even if it is because we also probably have a very different attitude of the taxpayer towards religions, and if these schools are to be financed in the education system, the consequences are likely to be something we do not want. That's the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U131	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U132	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. In your previous reply, you made it quite clear that it was up to the local authorities to cover the operating costs. Unfortunately, they still have to decide that they must support private schools, otherwise they will be shut down. As a result, local authorities will have additional liabilities of about 10 million. If we take away the investment component and cover operating costs, we will receive some EUR 10 million in additional commitments to local authorities. What kindergarten teachers' salaries, support specialists' salaries, and the fees for community school teachers are paid from what resources, then? Why is there a confrontation between teachers in general education schools versus other educational professionals? Why is it not that the state does not have enough money, but local authorities should have enough money?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U133	Thank you. If you want to say that the state is paying this money, of course, the municipalities do not have such a budget line. But they've traditionally had this budget line. The judgment was only handed down at the end of 2014 and the state's announcement that it would pay for a year and then change the system only arrived this year. Municipalities have this line in their budgets. Secondly, now, afterwards, we pay the local governments money for the children of private schools for this four year period, because the court orders them to do so. Again, they have the opportunity to fund their private schools. In addition, for several years now, we are systematically taking the educational costs of municipalities over the state upper secondary schools network, and now with a comprehensive school investment programme. In total, this money will amount to 240 million until 2020. This programme will be launched next year to the tune of 15 million. All of this reduces the operating costs of municipalities, allows them to optimise their school network and save on education. Municipalities have the opportunity to fund private schools, and they also have this will. I cannot speak for any municipal council, but I know from the questioning of the people of my party that most municipalities would fund their children to attend private schools, also in terms of operating costs. So there's no taking away any money. Disputes are probably the most difficult in Tallinn, and I would advise all politicians to focus on finding solutions in Tallinn, not to try to pay teachers' salaries for real estate development.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U134	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! At one time, a group discussed how to train children to swim. The arguments went over whether on your back or on your chest, on your back, on your back, or on a butterfly. Eventually, one person thought that maybe swimming pools should be built. Today we are talking about private schools and other schools and their funding, and we are not talking about chronic underfunding. No matter how we do not rearrange labels, whether we are pushing the blame on the local government, the ministry or parents, this is chronic and catastrophic underfunding. Here's my question. How can we help you with the common goal of not raising the pay of teachers by moving money from one box to another and creating an illusion that everything is okay? How can at least 10% of the budget be added to the educational sphere for the sake of Estonia's sustainability?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U136	Thank you. I'm always at home when the money comes in, but I don't agree that it's being poured into a stupid system. If you want to help me, the first thing you need to do is think about it. There is no chronic underfunding in education, there is chronic real estate overfunding. This is a problem and this has already been said by several governments, several education ministers. We spend too much on real estate and proportionally too little on teachers. We have underburdened teachers, we have empty schools and classrooms, we have the smallest classes in OECD countries. True, we also have almost the best quality of education, but research does not confirm that small classes are responsible for this quality. It is not the smallness of the class that determines the good quality of education, but the motivational and qualified teacher. We want to bet on it. We have a separate budget programme. As we know, the Ministry of Education has first drawn up a programme-based budget. There is a teacher programme that includes a variety of measures, including training and, of course, raising teachers' salaries. It makes no sense to talk about putting on the same way and pouring 10% of the money everywhere. That's not possible. This money can only come from the taxpayer. But we have no moral right to ask the taxpayer any more until we fix the system. And we're working on organizing the system, including this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U137	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U138	Thank you. You said that private schools could encourage educational stratification. Triin Lauri's doctoral thesis, which was recently defended at Tallinn University, clearly points out that educational stratification is primarily encouraged by the very early selection of children in schools. Many municipal schools also carry out school tests. Do you have any plans to deal with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U139	Thank you. First of all, these two things are not opposites. Estonia has so far done very well with educational stratification. Estonia's regional and social differences in access to education are very small compared to other European and OECD countries. We have the lowest proportion in all three groups of subjects in the European Union, for which statistics come to be found, and this is largely linked to the principle of our school of convergence and to the fact that we have kept the school network and the level of education even. I don't have a very accurate overview of how many schools are experimenting. I don't know how many schools do this, but I'm sure private schools choose children. They certainly choose children in the sense that they charge tuition. And the key to preventing educational stratification is free education. A free school place should be available for all children and the younger the grade, the closer the school must be to home. We can proudly say that we have successfully managed to prevent educational stratification. And that line needs to be kept, not broken.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U140	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U141	Thank you. Dear Minister, In the meantime, I got the impression that when you talk about private schools, you sound like a parallel world. For me, private schools are part of Estonian education, and I am quite convinced that for you, too. With this draft, we are trying to regulate part of this area, i.e. funding, and I disagree with you on that. I would not very much like to support this draft in this form, but I hope that we will come to a common understanding. As far as the Supreme Court is concerned, in my opinion, the Ministry of Education and Research defended the existing situation precisely with the arguments that the opponents are attacking the draft presented today. Perhaps you can comment on why the Ministry spoke one thing in court and now another understanding was reached? And I also have a question that if private schools receive training permits from the ministry and are subject to public supervision, what are the requirements that private schools do not have to meet?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U142	Thank you. It is extremely good that you have already dealt with this bill on individual issues. The fact that you were talking about the trial is very good. But imagine what the situation was then: it was a dispute between Tallinn and the state. The Ministry of Education must protect the positions of the state taken by the Riigikogu. However, the Ministry of Education has never shared the position taken by the Riigikogu in 2010, he has always been extremely critical in this regard and has foreseen the problems that I have been talking about here. But this does not mean that we would have been entitled to go to court to defend Tallinn's positions when the capital brought the matter to the Supreme Court. This is a very peculiar situation. Schizophrenic, but inevitable and prescribed by the legislator. The Supreme Court declared it unconstitutional and prescribed us to change this schizophrenic situation. Now from the parallel world. I'm certainly not the person who treats things as a parallel world, but I keep getting signals that a lot of lobbyists represent themselves living in a parallel world. Yesterday, a nice petition was launched, the only thing in which was to stop the bill. This is despite the fact that the Auditor General, the Chancellor of Justice and the Supreme Court have called for the amendment of the law, that the constitutional situation has clearly been proven and that the municipalities are extremely upset with the situation that is now. And there was a reproach that they wouldn't talk to them. This was said by a person who has been spoken to for hours, with whom I personally have spoken for hours, but has not heard any ideas. But they complain they don't talk to them. We held a public session of the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu. Ten people were present, but the ideas were practically zero. They were only complaining that they would not be spoken to and that they would not be taken into account. I think it's a parallel world. By the way, the comment was that if we now have to raise the tuition fees, the children of the orphanage will no longer receive paid education. Can you imagine the social nerve of people who talk like that? Can the problem of children's children be poor access to paid education? Never! If there are philanthropic organisations that pay for them to study in private schools, it is very nice, but certainly the basic problem of orphans is not the inability to pay tuition fees. In no democratic society, orphans are placed in this position, but are provided with the highest possible quality free education. As regards this draft, which you have rather tried to deal with through Facebook, I warned in my report about the amendments that you have called out. They are still in conflict with the Constitution on three main points, based on what has been expressed in the media. Firstly, the establishment of private schools cannot be restricted. You asked for a training permit. The only criterion for granting a training permit can be the guaranteed quality. We can, at your request, add an opinion from the local authorities. It's probably very reasonable, too. I've proposed it myself in the ministry. But let's be realistic, we have 200 municipalities, maybe 100 in the future. But we never know if all 100 municipal children go to local schools. The establishment of private schools can never be restricted, but it must give the municipalities the right to consider covering their operating costs. That's the point. It is still not possible to prescribe to municipalities that they cover the operating costs of private schools. I understand that this is still their desire that the operating costs of existing private schools should be paid back. This is not possible forcibly, but it is highly likely that this will be done voluntarily. This should be dealt with by all politicians, not by creating new unconstitutional situations. Local authorities should be encouraged to care about educational diversity. The third thing: I also said this in my speech, that the Chancellor of Justice took a break when he spoke about it in the government hearing, stressing that he now speaks like the Chancellor of Justice, even though he spoke like the Chancellor of Justice before. This uncontrolled school network, in which the school has all the freedoms, has the right to demand tuition fees and full funding, makes it difficult for municipalities to fulfil their constitutional obligation, which is to guarantee free quality education. This situation must be brought to an end quickly, otherwise a responsible parent will soon no longer have a free alternative to quality education. This is a very serious statement. Please do not touch on the content of these three things with your amendments. We will remain within the limits of the compromises that we are already more or less seeing, these are the dissipation of the school network in the draft and support for diversity separately from the Ministry of Education's budget. With these proposals, I will come out in January. I've already mentioned the third one.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U143	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U144	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! The representatives of private school umbrella organisations and the civil movement from the Public Education have complained of the concern that the Ministry of Education loses letters with their views when drafting a draft law, ignores their appeals, fails to reply to their letters, staggers with numbers, delays in responding to requests for information. Can you confirm that this is not the case? If that is the case, how does a good ministry for education and education justify it? Is anyone responsible for ensuring that public authorities comply with the rules of good administration and the culture of government administration?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U145	Thank you. I don't know any cases that prove it to be true. I can ask if any letters have been lost. But there's been a disproportionate deal with this company. I also accepted their activist and spoke to him alone. In addition, we have met at the meetings and at the level of officials very many times. We have also met in the Riigikogu. The deal was we talk for half an hour and a half. And it didn't matter, in the first quarter of an hour it was clear what their ideas were. Ideas are the same as those in the petition: do nothing, finance us twice further, create special conditions for us. Look, you can't do that. We have the opinion of the constitutional institutions that this situation must not continue. And you have to take your country very seriously. If we do not take our citizens seriously and believe that they must be treated by category, that they must be granted privileges by individual decisions, without regard to what is public interest, it is a political choice. But we do not have a legal choice in this sense that we cannot ignore the Supreme Court and the Chancellor of Justice. In fact, the Auditor General cannot be ignored; he must be listened to, sometimes by agreeing with him, sometimes by arguing with him, but the signal he has given must nevertheless be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U146	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U147	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Minister! I have this feeling that you were defaming the representatives of private schools right now. I have seen documents where they have made different proposals, not those you have described here. But I'll pick up where I got to with my last question. I first heard today that the minister actually answered my question, but I'd like to go a little further. You claimed that the state is currently paying for so-called private schools' houses. However, your ministry has made a table that clearly shows that private schools have a lower operating grant than municipal schools and that the latter is smaller than public schools. As far as I know, the operating grant has a ceiling of EUR 91. What, then, is the basis of your claim that if all students in private schools were to attend municipal or public schools, the cost of the state budget would be reduced? Is there more to be paid than this 91 euro?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U148	Thank you. If you accuse me of defamation, please prove it. I have not seen any serious proposals left on the sieve, which would not be contrary to the Constitution, which would not freeze this situation. If you have seen anything else, please prove it, do not make empty statements! The cost savings are that municipalities provide free schooling for their children. They have the means to do that. They have underburdened schools and underburdened teachers. If we wanted to make the education system completely uniform, we did not want to do that, it would be economically clear savings. It would no longer be necessary to pay the operating costs of so many buildings. This savings would be over 7 million next year. Surely there would also be savings in ensuring that teachers and rooms are fully burdened and that we can contribute more to the content of education. It's efficiency that I'm talking about. Once again, however, it makes no sense for private schools to expect economical behaviour in terms of the state's responsibilities. From them we expect and have also gained initiative, enthusiasm and a more diverse approach. At the same time, we cannot complain that this approach is not already felt in our regular schools; alternative methods are also applied in regular schools. I suggest you go to them, look the children in the eye and then assess whether it is justified to make their learning conditions worse with some very distinctive financing model that is not practiced anywhere else in the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U149	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U150	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! In the debate on this subject, you have very consistently linked the issue of teachers' potential wage increases and funding for private schools, and you have been quite offended when your opponents, including the speaker here, have found it inappropriate and divisive to the school people. Did you really see the same change in the financing of private schools as a source of cover when your party set out to establish the salaries of teachers at 120% of the average wage in Estonia? Or did you have a bigger plan now that you haven't shared with us yet? I am thinking of a broader plan than the internal savings highlighted in my response to my colleague, Mr Black.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U151	There have been basically a couple of sources for me and the previous ministers of education. One is ordering the system, the other is extra money. What was done with this draft was disorderly and meant increasing uneconomicism and losing control of economic costs. That's a problem. If you deny that connection, I'll go over it. From this year's budget, I believe we were forced to pay 6.5 million. I'm a little worried about this decimal right now, not the main number. We could have been more focused on teachers' salaries, which would have been over 3% of teachers' salaries. Next year it will be more than 7 million, 7.2 or 7.1 million, a nuance. The statistics on the number of students may vary slightly, but basically we pay private schools for operating costs, which we would actually like to pay for teachers' salaries. This is more than 3.5% of teachers' salary next year. That money's already been taken from them. To achieve this 120%, we are applying for additional money. I've been told on several occasions that this money will be found. The first year wasn't even found for private schools. Apparently, the coalition's agreements did not reach the officials of the Ministry of Finance who set the control numbers. It was a big surprise to me. These arguments were also not heard in the negotiations, and this was an even bigger surprise. However, I am promised that this issue will be reopened during the debate on the country's budgetary strategy in the spring and that this 120% of the average wage will still be the goal of the coalition. I'd like to get off this subject by now. The teacher's salary cannot be the whole of education and research policy. I would also like us to begin to value science, which may ultimately lead us to the top countries. Right now, we're keeping to the middle level.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U152	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U153	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Why are state requirements and conditions school-based and take into account ownership, while funding is child-specific? Isn't there a contradiction here? If so, how can we solve it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U154	Thank you. I may have been a little distracted. Funding is child-based, though, and it expresses our rather competitive view of the matter: we are giving along the money that ensures the content of education with the student. It used to be called a bounty, right now we're trying to avoid that term. But we can't give in to real estate costs. If we were to give, as one proposal has sounded through the media, the cost of real estate with the child, we would be deceiving ourselves. After all, these costs remain where the child comes from, this money must be paid by the municipality. And in the new place at the same time, these costs will not be added. In this sense, competition is always a matter of many ends. Unfortunately, although it is about education, money promotes a relatively emotional movement based on popularity, not necessarily on objective indicators. And it's going so fast that the education system can't adapt to it. The education system will never be able to redesign its institutions as quickly as a teenage child changes his or her friends or teachers. So he's student-centred, and we still have to stick to it. Society has already made very high expenditures on infrastructure and must inevitably continue to do so. That is why, as far as I know, the full voucher system that we have advocated through the media is not being implemented anywhere in the world, and in which it is as if the child can carry his square meters when he changes schools. I can't! It still has to be paid for, and it's a social cost. Society actually costs this enthusiasm, all the voluntary help and also tuition fees that private schools have. So, as far as costs are concerned, private schools have no advantage other than the fact that they can set up a school of their own size that municipalities cannot do. They can't be that flexible. But they're trying to offer very special conditions, and that's why they're still expensive for society. The total cost it generates, we actually don't reflect anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U155	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U156	Thank you, President-in-Office. Thank you, Minister, for your excellent answers. I would like to ask for an explanatory statement on this sentence, which says that all stakeholders are involved in various debates. As members of the Committee on Culture, we have met these interest groups. These meetings have repeatedly claimed that they have not been involved anywhere in discussions, reporting, etc. Why do you think people talk like that about each other? You referred to meetings in the Ministry, so how are the interest groups involved or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U157	Thank you. I'm afraid they're spoiled. First, they were spoiled in 2010. The members of the Riigikogu let themselves be spoken up and found that they were very progressive when they intervene and force local governments to pay. My gut would never allow it. It is not possible that we are ordering the municipalities to finance a parallel private school, which is created simply at the request of someone, and at the same time we expect them to reduce their school network. It was a very incredible decision. Secondly, they are spoiled by the fact that I hear from my officials all the time that representatives of private schools probably have the hope that endless meetings without any new thought by them will eventually force the country to behave unreasonablely and take into account the interests of the group. These representatives have not been very generous. Ten people go to the Committee on Culture and basically have the same statements: either the declarations read out of paper or the complaints that they are not involved. In this sense, one member of the Committee on Culture noted that listen, but that is inclusion. This is where we listen to you, please start talking! It was great, it was a bright moment for this whole very frustrating meeting. Indeed, you can speak, argue, refer to the Constitution, to social risks, to everything! But there are ten people sitting across from you who only tell the story that we're not getting involved. It's pretty depressing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U158	Mr. Minister! I would like to ask you to sit down for a moment, because the plenary of the Riigikogu must make procedural decisions. The Bureau has received a proposal from the Social Democratic Party Group to extend the current session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. We are obliged to vote on this proposal. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. 53 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal, 15 against, 2 abstentions. The working time of the plenary session has been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please, Mr. Minister, let's continue! Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U159	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, The number of students to study in private schools is expected to be 6272 in the coming year. Question: Is there a prognosis as to how many of these students cannot continue their studies at a private school because of the economic burden of paying tuition fees? Is there a prognosis that many of these 6200 cannot continue and must go to municipal school?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U160	Thank you. Such a forecast cannot be made. In any case, it falls into the realm of fantasy because we do not know the choices of councils until they are made. My estimate is that most councils decide to continue financing their children's private school and also to cover the economic costs of these schools. However, we also do not know how sensitive the parents of these children are to raising their tuition fees. In itself, tuition fees are not high in most private schools. Those who have chosen paid education are certainly aware that tuition fees can rise. I think these schools are very viable. However, I would like to point out that the Riigikogu must primarily deal with national issues, i.e. the obligations of the state under the Constitution. Praxis estimates that 100 out of 530 schools will be closed in Estonia over the next five years. That's what Praxis has done. If we write the average number of children in these closed schools, we will see that the state guarantee, the assurance that all children can continue in an existing school, is not in ordinary schools either. Here, the municipality's consideration can end very painfully. It's the same with private schools. But I've received so much feedback that I'm optimistic about the ability of private schools to survive. Influential parents, including wealthier parents, do not leave private schools alone and come to help. They also come to help with municipal money.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U161	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U162	Thank you, good speaker! Good minister! I understand from what you are saying that you have three main arguments why you do not like the system of financing private schools. First of all, you have said here several times that teachers' salaries are suffering, but you have pointed out that local authorities are overburdened. Thirdly, you do not like the fact that private schools have committed themselves to carrying out their activities somewhere and the associated costs. But I suggest you review the country's real estate system, which has increased the costs of local governments and others at least three times. Do you have studies that show that public schools are cheaper than private schools in terms of real estate, labour and management costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U163	Thank you. I do not like, in principle, the three things that the Chancellor of Justice has said about the compatibility of the current regulation with the Constitution, about the set of amendments. I like private schools very much, and I have also publicly said that I would have put my children in private schools if I had sensed that the schools they were put in were too bad. Fortunately, it is rare in Estonia that the quality of education in some schools is questioned. As I said, in the international dimension, this risk is nonexistent. In other parts of society, differences are mostly greater than ours. We can't help them get worse. What was your question again? You have given me some opinions that I cannot agree with... [[Interjection.]] Oh, the question was about real estate. Yes, we have compared these costs on the basis of official reports. I have also asked Statistics Estonia to complement their work programme for the coming years by asking for and publishing more detailed information on the costs of private schools. But on the basis of the available reports, we can say that private schools are undoubtedly an expensive type of school. Rocca al Mare is one of the most active, including the most politically active private schools, and the place of this school costs a good one-and-a-half times more, I dare not say whether this figure is closer to 2 than 1.5 than a place in a municipal school that is comparable to it. We also compared it to Arte's school. What's more interesting: since private schools can choose and choose the most viable areas, both in terms of people's income and population density, most of them operate in areas where municipal schools are much less expensive due to their economics than private schools have now been able to trade from the state, from the municipality. While the economic costs of the square metre in Tallinn were 53 euros and 58 euros in Tartu, private schools still asked for 91 euros. So, in terms of economics, the difference is more than one-and-a-halffold in operating costs alone. But that is precisely what enables us to offer special conditions and attract parents to choose this school. But pedagogically, this is not the perfect choice. I repeat, small classes are not a pedagogical ideal. A small class does not show the quality of education, rather the ideal is if the teacher is well motivated. The problem of small classes is poorer social skills and a smaller circle of friends. It's not a trifling thing. And in general, they try not to select children; in later life, there is a selection anyway; in childhood, it could be avoided. As far as state property is concerned, I've told it from this remote control several times that we're dealing with it. That's why we have an investment programme of 241 million to pull together the school network. That is what we do in cooperation with the municipalities. We are not building state secondary schools in order to make more schools, but to reduce school space, so that local governments have an attractive alternative to their small underburdened upper secondary schools, so that they separate from them primary school and focus on developing high-quality basic education. That's what we do. These are all painful decisions, but they are made by the state in close cooperation with the municipalities. Similarly, private education must be dealt with in cooperation with municipalities. Cooperation between municipalities and private schools should also improve. When we write the definition of a school network into this law, it is not with the aim of obliging municipalities to pay private schools, but with the aim of giving a signal to look at the school network as a whole and to assess its diversity, also in view of the different alternatives. In principle, a private school can be such that it is not interested in taxpayers' money at all and does not collect tuition fees. It is then a general education provided in cooperation with the municipality, in particular basic education. There's a way. This option that the municipality is financing operating costs is, in my opinion, the basic scenario for Estonia in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U164	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U165	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Private general education schools for children with special educational needs have, according to this draft, been given a "breath break" until 2020. We all agree that schools for children with special educational needs are not classic private schools, but have established parents of disabled children who do not have many other choices. The current solution proposed is temporary and time goes fast. Does the Ministry of Education and Research have an action plan on how to ensure the best possible access to education for these children with HEV2 or more serious disabilities? After all, we are also talking about labour capacity reform, and it is education that is one of the prerequisites for us to consider this reform to be a success in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U166	Thank you for the substantive and socially sensitive issue. The issue of the HEV schools is in the background here. HEV2-Kids' schools are a private way. We offer them this solution as a temporary solution, not with the emphasis on temporaryity, but with the emphasis on the guarantee. In itself, we intend to systematically take the education of children with special needs into the hands of the state, but we will not, in the future, exclude agreements with private schools. We just don't know what the deal is yet. We made such an paragraph to make sure that it didn't affect the situation of these children. These schools are now funded on the basis of real costs, and my gut tells me that if it helps the parents of these children to participate better in their children's education and coping with them, it may be practical that private contributions will continue to be visible. I'm going to go over one more aspect. Very much is said that children with special needs need private schools. That's not true. Most of the so-called HEV2 children are already under the care of the state. However, private contributions are very welcome and a different financing model is in place. And the proportion of HEV1 children in municipal schools is also higher than in private schools. According to recent data, this percentage was 16.7% in municipal schools and 12.2% in private schools. But the main thing I want to draw attention to is that we are trying to raise children with special needs as much as possible with other children. I am going out of the scope of your question, but I think it needs to be noted. This is one of the weaknesses of the criticisms made by lobbyists in private schools, it is as if a private school is essential to provide learning opportunities for children with special needs. Unfortunately, the opposite is the case: private schools obviously cannot afford to teach children with special needs as extensive as they have to support the school first and, secondly, to manage it pedagogically. Based on the experience of the Nordic countries, we also try to train children who have difficulties in coping or coping with normal life as much as possible. Everyone has to cope with a normal society, whether they were a child in a private school or a municipal school.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U167	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! There are major changes in the lives of local governments at the moment. Local authorities with at least 5 000 inhabitants are expected to exist in the future. Is there a rural network of private and municipal schools involved in this restructuring?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U169	That's a good question again. In itself, we cannot directly link the private school network to this. Unlike our administrative system and the free school network, funding private schools is not a constitutional task. However, this reform will affect children and schools in rural areas if the municipalities are larger and if there is a need to communicate with a smaller number of municipalities in order to obtain funding. It should, in itself, also simplify the activities of private schools, and the view of municipal schools and, by the way, vocational schools will certainly be wider in the future. Of course, upper secondary schools do not need to be close to home. But better cooperation with the merged municipalities will certainly also have a major effect in making the school network more economical. No longer do they compete for school places, but take account of local needs. I think that administrative reform is beneficial for the quality of education, that we can target resources more specifically.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U170	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U171	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister of Education and Science! Can you tell me that if the draft law amending the private school law, currently under discussion, were adopted as a law, how many euros would the average teacher's salary rise? And if you can, tell me how you got to that number.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U172	Thank you. I've calculated it once, it's about 400 euros a year. You might call this a small amount, but I think it's quite a lot of money. The stem numbers of this sum are small, but if we multiply it times 15, as we're still used to, it's going to do a lot in the crowns. In its time, it would have been about 60000 kroons per teacher per year. I don't know the motive for adopting this law. Well, at the cost of a teacher's salary, it works now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U173	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U174	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Financing private schools would ensure, like, an increase in teachers' pay and an influx of money into education. How much cash outflow is the Innove and Pathfinder set up at the Ministry of Education and Research? Innove State Exams Department is an absolutely pointless department. How much money does the Ministry of Education and Research use to maintain Innove and the Pathfinder, and is it comparable to the income from private schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U175	Thank you. There's no way I could compare them. Innove itself has been largely a consolidation project. There are different functions grouped together and a more uniform service is provided. This includes a track-finder service, which certainly every county and every school would not be able to offer. This is how it is referred to more economically at the county level and according to the need. Professionals can also be used more economically in this case. However, it cannot be said that this system works perfectly in our central form. Resources are low, specialists are low and needs are growing. But these things certainly can't be compared. Innovel also has other functions, such as training courses, which are more economical to offer centrally than linking them to each particular teacher's salary. So Innove is not a random choice. Once, when I looked at it from a distance, I was critical of this foundation, and now I've found a lot of pros. But Innove will also have our assignment. Ministries, Innove, at their expense, we will then comply with these state or government agreements. We have fewer people in society, and we cannot always get more people in the public sector. There is a specific cut-off task that they have made known and accepted, certainly not with great happiness, but with understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U176	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U177	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Private schools have made investments taking into account the current financing arrangements and their continuation, taking bank loans to ensure that school buildings meet the learning conditions. They have acquired educational resources, including ICT equipment, and have opened new classes. Parents have also had a legitimate expectation that their children's education would continue in this way. Has the Ministry carried out impact analyses and studies to assess how the violation of legitimate expectations proposed by the bill affects private schools, their children and parents?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U178	Thank you. That question has already been asked. Accurate science is certainly not, but without much science it can be said that many private schools have been set up to be unsustainable. We know about what is the relevant optimism from a pedagogical and economic point of view. Private schools do not respond to this optimism, they are more expensively built. As small private schools as they are now in Estonia would mostly be closed as municipal schools. I have heard of a private school with four children; I have heard of a private school with 15 children; they could certainly not be kept at the expense of the taxpayer. In this sense, it makes perfect sense that the Nordic countries have minimum sizes. I cannot name it for each country, but in general, the minimum school size is one indicator according to which the right to attend a private school is granted in some of the countries that set a great example for us. In some cases, it has been left to think of its head, but there are limits to the size or smallness of wages, as I have already said today. Economic constraints are one of the economic laws. If taxpayers' money is to be used, it must be taken into account that the taxpayer does not give it infinitely, but treats the institutions and children equally.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U179	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U180	Mr. Ligi! When you answered one of the previous questions, you also spoke about the connection with the Constitution. I don't remember the text of the Constitution by heart, but I don't think the word 'private school' is mentioned anywhere. Various public schools have been mentioned. Does this, in your opinion, give municipalities and public schools any advantage over private schools or at least obliges you, as a minister of the Republic of Estonia, to deal more with schools established by public authority? Does this mean that you have no direct obligation to stand up for private schools in the same way?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U181	Thank you. I'm not sure I understood the question of a constitutional expert until the last nuance. Advantage or no advantage? In itself, the preference must be that the municipality and the state have a duty to ensure free education in cooperation. Is the concept of private schools within the Constitution? I couldn't find it in my papers right now, but it's quite possible that there's a formula for "different schools" or "other schools" instead of private schools. However, the only condition that I believe the Constitution provides is the provision and responsibility of free education for school types. There has been no interesting talk about this today, but there has been talk of settlement between local governments. In this trial, where the Ministry of Education had to defend the Riigikogu and not its own views, the Supreme Court failed to take into account the analogy. This was considered to be insufficient similarity and it was considered that this obligation cannot be imposed on the municipalities in the case of private schools. The Supreme Court did not agree with the argument that the same regulation should apply to the local government. As an amateur myself in the area of the Constitution, I suppose it still has to be a duty to provide a certain service free of charge. There is a priority for the local government education system compared to a private-owned education system. Of course, the Supreme Court settled this dispute only within the limits of a specific complaint.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U182	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! I had a question during today's parliamentary discussion. I was fascinated by a sentence. You said that you had been sitting together dozens of times and many hours with representatives of private schools and did not get any new ideas. I have, if I've talked to people dozens of times or for hours, always developed some new ideas, if I haven't heard them from the conversation partners, then I myself have had them. Should your sentence be taken as an exact scientific standard, or was it belleristics?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U183	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U184	Thank you. Take it historically. I don't know exactly what that means. But basically, we didn't use the meter. I myself have spent hours with about five private schools, but my officials have really had a lot of contact with them. As far as ideas are concerned, I've really overreacted a little. Understanding how people think, I certainly did. I have to say, unfortunately, that the approach of the spokespersons was well group-centred, far from the responsibility that the state bears and that I bear as an official. This is not unusual or deplorable for group interests, but it hindered their understanding of me. At the same time, after I have had to speak publicly, I have received very commendable personal appeals. One last was when an elder from a private school told me that he thanked me very much and that he agreed with me a hundred percent, too, that he felt he had to pay for the special conditions, and he was very pleased with the current situation. I also really liked the interview with the head of a private school in "Actual Camera." He must have been very disappointed by the news that the country was really engaged in constitutionality. But he said that in this case they would rethink their business plan accordingly if they knew that the state did not support them. Private schools are becoming more and more enthusiastic, but they can't get an automatic warranty on this one they can't count on. They will receive a guarantee in the form of a bounty guaranteeing their children the content of their education, but they will not receive a guarantee that the child will also bring them real estate. They must still have real estate and be funded. The Chancellor of Justice has formulated this aspect in many ways in our conversations, but we think very alike, while also being parents. We understand the concerns of private schools quite well, but we also have our responsibilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U185	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U186	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister, thank you for your good answers. I have taken up § 37 of the Constitution on the subject of education. Private schools are also mentioned here: they have the right to hold them. The main paragraph on which I have a question is, however, that says that parents have the decisive word for choosing children's education. It's in the Constitution. Some of the citizens who have also approached me as a member of the Committee on Culture have been concerned that the draft we are dealing with today is somehow undermining this right of choice for parents. Do you think this bill will reduce parents' chances of choosing a school?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U187	Thank you. That is a good question and reminded me of one of the things that was left to me from the speech of yesterday's private school representatives. It is that the choice of education should, as if, also mean public funding. They were very quick to refer again to the Constitution. I couldn't answer the Dark One exactly, thank you for coming to help me! If we sit together and I present the views of the various experts and constitutional institutions of the Supreme Court, the Chancellor of Justice, the Auditor General, I will do it again and again and again. And then there will be another public performance, where exactly the same words have been spoken to me in May: that you have to hit big, you have to implement a PR company. I know all that. How do you get stuck in the same formulations? As the right to choose education would mean something like this: if I go to a tree, the country will have to pick me up at school. No, education can be chosen within the existing school network. And this existing one must be offered free of charge by the State. The point of the Constitution is not that energy must be directed towards paid education instead of free education and that it must be financed from the budget. This has actually been a very specific choice for the Minister of Education for the second year. Let the lawyers who know the Constitution formulate what this choice means. As far as I can refer these specialists, it's still about the existing school network. You can create additional opportunities and finance these private schools yourself, but if you've decided to create something very special, then the taxpayer doesn't have to react to it by opening the cuffs of your wallet. This certainly is not the point of the Constitution; we are more kind than the Constitution requires. The bounty system, which covers most of the schools' budget, is actually generous in the international dimension. As far as I can compare, I can say that our constitution is extremely liberal with regard to private schools. Their establishment is free, they must not be restricted. That is what I ask you to take into account when making amendments, that we cannot simply divide the language. We are wise to take into account the economic sustainability of the school when granting a training permit, just as we are currently looking at their administrative competence and the quality of their curricula. All of this we're looking at, and we're asking for more detailed plans, if necessary, before we give permission. But in general, we give them licenses. One that the Committee on Culture discusses is the limit to which the opinion of the municipality can be taken into account. In one city, for example, the school network is now quite optimal; school places tend to be left over, but private schools also want to expand to upper secondary school. In any case, we really need to know what the municipality thinks about this. And in future, we will also have to consider whether this will add to the new quality or only the new costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U188	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U189	Thank you. I actually want to put my gratitude to the representative of the people, Alender, who reminded me that § 37 of the Constitution has indeed mentioned private schools. It says there is a right to establish and maintain them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U190	What about the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U191	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Now I would like to ask Kalle Muuli, Member of the Committee on Culture, to present a speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U192	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture actually started discussing this bill before it even happened. As the Minister of Education announced in the spring that the current regime should be abolished, the Commission began receiving a number of letters from the organisations concerned on various issues. So we had to start discussing these problems by then to reply to these letters. The shock of the representatives of private schools was quite great in spring. The Minister said that all previous ministers were very critical of the existing regime, but they did not show that much to the public. The law that is currently in force was actually born with the help of the Ministry. It was initiated by the Committee on Culture, but the Ministry was asked to assist with the technical drafting of the norm. And if the minister really didn't know what was going on in his ministry, that's weird. At the Supreme Court, the Ministry defended those positions that were in the law very keenly. I even read out a statement from the Ministry of Education because it sounds so good: 'The purpose of the regulation is to treat schools with different forms of ownership equally, reduce tuition fees in private schools, promote more equal opportunities for access to private schools and increase students' freedom of choice. " The Ministry informed the Supreme Court on 28 October 2014. After this, the Estonian Association of Private Education Schools, the Estonian Association of Free Waldorf Schools and Kindergartens, our Association of Kindergartens, the Estonian Association of Christian Private Schools, the President and Archbishop of the Estonian Council of Churches, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People and many other organisations began to write to us. I am not going to refer all the answers given by the Committee on Culture, but I will read a few sentences from the response given to the Association of Private General Education Schools, because this principle has been the basis of the Committee on Culture's entire work in discussing this draft law. And these sentences say: 'The effects of changes must be assessed from the point of view of students attending private schools. If necessary, different mitigation needs to be considered in order to ensure the sustainability and integrity of education arrangements, one of the natural components of which is private general education schools. ' The first meeting with representatives of private schools took place this autumn, 10 November. It was a big two-hour event in the conference hall of the Riigikogu, from which a video broadcast was made, so that educators and other public could follow it. Representatives of the Association of Private General Education Schools, the Estonian Chamber of Culture, the Estonian Association of Christian Private Schools, the Estonian Association of Free Waldorf Schools and Kindergartens, the Association of kindergartens, the Board of the Tartu Waldorf Gymnasium and the Association of Estonian Parents, as well as of course the Minister of Education and other officials of the Ministry of Education, were present. The draft itself had not yet reached the Commission by then, but in principle it was ready. The Minister presented the draft as well as the principles on which it was based. Private schools were able to express their views. The Association of Christian Private Schools stressed that the regulation that has been in force since the majority of Estonian Christian schools were established should not be changed in haste and light hands. As far as I know, there are currently nine Christian schools in Estonia, six of which have been established during the period of validity of this law and the knowledge that the operating costs are reimbursed by the state. The commitments have been made accordingly. The representative of the Association of Private General Education Schools recalled that, in fact, the legislation adopted in 2010 was intended to extend the educational choices of the population and the availability of private schools, and this law has served its purpose. The number of private schools has increased. Thus, what was requested by this law has been achieved, and now the Ministry resents the fact that so many private schools have emerged. The Estonian Parents' Association complained there in the presence of the Minister that the Ministry of Education had not involved them in the preparation of the draft law and that the proposed amendment would jeopardise the existence of small schools. All members of the Committee on Culture asked questions both to the Minister and to the representatives of private schools. Chairman of the Commission Laine Randjärv asked ministerial representatives how it would be planned to involve local governments in the process of opening private schools, which are currently excluded and whose opinion would not be sought. A representative of the Ministry replied that in the case of future private schools, municipalities would be asked how they would assess the necessity of the school in their school network, and these opinions would feed into the assessment of the sustainability of the school. Mailis Reps asked whether private schools would be willing to give up tuition fees if the local government or the state covered their operating costs. The response of all representatives of private schools was that, in principle, this would be possible if all roles were specified during the negotiations. Many private schools would be happy to assume the role of free district school if their operating costs were covered. I have presented the position of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Alliance that the current arrangement is not good because local authorities cannot participate in the establishment of private schools, but must also automatically cover the operating costs of private schools. On the other hand, we do not consider the plan proposed by the Ministry to turn the law back to 2010 and to make the whole thing voluntary again. I expressed the opinion that the laws must define the school network and all schools should be part of the school network, regardless of ownership reform. Local authorities should be able to contribute when issuing training permits, at least in the form of an opinion to the Ministry. However, to counterbalance, local authorities should be required to finance all schools equally, regardless of the form of school ownership, in the amount of some kind of voucher or operating money, if this is already included as part of their school network. At the meeting of the Commission, Aadu Black was interested in the amount of education expenditure from the local government budget at all. The reply of the Municipalities Association was that, in most cases, it is more than 50%. So, in fact, this is a very high cost for the local government. Krista Aru was interested in how many municipalities would volunteer to compensate for operating costs. The Municipalities Association replied that, according to these surveys, only one municipality is one that does not want to voluntarily reimburse these expenses. At the same time, it was admitted that this depends very much on the political power that is currently in the majority of the council. You can't really say that. Mihkel Raud wondered whether the Minister felt that a compromise could be reached between private schools and the Ministry's applications. The Minister considered it necessary to mention the Waldorf schools, who are schools using internationally and also the methodology recognised in Estonia, and for whom there is a clear distinction. There could be some distinction, either in legislative terms or in terms of funding. At this meeting Yoko Alender asked whether the proposed draft would not allow private schools to be part of the school network if local authorities voluntarily bear these costs. The private schools replied that if these costs were incurred, they would be happy to be part of the school network and also to assume the obligations that the school belonging to the school network must have. This includes guaranteeing school places, but all the details need to be discussed with the local government. The draft was handed over to the Riigikogu on 16 November, and on 19 November the Minister presented it to the Commission. The specific nature of the draft is that it has an annex No 2 made by the Minister for Social Protection. According to the Minister, the agreement was that the Ministry of Education and Research would formalise the principles set out in Annex 2 as amendments at second reading. We had little time at that meeting, but the Minister was able to ask a few questions. It was stressed that the draft should not be rushed to avoid the mistakes that were probably made last time when reading the draft law. They also wanted all effects to be considered. One member of the Commission wondered whether, if the local authority were to decide which private schools could be opened and which were not, or at least could have an opinion on it, the local authority would have the competence to say which school must be in its territory with religious teaching or other slopes. The Minister replied that it was up to the local government to consider the diversity of education, but not to challenge the establishment of a private school. After this great gathering, where representatives of all private schools and umbrella organisations were present, the Commission decided that it would proceed by group with discussions, i.e. taking on certain types of schools. On 23 November, we met with representatives of Waldorf schools, and on 24 November, we met people from private schools that provide children with special educational needs. There are five of these schools, as the Minister said, four of them were present, as well as representatives of the Chamber of People with Disabilities and the Ministry of Education. The representatives of the HEV schools were satisfied with the distinction that has been made in the draft law currently being discussed to them, i.e. that the state will continue to finance them from the state budget. One question that was much discussed was that there could also be public funding if a child with special needs went to a private school. The State could then cover the operating costs associated with it. It doesn't matter if he goes to municipal school or public school or special private school. This was primarily about children with lighter disabilities, the so-called HEV1 children. Yesterday, on December 7, the Committee on Culture met with representatives of Christian schools. Today, when this meeting is over, it is scheduled to meet representatives of local governments. There will also be discussions with representatives of the Cities Association, the Association of Rural Municipalities, Tartu City Government and other interest groups until 15 December, when there should be a final meeting when we meet with representatives of the Public Education Managers and the Private General Education Schools Association. There's been talk about not involving interest groups, not listening. I would say the opposite: the Committee on Culture has indeed done this work very thoroughly. Without any intention, I would like to congratulate the chairman of the Committee on Culture for his very thorough preparatory work. Every member of the Committee on Culture who has wanted to discuss these issues on the front, on the back and on the side. The Commission has tried, with the help of its good officials, to carry out small research on this subject anywhere, we did not find out what impact this law could have on private schools and our education at all. Commission officials have compiled questionnaires and tables which have been sent to private schools. The only responses that are currently received are received and some have not been received, so that no generalisations and no conclusions can yet be drawn. But we have tried in this way to compensate for the lack of a thorough study by the Ministry of this bill. Thanks to the press, I know that yesterday the Riigikogu was handed over a petition from the civil movement from Public Education. It has over 10,000 signatures and is requested to suspend the processing of the bill in the Riigikogu. The Committee on Culture has not yet reached this petition. As far as I know, the Board of the Riigikogu has not yet appointed a committee dealing with this petition. When it comes to the Committee on Culture, we will probably discuss it as thoroughly as today's draft law. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Commission has met as many representatives of private schools as possible, as well as representatives of local authorities. Some of us have met twice and some have met three times. We took procedural decisions on Tuesday, 24 November. These were the following: to propose that the draft be put on the agenda of the plenary session by 8 December (this proposal was approved by consensus), to appoint Kalle Muuli as rapporteur (including by consensus), to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 22 December (as well as a consensual decision). The decision to close the first reading was taken by the votes of 6: 4.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U193	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U194	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The vote was at 6: 4. What groups were in favour of completing the first reading, and what members of the group opposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U195	The government was in favour, the opposition opposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U196	Thank you. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. March Sults, Central Party faction, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U197	Honourable Vice President! Colleagues! There has now been so much talk about it, cross-breathing, lying down and standing and, as Kalle Muuli said, on the side. I want to draw attention to a few things. There are two relevant laws in the Republic of Estonia. One is the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the other is the Private School Act. I mean, if there's one law, all kinds of two-way opinions will disappear. According to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the completion of the primary school must be 24 years old, 32 years old. And if that is not the case, then the funding will then be subject to some coefficients or something else, netting methods. That's one thing. The Ministry of Education has not bothered to deal with legislation and that is why private schools were created because it was possible to do all kinds of tricks there. But that doesn't mean they're evil. There was also talk of stratification and confrontation between teachers' pay versus private school funding. This is an extremely brutal claim that if private schools are financed, municipal school teachers are not paid. Extremely brutal! Honor and glory to our Minister for Education and Science! The enlargement is yes, the stratification is the financing of state secondary schools and the financing of municipal secondary schools. There is nothing more to say than to mention that in state secondary schools, 100% of school meals are funded in upper secondary schools, in municipal schools just as much as the money goes on, the rest must be paid themselves. However, it is an elementary truth that a child with a full stomach is still learning a little better than an empty child. The expectations of private schools are well-founded. When the law was passed and the funding was pushed to the local authorities on a cold stomach, private schools took advantage of the situation and took out economically very well-founded loans. Now they have long-term commitments. You can't change these things on the day, you can't blame private schoolboys for making their own loan decisions. These decisions are completely competent and absolutely correct. And now I'm going to add that the state has never given money to private schoolkeepers. The state has imposed an obligation and after he received the sign of the infringer in the Supreme Court, he was willing to pay. At that time, the state was willing to pay back to the local authorities the money they had spent on private schools, but with a small clause: certified by documents of expenditure and through court. Nothing just came. So the state has never paid for this money, and the current confusion and hysteria has arisen because the state has to keep its promises. And now we have to do something fast and fast. Hence, the Centre Party Group proposes to reject the draft law amending the Private School Act 142 at first reading. It's the Central Party's decision. We think you need to fix your bedroom first, then you can go and review the other dining rooms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U198	Thank you. Mihkel Raud, Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U199	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's first-reading draft law amending the Private School Act and the exploding statements of opinion seem to shake the country and the people emotionally more than the implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act. It seems precisely because, in fact, this draft law, as well as the cohabitation law, directly affects only a rather limited number of people. But passions are in heaven and the whole political spectrum on its head. Right-wing politicians perform pleasantly and sympatheticly with left-wing positions, and on the left-centric wing there is surprisingly a right-wing talk. I am not talking about the rhetoric of individual interest groups; it deserves a completely independent text analysis. No wonder people find it increasingly difficult to understand what we are talking about. No wonder, then, that in a short time, a number of half - truths, a quarter, and a large number of 100% lies have flown. They say the state wants to stop financing private education. It is also said that the state wants to shut down private schools, that the state does not want or appreciate private education. That's not true. The state attaches great importance to private education and continues to finance private schools. Allow me, in a few words, to touch on the seemingly unattractive subject of this bill. I'll explain why I'm doing this. This is also a topic that has already been covered by the teachers' salary during the debate today. Social democrats have formulated, as their education policy priority, an increase in teachers' pay to a level that would actually value teachers' work. The teacher is the key to the future of Estonia, both the teacher who works at the municipal school and the one who works at the educational institution with a different form of ownership. The teacher is a guarantee that in this small country, in a few decades' time, someone will want to live in the first place. If you want to get very pragmatic, you have to raise teachers' salaries so that everyone else has any prospect of getting paid in the future. Thus, the Social Democrats have agreed with their coalition partners that by 2019 teachers' wages will rise to 120% of the Estonian average. If we don't, we can pack up our country. Why am I talking about this? To what extent and if at all, is the draft law dealt with in relation to teachers' salaries? Of course, there is a connection, although it is more convenient and politically safer to ignore this connection. Dear friends! You've all seen the budget for next year, and you know how tense it is. But do you know how unacceptably tense the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research is? I know, and I can assure you, that it is criminally tense, unconstitutionally tense and, in many ways, that the country must make very difficult choices today. Estonian children receive a very good education, and our high-quality education is based on the principle of convergence school. In Estonia, education is equally available to everyone, it is equally measurable on exams and basic education is free for everyone. A situation where one third "top performer" in Estonian schools, or a child with outstanding learning outcomes, has a poor social background, must be regarded as an extraordinary achievement. This situation must be maintained. The Social Democrats do not consider it reasonable that the state is engaged in the creation of two parallel school networks, one of which has a legal obligation to provide public service and provide a school place for each child, while the other has no obligation to do so. We are of the opinion that the current model of financing private schools, i.e. state plus local government plus tuition fees, is not fair. This, in our opinion, leads to educational stratification. At the same time, social democrats believe in the need for educational diversity. We have repeatedly stressed the need to pay special attention to those schools that offer children and their parents a substantive alternative, such as Waldorf schools, in the debates on the draft legislation under discussion. We welcome the intention of the Ministry of Education and Research to create an additional facility for schools offering a real educational alternative. We also welcome the fact that private schools providing so-called HEV2-learning, or children with very serious special educational needs, will continue to be subjects of additional and unconditional assistance from the state. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U200	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U201	The decision approved by the Riigikogu in 2010 and entered into force in 2011, which made the possibility for local authorities to voluntarily finance the operating costs of private schools an obligation, was a bad political decision. Today we have the choice of whether to live with a bad political decision or to do something about it. The Social Democrats believe that mistakes can and must be corrected, and we support the adoption of the draft legislation being processed. At the same time, we consider it crucial to emphasise once again that private schools will continue to have an indispensable place in the Estonian educational landscape. The state education allowance paid to private schools will not go away. Local authorities will continue to be able to finance the operating grant for private schools. As we have heard many times today, many local authorities are planning to do so. We are undoubtedly extremely pleased about this. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U202	Thank you. Priit Sibul on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U203	I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U204	Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U205	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am in this chair to talk about three important issues that should be addressed in the joint debate on this draft. First, parental choice, second, community schools and third, educational innovation. I have a personal experience with the problems of funding education since 2009. So I worked in Põlva and lived there in a rental dwelling. The registered letters came nicely to my resident residence, the parents' home in Valga. At the same time, I built my own home in Sangaste. The child went to a private school in Põlva municipality and before me a catalogue of problems related to the financing of education was opened: different behaviours and perceptions of municipalities, the parent's desire to find a sensible solution from the point of view of his or her life organisation and education, and in the middle of all this, a private school that was caught by several fires in this situation. Unfortunately, the understanding of people's needs by the state and local governments is based on some aspects of our imagination of how people lived a few decades ago. It is possible that this is due to poor cooperation between the state and local authorities. It is also possible that we are accustomed to looking at the course of life in Estonia, where the state and the local government do and are responsible. We forget that citizens and communities often have a clearer idea of what they really need. The state doesn't have to organise everything itself. In theory, a model would also be possible in Estonia, where the educational network would consist mostly of private schools, and the state and local government would only contribute where communities cannot manage themselves. Let's talk about parental choice. § 37 of the Constitution states that parents have a decisive word for choosing the education of children. I regard this right and its implementation as fundamentally correct. The Law amending the Private Schools Act aims to restore the situation prior to 2011 where the municipality has the right to decide whether or not to co-finance the operating costs of private schools. In essence, this means whether freedom of choice is supported or not. The need to choose can be based on the fact that it is easier for a parent to attend a school close to his/her place of employment instead of a school close to his/her home. I'm sure you've heard that we have fewer and fewer mothers at home. The need to choose can be based on the desire to find the most suitable development environment for your child. And there's a lot of time getting to a private school in the absence of other choices. The choice is either it is or it isn't. The choice of one school is not an option. The state alone will never be able to offer all the necessary choices. You don't have to, that's what private initiative and private schools are for. It cannot be that there are rights and responsibilities, but there is no means for parents to realise them. Let's talk about community and community schools. We tend to talk about civil society. We are proud to be able to delegate some of the public services and their provision to civil society organisations and the private sector. We are even talking about social entrepreneurship. Community schools are the most beautiful flowers of civil society. Yet many people face unexpected uncertainty when they see these flowers in the so-called wild. To understand what community schools mean, we need to understand what the community is. The community has long since ceased to mean a specific municipality or territory or entries in the register of residents. The community is made up of people who think similarly, who have common interests and value. The center of the community may be the church congregation, sometimes the workplace, but it is mostly the spiritual and physical space in which people communicate. Most private schools operating in Estonia are precisely community schools where our fellow citizens have created new opportunities for people who cannot actively participate in schooling. These schools are not a small group of rich schools; they are schools of active citizens. Let's talk about educational innovation. A private initiative in education is a value that we should support at every opportunity. Let's face reality! Developmental conversations with parents have become part of the whole education system. They started at the Old Town Educational College, which, indeed, is a municipal school. Small classes and special needs began with parents looking for opportunities for schools to take into account the special needs of their children. Various pedagogical methodologies, such as Waldorf pedagogy, have contributed to a better understanding of creativity and have also brought this experience to many state and municipal schools. Parents who work for their children and actively create novel solutions are always more operational than the state or the self-government system. The country will have a convenient opportunity to pick up the educational innovation created and implement it in the rest of the schools. IRL sees private schools as an integral part of the education system and the stability and survival of these schools is important for society as a whole. We therefore consider it important that this draft be dealt with further, and we intend to make proposals that provide for a specific place and role for private schools. The proposals of the IRL presidency reached Parliament in the form of additional proposals by the Minister for Social Protection on the draft Government. We are open to any debate, and we will do everything in our power to ensure that the problems are the best solution. We will certainly continue to consult both the initiators of private schools and the ministry in order to get the best and sustainable solution. I understand the need and willingness of the Ministry to act, but it is clear, even if we read the explanatory statement on this draft, that we are in a hurry. Life in Estonia is unpleasantly uncertain and the role and duty of the Riigikogu is to reduce this uncertainty. The 2014 Supreme Court judgment contains the opinions of the parties to proceedings on § 222 of the Private Schools Act. The Ministry of Education and Research stated: 'The purpose of the regulation is to treat schools with different forms of ownership equally, reduce tuition fees in private schools, promote more equal opportunities for access to private schools and increase students' freedom of choice. " This is a legitimate goal and an appropriate, necessary and proportionate measure. This bill, however, rejects the recent statements made by the Ministry in court. There seems to be a rush and a desire to find a formal solution to the financing of the limited budget. As the aim, at least for us, is to legally maintain the place and role of private schools in the education system, nothing should get worse for existing schools. We must not create more uncertainty in Estonia in the Riigikogu; we must reduce it instead. I ask that we do our best to deal with this bill. Let's not rush! Together, we try to reach a solution and a model that allows a diverse educational landscape in Estonia, along with the choice of parents, and a school system that does not inhibit the activity of creating educational innovation and in which citizens are not clients but active participants. A pleasant and meaningful debate!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U206	Thank you. Laine Randjärv from the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U207	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, To begin with, as chairman of the Committee on Culture, let me thank the members of the Committee on Culture for their constructive debate so far. I hope that this way of working will continue to work together has been exceptionally pleasant. Speaking on behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to begin by affirming that all children and their well-being are important to our country. We highly appreciate those enterprising communities that have created or are creating private schools that complement the network of state and municipal schools and teach children by the Waldorf pedagogy method or pay attention to Christian education. We respect the right of parents to choose the most suitable education for their children! It is the task of the state to ensure that all children studying in schools in Estonia, whether private, municipal or state schools, receive equal treatment in terms of both the quality of education and the means of education. It is certainly gratifying that the Chancellor of Justice raised the question of the division of responsibility for general education between the various institutions, so that it is clear what lies with the municipal authority and what lies within the administration of the State. But this is not the point of this specific draft. At meetings with representatives of private school parents' organisations, the issue of the sustainability and sustainability of private schools that have already been set up has been discussed as the greatest concern. Nor is the definition of a school network and the participation of local authorities in covering the operating costs of private schools clear. The deadline for continuing to support schools for children with special educational needs has been a specific issue. I believe that when discussing matters relating to children, water should not run between political parties, so that the blanket is pulled off each other as we go on the path of political populism. In society, however, taxpayers' money is limited and the legislator's responsibility is to guide its use sensibly. However, those who are unable to help themselves or need greater attention must be supported by a positive method of discrimination. That is why we believe that we should not set a restrictive deadline in 2020 for state support for schools for children with special educational needs, as stated in the current draft option. This could be an unlimited period of time, considering that the system as a whole is being upgraded. The Reform Party trusts local authorities, which are responsible for the maintenance and maintenance of their school network in accordance with the constitutional task assigned to them. Obviously, local government councils also know more about local circumstances and needs and can make decisions in development plans and long-term strategies that give confidence to active local communities. However, the concept of a school network could be clarified and local authorities could continue to be allowed to express their views on new private schools to be created. Finally, I would like to thank those communities who are able and willing to pay attention to the specificities and special needs of children's development. I hope that all local authorities will be responsible for the organization of their school network and will also work well with private schools that devote their strength and energy, knowledge and resources to the maximum development of each child's abilities for the benefit of their children. The Reform Party supports the further processing and adoption of this draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-08_U208	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the time for our sitting today is over. I apologise to colleagues who did not get the floor today. We'll take it from here tomorrow. Thank you very much. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 2 p.m.
