ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U1	Hello, Riigikogu! Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the law on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from a Member State of the European Union. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Culture Indrek Saar represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Tobacco Act. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the processing of this bill in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Guarantee Fund Act and related amendments to other laws. And fourthly, the draft law amending the 2015 State Budget Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Sven Sester in the proceedings of the above two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U3	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U4	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The faction of the Estonian Centre Party has the honour to hand over the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, the content of which is that persons over 63 years of age who are insured for the same money could also afford dental care, not necessarily prosthetics, for the same money. The history of the matter is that our so-called dental concept has been developed by the theorists in such a way that until the age of 19, the health insurance fund can treat the teeth, but from the age of 63, it is only prosthetics that can be obtained. What do you have to do in the meantime? In the meantime, between the ages of 19 and 63, people must loyally lose all their teeth so that they can have dentures in their mouths. But since people aren't doing this for some reason, they still brush their teeth for their money, the situation is that a 63-year-old person isn't with total prosthetics yet, but has his own dental roots that need treatment. There is no more painful thing than internal dental care, especially for your money, without the support of the health insurance fund. So, 300,000 people, pensioners, are waiting for what happens to this bill. And some of them may also be coalition ambassador voters. If the coalition ambassadors vote or fail this bill, the empty people will no longer choose them. I would ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U5	On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted five drafts which are to be dealt with under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Please, let's do the presence check! There are 88 delegates in the hall, 13 others. Now the agenda for the week, the agenda for the 6th working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu. Honourable Riigikogu, I shall vote on the approval of the weekly agenda. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the adoption of the agenda, no one opposed, with one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U6	Let's get started. First of all, the questions submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Jaak Madison, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaasa, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeiti, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Silla. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U7	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister. On behalf of the EKRE Group, we presented a question to the Prime Minister about Estonia's action plan in the current refugee and immigration crisis in Europe. A brief introduction. Since we've been asking questions, things have changed. More thousands of immigrants have come illegally to the European Union, crossing the external borders of NATO. As a result, we have certainly all had a lot of questions that we would like answers to and which will quickly explain to us what the Estonian agenda is in this crisis. When the European Council held in June, after Midsummer Day, Estonia became up to 180 people and just three months ago, Estonia had the maximum capacity to receive up to 200 persons, the number has now risen to 550. We are amazed that Estonia's capacity will grow in a very short period of time, in a few days, in colossal dimensions. We're wondering where it could grow. That is why we have asked five questions to which we are awaiting answers. Firstly, on the basis of which mandate or mandate have you promised to accept up to 180 additional persons mentioned earlier 373? Secondly, why have the members of your government lied when they promised the opposition, the voters and all the people of Estonia that Estonia will receive up to 180 persons in the next two years, not more? Thirdly, why has Estonia's capacity to receive refugees, immigrants increased by 276.5%, from 200 persons to 553? Fourthly, how much will it cost to increase Estonia's capacity to receive refugees and immigrants from the state budget? And fifthly, with the emphasis on solidarity and European unity, which is no longer so much left, where does the Estonian upper limit run for the reception of refugees and immigrants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U8	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'Which mandate or mandate have you promised to accept up to 180 previous persons in addition to 373 people? " In the negotiations of the European Union, the representatives of the Estonian state have based themselves on the position approved by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Committee on European Union Affairs on 11 September, that Estonia is prepared to accept war refugees in the event of a crisis, given the capacity, population and economic share of the Estonian state in the European Union and the desire of war refugees to relocate to Estonia. The second question: 'Why have the members of your government lied when they promised the opposition, the voters and all the people of Estonia that Estonia will receive up to 180 people in the next two years? " With the agreement of the Ministers of the Interior of the European Union on 20 July, this number did indeed remain in Estonia's hands. However, by August the migratory pressure on certain Member States, such as Italy, Greece, Hungary, had grown exponentially. Therefore, on 9 September, the European Commission presented a proposal to assist the frontier countries through the relocation of persons in need of protection who arrived there. Question 3: 'Why has Estonia's capacity to receive refugees and immigrants increased by 276.5%, or from 200 to 553 people? " Estonia has had to re-evaluate its capabilities in the light of the events described above. And, of course, we can also contribute to our own ability to cope with the situation. Question 4: 'How much does it cost to increase Estonia's capacity to receive refugees and immigrants from the state budget? ' It is quite clear that the exact figures are the smaller the sooner we can integrate refugees and help them to work. But it can be said that the number of people that we are talking about today is feasible for Estonia. The exact figures, as has been said, depend on a lot of factors. Speculation with specific numbers would, in my opinion, be premature. It is also important to know that we have the opportunity to make considerable use of the European Union's Structural Funds, which have been specifically earmarked for this purpose. Question 5: 'Emphasising solidarity and European unity, where does Estonia run the upper limit for the reception of refugees and immigrants? ' The field of international protection depends largely on external factors such as natural disasters, political tensions in third countries, etc. It is therefore not possible to predict exactly how many applications for international protection are presented to Estonia in the so-called normal circumstances and whether and how people in need of protection within the European Union will be reallocated. It is now a fact that the asylum systems of several Member States are under severe pressure and it is very difficult for these countries to cope with this alone. So far, the European Union's principle of crisis measures in the redistribution of persons in need of protection has been such that only a part of those in need of protection is distributed in proportion to the rest of the Member States. A similar system would, of course, apply to Estonia if we were to face exceptional migratory pressures. But let it be said that there is no such migratory pressure now. We hope that this will not happen, for example, because of the events in Ukraine, but it cannot, of course, be ruled out to the end, so it must also be prepared. In the case of resettlement, there have so far been talk of 20 thousand people all over the European Union. This means that the share of Estonia would be twenty people. At the same time, it should be stressed that Estonia's position has already initially been such that it is most important to provide the necessary help in crisis zones on the ground in order to address the root causes of the problem. The topic, which is increasingly on the agenda of European decision-making, is to support the neighbouring countries of war, so that refugees can be dealt with there. We are talking about Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan. The European Union has already decided to provide financial support to these countries. And with Turkey, we decided to open more in-depth negotiations so that the European Union could help them cope with the increased number of refugees. This, of course, will significantly reduce the pressure on Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U10	Questions for the Prime Minister. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Are there places known today where refugees are moving to Estonia? If so, where?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U12	Thank you. Just as with those more than a few thousand people who move to Estonia from third countries every year and move to live here, there are also a smaller size than the number of people who come here as refugees. These people move to apartments in different areas. Of course, it depends primarily on where there are jobs so that they can start working as soon as possible to make a living for themselves and their families. On the other hand, it depends on which areas there are vacant apartments that they can rent. We have said that in the first stage, if people have not yet found their jobs, we can grant them rent support according to exactly the same system as the Estonian people's livelihood scheme. They receive support to the same extent as Estonia's own people, who do not have sufficient income to cope independently. Then, if they have managed to find a job that is, of course, our goal, they can rent their apartments freely on the market in the area where they feel it is right. Just like thousands of people who have come to Estonia from third countries, not as a war refugee, but as a job or a university student.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U13	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U14	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! We spoke before about the mandate on the basis of which Estonia was able to make a promise to receive 553 persons. I would remind you that on 10 September, the European Union Affairs Committee really gave the Minister for the Interior a mandate which clearly stated that we would prefer to assist each other on a voluntary basis. Unfortunately, we know very well that the extraordinary Council went to a vote where four countries opposed the current plan. Nevertheless, it became mandatory for them too, because a qualified majority was taken into account, i.e. the implementation of a mandatory quota system called a distribution key. Of course, the quota has been calculated on the basis of each country's capacity, economic situation and population, but it is still a quota and the same distribution key system will remain in force for all new divisions. Therefore, Estonia should have voted against the quota system so that there would remain a voluntary system because, as we are seeing today, four countries did not retain their voluntary status.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U15	Thank you. I still think it is right that it is preferable for all countries to agree together. However, a situation in which a country is opposed to an agreement cannot be ruled out either. In that case, the vote shall be taken. It would certainly have been better if all the countries had voted in favour, absolutely clear. But if a country is opposed, it does not mean that Estonia should also automatically oppose. All the more so since the agreement that was formulated between the Ministers of the Interior met very precisely both the decision of the Government and the mandate given by ELAK. It was a European solution; it was a necessary solution. It is simply because I find it inappropriate to vote 'no' because someone is still opposed. Estonia's role in Europe must be to contribute to making decisions that are as right as possible from the point of view of both Estonia and the whole of Europe. This is what we can do if we are a partner who is looking for constructive solutions, not a partner who is light-handed, without apparent reason, going to vote against.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U16	In inquiries, a member of the Riigikogu can ask only one question. Now Arno Bridge is taking advantage of this opportunity. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! We have been told that we can choose refugees according to their religious beliefs. But the UN's position is that it doesn't matter and they have to be adopted despite religious conviction. Could you explain a little of this contradiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U18	Thank you. According to the Estonian Constitution, religious discrimination, but also in many other ways, is directly contrary to the fundamental values of Estonia. However, we have made it clear, and it can be followed by specialists, that, first of all, Estonia intends to help those target groups that are most vulnerable. Whether families with children, single women with children or other target groups are the most vulnerable in the particular case can be decided by specific expert groups set up. There is no need for a very detailed guide from either the Prime Minister or Parliament. But this general attitude that, first of all, we help those most in need is competent.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U19	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U20	Thank you to the manager. Good Prime Minister! I'm gonna ask you a question I've asked you before. But I'm gonna ask until I get a sufficient, exhaustive answer for myself. Why does it take so much time to improve the conditions for refugee camps? After all, we constantly state that the situation of refugee camps is very bad, and this is putting new pressure on us as well. Why have we not been able to solve this problem proactively before?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U21	Thank you. First of all, the European Union has already supported not only refugee camps with very large amounts of money, but also people who have moved from their home country, where there is war, such as Syria, neighbouring countries such as Lebanon, Turkey or Jordan. Not all people live there in camps. However, there is a need to support these people, including financial support. In Lebanon alone, there are about 300,000 children without education because the number of people there has grown so fast in a few years. The European Union, as has been said, has supported common instruments. The Member States, by the way, Estonia, have also supported as far as possible. Now, at the penultimate Council, we decided to allocate another billion euros to support refugees, precisely in those areas where they have found the first asylum. The transfer of this billion is as fast as possible. Clearly, the sums are large, but the problem is very serious. There's a lot of legal nuances. It is necessary to ensure that the money is not simply carried away, but that it does indeed reach and effectively reach those in need. Just as with the allocation of every taxpayer's money, there are a lot of control mechanisms when it comes to giving European money and, let's say, steps that have to be taken to be absolutely certain: money goes to the right place. So the important thing is that decisions have been made. At the moment, Turkey's additional support is very seriously decided. In Turkey, too, there are a few million refugees in the order of magnitude, whose improvement in living conditions can significantly reduce migratory pressures on Europe. Negotiations between the European Commission and Turkey are under way on the basis of the mandate given by the Council to the Commission at its last meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U22	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U23	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! God forbid we'll ever get that, but let's look at a big, general and crazy picture. In the European Union, migration policy has gone completely out of hand, let us say so. Our Eastern neighbour claims that through Estonia ISIS fighters come to Russia in transit. Tomorrow Russia will line up its heavy weapons and infantry all along Estonia's control line. What are the activities of Estonia, how do we get out of this? Or is this the beginning of a new world war?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U24	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U25	Thank you. It must be said that speculating on such a relatively absurd design is in any case a slippery path. There is no indication that this is the way, through Estonia to Russia, that there will be some serious migration corridor. On the contrary, citizens of different countries, such as Vietnamese citizens, have come to Estonia through Russia and asked for asylum here. Not all of them have received it, since they have come mostly from safe countries. To imagine some forcefully designed situation, I think, is not practical. And even less practical would be to start drawing some sort of future scenario from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister! I have a purely formal question. Am I right to understand that if refugees are distributed between the countries of the European Union and a person comes to Estonia, for example, that means that he must stay here? We don't have any borders, he can go to Sweden or Germany or anywhere, but if he is detained there, he will definitely be sent back to Estonia. They must be and live where they are sent. Is that true, or is that not true?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U27	Thank you. That is a very relevant question. This agreement essentially means that each country is helping a certain part of the refugee war. Figures that are affordable and ready to be taken on by someone will be set up. But no such movement restrictions that, for example, a family fleeing the war that received a residence permit in Estonia could not go to another European country in a few years' time or faster, or, as they very much hope, that one day it will go back to their home country in the hope that there will be peace there, certainly there will not be a place or a place of establishment. So the direct answer to your question is that this agreement means how many individual states are willing to help, but it certainly does not fall under helping to hold people here by force.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U28	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U29	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! The Slovenian Prime Minister has said that if a resolute common policy in Europe cannot be found to resolve the current immigration crisis, and that means not distributing immigrants on the basis of keys, but keeping them at the borders of the European Union, then the break-up of the European Union will follow. Estonia, under your leadership, is actively contributing to the most dirty human trafficking and the distribution of immigrants. Now we are likely to have another scumbag, about whom Sweden says they will no longer be able to accept them. Do you not think that your government's policy most directly supports the break-up of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U30	Thank you. That certainly is not the case. The European Union has shown that it can also cope with very difficult crises by being united. The unity of the European Union is also of great value to a small country here, at the northern edge of Europe. Remember that time when we were still aspiring to the European Union. We wanted to be part of a common value space. We wanted to be accepted. By the way, even then, there were those who said why we needed them - some people from Eastern Europe are coming from here, taking away our work, coming and living in our country, moving to live for us. There have also been feelings about Estonians, as your leading party is now cultivating in relation to war refugees. Yet, then, in 2004, Europe was able to demonstrate that such emotions could be overcome. Today, we can all say with a very clear conviction that the European Union and Europe as a whole is that Estonia and nine other countries became a member of the European Union in 2004 and two more countries a few years later, only winning. The European Union has become stronger, more comprehensive. We have been able to bring new dynamics to Europe in the best sense. All the fears that those Eastern Europeans, as some of them wanted to say about us at the time, were to stay away were in vain. So at times, consider that some of us have had the kind of outrage that some like to show up right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U31	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U32	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! We have now identified the number of eligible refugees ♪ 553. ♪ We have now identified the number of eligible refugees ♪ ♪ 553. ♪ We have now identified the number of eligible refugees ♪ Have ministries and agencies also carried out any analysis and considered the number of relatives of refugees in the year-and-a-half?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U33	Thank you. First of all, the opportunity to come with us is still limited to the circle of close relatives. It is not the case that the entire family could legally be granted a residence permit if one member of the family settles in a European country. I would be very careful about naming all kinds of numbers, because they are deeply speculative. I would also not rule out a situation where the actual number of refugees coming to Estonia will remain much lower during this period than the total number. Anything's possible. There is also a possible scenario, as your colleagues from the Centre Party asked, Mikhail Stalnukhin more precisely that they will come to Estonia, but for some reason they will decide to move forward in a year or two, or even faster. That, too, is, in principle, possible. Whether these people are in one year, for example 305 or 310, I consider it to be more important whether we can give a clear message as a society. How they are integrated, how we ensure that they actually go to work, and that as many as possible receive Estonian language lessons as soon as possible, so that they can work independently as soon as possible, so that Estonian society gives them the bait, not the fish. These are the most important questions for me. This preparation is currently carried out both by the Ministry of Social Affairs under the leadership of Margus Tsahkna and by the Ministry of Internal Affairs under Hanno Pevkur. I am absolutely sure that the Estonian state can help these people, can find jobs for them. A number of companies have already announced dozens of job vacancies that they are ready to offer immediately. There are also organisations that have provided housing. The people of Estonia have also said that they are ready to support, whether as a support person or as a volunteer. So if we look at the flood of helpers, I'm sure that any talk about mass immigration is a strong exaggeration and, in fact, absolutely unnecessary. We show that Estonia is a dignified state and a dignified society, and we are able to cope successfully with such relatively modest crises.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U34	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U35	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! According to the International Protection for Foreigners Act, the cost of renting a refugee's family can be calculated at a rate of up to 0.3 per square metre. As the limit of living now rises, as I understand it, we can count on the refugee family for about EUR 39 per square metre and the apartment of a family of four for about EUR 2500. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U36	I have to be honest with you that I have not done such things myself, but to my knowledge, the possibilities of refugees are the same as those of the people of Estonia. The amount you mentioned clearly seems overexploited. After all, we have existing standards for all those who already receive income support from the Estonian state. The income limit is 90 euros per family member. The truth is that we have agreed, and the Riigikogu has written the law that the subsistence limit will rise from 90 euros to 130 euros. This applies to all people in Estonia who receive income support. As a result, rent rates will increase. But I daresay it will reach such high altitudes. Rather, life has shown that income support can be used to rent housing needed for a life of distress, but nothing luxurious. Such rates have historically been the case. Now it really is rising considerably, but I doubt that something very luxurious can be rented for this in the future. I am certainly prepared to go through the process and inform you in writing about the amount I receive for a family of four, as well as about all households and war refugees who can survive in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U37	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U38	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! Today, refugees are simply being distributed on a territorial basis, i.e. on a quota basis, so much here and so much there. Why can't they be distributed functionally as a person buys clothes from one store, food from another, and medicine from another? For example, Estonia, which has always been introduced as an innovative, developing and technological state, could make training centres for refugees. So they are brought here, they are passing through the sauna, they are given injections of protection, they are taught the foundations of democracy and European attitudes, perhaps some of the languages spoken in Europe. They get this training, sealed paper, and they keep going. The training would receive money from Europe, the people of Estonia would receive work and bread, and so we would be able to forgive some of our sins both from Allah and from God. Do you think it would be possible to present such an idea in the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U39	Thank you. Your starting point is very innovative and somewhat different from what the European Heads of Government have come to, but if you consider it possible and necessary to introduce it, then I certainly cannot prohibit you. So, as far as possible parliamentary democracy is concerned, you will also have ways to present your views on how to solve the problem in a very innovative way.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U40	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U41	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! The arrival of refugees raises quite a number of technical questions when it comes to, for example, how our Ministry of Internal Affairs or interpreters are prepared, etc. But I am interested in the question of financial support. Much is said that one person comes from the European Union and from a country of EUR 6000 to EUR 10000. Maybe it's the big money. This does not mean that those who accept people into their homes will receive the money. After all, in this large amount of €6,000 10,000, local authorities also have a small share, who agreed that they would accept refugees. My question is this: how long will the local authorities who have agreed to take refugees into their territory receive the support of a country or of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U42	Thank you. First of all, I repeat, our goal is for all people coming to Estonia to have the opportunity to go to work, to have the opportunity to support their own family, to pay their own rent, etc. It is certainly not our goal that people come to Estonia, whether they come here with a visa or for war, would only live on social benefits. That can't be a purpose in society. We're trying to help them with a fishing rod, not just with a fish. The costs we are talking about are primarily designed to enable people to settle in society and pay for the service of the sponsor. It is clear that these people are from a different society, and they are not fully aware of how to carry out every possible day-to-day operation here in Estonia. It is natural for supporters to help them. We want to help them with language training, with money, as well as finding a new place to live. If it is necessary to find a first place in a municipality, for example, which is ready to meet the state and has to be repaired to some extent, then in principle it is also conceivable. That's what the Social Ministry's officials are doing, who'll draw up a detailed plan. We now know that we have quite a lot of freedom to use precisely the sums coming from Europe. In addition, we have the European Union's money not only for refugees, but for people living in Estonia at all, who, as I said, are many more than war refugees to integrate all of them, to teach them the language, to provide basic services. The amount of money transferred to one person's housing costs or self-government depends on specific needs. Supporters have quite a lot of freedom to make decisions. It is clear that we do not have any luxurious support for municipalities or refugees. But emergency living conditions can guarantee these few hundred people, as long as they are willing to work and earn their wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U43	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U44	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! There are certainly limits to the financial capacity for receiving refugees, and it is clear that refugees are burdening Member States' budgets. I have read somewhere that there is a reflection in the European Union on whether or not to impose another tax on VAT or income tax, which would alleviate the budgetary situation. Are you familiar with this subject, can you comment? Has this discussion been anywhere, or is it just some kind of talk?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U45	Thank you. I assure you that there is no need in Estonia to raise VAT or income tax separately from this issue. And the order of magnitude that we need in order to help people who are for war is much smaller. We don't raise taxes, quite the opposite. We are also planning to increase the tax-free minimum in the coming years, so instead to alleviate the tax burden on people, and also to reduce social tax. So I don't know where the stories you're referring to have been spoken, but Estonia doesn't have any such need. Estonia is still well with public finances, and we will come to a nice end. For the last few years, the budget has even been in surplus, and the budget for next year, which has been presented to you, will continue to have a conservative and very sound fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U46	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U47	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! If you really consider what is happening to be a modest crisis, as you said, I really am not surprised that you are accusing opponents of hate speech instead of concrete answers. I wonder, however, how you consistently assert that refugees are treated equally with the people of Estonia. However, there is nothing equal about paying rent, paying for repairs, paying for furniture, etc., which has already been sounded today. Our people cannot be treated like this, all the more so as income for refugees is not counted as income and therefore they do not lose unemployment benefits or anything like our people. Why don't you just talk like it is?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U48	Thank you. I'm going to clarify my previous position. In principle, of course, it is right to say that there is a huge crisis across Europe. It has been called the biggest migration crisis since World War II, and for good reason. At the same time, the role that Estonia is expected to play in resolving this crisis is still quite modest in view of the extent of the crisis and is feasible for Estonia. Surely our role is one that does not require hundreds of thousands of publications that frighten the whole of society, one can be sure of that. It is not so big that it should ask the same questions ten times, twenty times or fifty times in a row. Although, of course, what you are asking questions about is your choice. If I have to, I'll answer you a hundred times, no matter what you think is right. But in my opinion, the aziotage around this subject is clearly disproportionate to the actual size of the subject when we think soberly. As regards equal treatment with the people of Estonia, from both the people of Estonia and people coming to Estonia who need help and who we have decided to help, we expect them to cope independently. We are ready to help them with income support, and the part of the subsistence system is indeed rent. Very many people in Estonia are true, less and less, because the well-being of Estonian people has improved year after year, but they still receive income support. They will also be paid rent and utilities within a certain limit, on the basis of a subsistence scheme, which we will raise by EUR 40 from next year. It's exactly the same with war refugees. We can help them too as long as they get on their feet and go to work. There are some relatively small things where we really distinguish between practical reasons. We offer them language training and I think it is in the interest of the whole society that those who come to Estonia as either a war refugee, a work visa or a university learn the Estonian language. I do not think that we are actually sorry as a society if we have some additional costs, because we have to hire some people to teach them the language. Formally, this is an additional cost compared to what we offer as services to Estonian citizens, but I believe that this is justified in any case. The same is true of support services. Hiring a support person is something that directly helps people to integrate more quickly into society, which is in the interests of society as a whole. Formally speaking, this is indeed an additional service, because Estonia's own people, Estonian citizens, we do not offer a support service for integrating into Estonian society. They do not need it, it is a service for a different target group. As you can see, additional services and all that we offer are in the interests of society as a whole and only in the service of ensuring that people quickly become part of Estonian society so that they learn the Estonian language, they can cope with everyday things and find a job, so that the state does not have to pay social benefits for them at length. In any case, I believe that you understand that these are services that are worth offering to people coming from other countries. I repeat, this is not only about war refugees, but since this period of European money we also have considerable opportunities for integrating students or foreigners coming to work in Estonia. We can offer support person service, language training, etc. I think it is very positive when people who come to live in Estonia learn the language and get a share of what is happening in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U49	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U50	Honourable Chair of the Riigikogu and ladies and gentlemen. Good Prime Minister! Thank you for your answers, including many where we did not get an answer. I'll get right to it. Let's talk about money. As a rule, if you want to have a fight with a person, you talk about three things: religion, politics, or money. And speaking of money, we're gonna have a fight. The Prime Minister claimed that he did not want to speculate on the sums of money allocated to the reception of immigrants. I call them immigrants precisely because we do not know where these people come from, why they come from, what their background is. They are therefore illegal immigrants who illegally cross the external borders of the European Union and Schengen. The Minister of Finance also came here to answer questions about the state budget and he gave us more specific answers than you did. According to him, 3.22 million euros have now been allocated from the state budget, which is divided between ministries. More specifically, the Ministry of the Interior receives 2.6 million euros, the Ministry of Education and Research 360000 euros and the Ministry of Social Affairs 260000 euros. However, this EUR 3.22 million is only from the state budget. Moreover, according to the Minister of Finance, EUR 3.9 million has been placed under the reserve fund of the Government of the Republic to cover future expenditure. It is still unassessed where it may take, but this amount has been allocated. The total amount came to EUR 7.04 million. Therefore, the Government of the Republic has more specific figures in place and I do not understand why the Prime Minister will avoid specific answers to such questions if he actually has them. The European Union has emphasised that for every person to come, a bounty of EUR 6000 to EUR 10000 will be involved. So far, it has not been discussed in detail in this large hall how it will be divided into EUR 6000 to EUR 10000. However, there is almost a double difference. For what kind of person do we get EUR 6,000, and for which person up to EUR 10,000? In the Committee on Finance, the Minister has already, in particular, answered the question of the distribution of money by our group chairman, Martin Helme. It was said very clearly that EUR 6 000 will be received for those who are re-distributed within the European Union and EUR 10000 for those who are brought from outside the European Union, i.e. refugee camps from Jordan, Libya or elsewhere. This has not been publicly spoken here. I don't know why. They're not speculation, they're facts. Speaking of money, when we say that this is a marginal crisis, which is very easy to solve, and everyone in the European Union is happy in the chorus that we are solidarity and distribute immigrants, the figures are now such that in Finland, it takes EUR 1 million a day to support, receive and accommodate immigrants. So the sums are colossal. Sooner or later, the countries of the European Union will be forced to go after the taxes so that the budget will come to an end, it is simply inevitable. I also took notes on the Prime Minister's responses to the families. The question of persons who may come to Estonia afterwards through the family reunification programme was called speculation, and that is what they have the opportunity and even a perfectly legal right that everyone would use. And frankly, I do not understand that if there is a very clear question to be asked about the question, it is simply left unanswered and it is said that it is speculation. This is not an exhaustive answer. I do not think that the Prime Minister should have such an attitude that he does not answer a direct question about which all ministries should have risk assessments made. While Europe's ordinary family consists of three, four or five people - mother, father and children - it is known that in the region where immigrants come from, the family is not a four-member family, but is often larger. However, if we even base our cultural space and our practices, the family reunification programme should bring another 1500-2000 people to Estonia per 553 persons. It's calculated according to our cultural space. And it is not speculation, it is a very true number that we should be relying on. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U51	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U52	Therefore, once again, it can be said that many years ago, since the European Parliament elections, we repeatedly warned the debates that the wave of immigration would reach Estonia, that we could not avoid it and that we would come into contact with it anyway. It was laughed out and said that no one wants to come to Estonia; the Estonian government does not accept anyone. We were talking about thousands of people. And right now, when we figure out 553 times 4, it's over 2,000 people. So, thousands of people. The views of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, which we have been saying for years, have again proved true. So there's nothing to speculate about, it's just numbers. I'll take a few more points quickly. The Prime Minister stressed that the European Union has always dealt with all crises. However, a few minutes later, he made it very clear that such a crisis was the first time since World War II. And he's right about that. For the first time, we see that the European Union cannot cope with such crises. Just 28 countries with national interests are unable to cope. They have no obligation whatsoever to submit to pressure from the European Commission and to do what someone thinks is solidarityable and tolerant. They don't have to, and they can't. As we can see, many countries with straight backs do not do so. This is also evidenced by yesterday's outcome in the Polish parliamentary elections, where the Conservatives won overwhelmingly and very powerfully. This shows a lot in our region where the direction is developing. Consequently, we assume that the Government of the Republic should also be prepared that one day the crisis has reached a point where the European Union can no longer be held together, it will simply blow up. So what do we do? Do you have a crisis plan? What is our agenda? How can border control be restored? How can we end the state budget when there are no more European Commission officials laying eggs? There is still a minute left, so we can also mention frightening publications in hundreds of thousands. If any publications have frightened you, we are very sorry! We have not wanted to scare the Prime Minister, but simply to warn of the trend that Europe is experiencing. If we look at opinion polls, 75-80% of people are also terrified. I would also be terrified as a common pick if I were to listen to the Prime Minister's answers, that everything is speculation for him, a small crisis, and everyone is solidarity. When I look at what is happening in Hungary, Finland, Sweden, it is very frightening. It is frightening, not our publications, where we point to the facts that have proved to be true throughout Europe. Finally, I will talk about answering questions. You mentioned that the opposition, more specifically the Conservative People's Party, is constantly asking questions, especially about immigration. That is what we will do, and we will continue to do, until we have received concrete answers about the amount of the budget, the refugee policy, the immigration policy and how to solve it. As long as there is still talk in the demagogic style, that everything is just speculation, we are asking questions, we will continue to do so and you will also answer us. Thank you, and have a nice day at work.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U53	Would the Prime Minister like to make a speech at the end of this item? No, I don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U54	The next question is presented by Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Andres Herkel, Ain Lutsepp, Jüri Adams, Artur Talvik and Monika Haukanõm. On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U55	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good people's representatives! Dear Minister, I would spend half a minute thanking the Minister for the very beautiful support he gave to the promotion of Estonian education and science, which he expressed in South Korea by signing the OECD Joint Declaration of Science Ministers. Thank you very much, and I hope that the whole government will be behind you in the budget negotiations. Now to the question. Our inquiry, which has been submitted by seven members of the Free Party Group, concerns a subject that is substantive and which we have all been exposed to, these are support specialists and the organisation of the teaching of pupils with special educational needs in schools. Estonian education is based on the conceptual basis that we have inclusive education. It's nice and nice, but as we all know, there are more and more children who are a little impatient and have special educational needs. It can also be the case with highly gifted children. The Estonian state has tried to organise this work and to support it in every way. As of 1 September 2014, the county-based Rajaidja centres are working with support specialists who can be ordered by local government schools to help them and who can draw up special support plans for children with special needs to study. However, this work organisation is problematic in many ways. In schools, the law does not allow teaching co-ordinator positions. That is the question of how the excellent plans drawn up at the Pathfinder Centre will be implemented in real school life. Do they apply in such a way that it is easier for a teacher to deal with other children and that a child who needs special treatment can really do so? That is why we have put seven questions to the Minister, and these questions are all based on the sincere desire that what is provided for in § 37 of our Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act be implemented in school life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U56	Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Education and Science, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U57	Mr. Chairman! Honourable heirs and other members of the Riigikogu! Well, I guess I'll just have to say thank you somehow. I am very grateful for these thanks and thank you also for your meaningful questioning. Not all enquiries are as meaningful and not all questions are free of conflict between themselves. But I can't complain this time. First of all, so much for the introduction that I don't think the superpower is part of this Pathfinder concept, at least I don't know it's to be interpreted that way. However, I can say that I am trying to answer questions from a very liberal perspective of the Free Party concerning the autonomy of the municipality and cooperation between the municipality and the state. That is what you are, I believe, very liberally, but I will give some answers perhaps more critical. The first question: 'How effective has it been to bring together highly qualified support professionals beyond real school life in county centres? Are there overwhelming cooperation between the specialists of the Rajafinder centres and schools on the ground? ' First of all, I must point out that providing support services in legal terms has always been designed as a function of the municipality. They make the choice that support services are needed, and schools then largely organise. In the meantime, there was a certain mess that was cleared up during the days of Minister of Education Aaviksoo. However, support specialists' money cannot come from the teachers' payroll. However, in general terms, this has been a function of the municipalities to a large extent, and the public offer is rather due to the fact that, on the one hand, we face transitional difficulties. Support services are a little exclusive, precisely in the sense that the students who need them are very different. In addition, it is difficult to find these specialists and to provide them with a full load. In this sense, central organisation and cooperation are more realistic. However, since as of 1 September 2014 this service is provided at two different levels in the county Rajastenja centres, I will also reply separately. First, schools can order the services of a private pedagogy, logopaedic and psychologist at the so-called school level, i.e. the first level, from the centres. These specialists work in schools or kindergartens and deal directly with the child, also supporting teachers in their work. The 33 schools ordered this service from the centres during the previous and this academic year, and this service is billed by law. It is a cost-based remuneration in the sense that the cost price is different each time, but the price is determined on the basis of the average cost price. What's in it? 79.5% of this is paid together with taxes. It is certain that professionals will be better burdened in this way if they were employed in municipalities or schools. So it can be said that it is economical. And to my surprise, this service is cheaper for small municipalities. As a result of the administrative-territorial reform, this distinction should disappear in terms of the idea, I think. At the same time, given the situation of small rural municipalities, this is probably a reasonable response again. And then there's the specialist's second-level counseling. This is needed when a child has behavioural and learning problems that can no longer be dealt with at school and at home. This is provided in cases where there are no support specialists at school and where intervention measures are required for some children based on a recommendation from the Advisory Committee. Specialists providing second-level counselling are employed in 16 centres, including 20 logo beets, 22 private pedagogues, 26 psychologists, 17 social pedagogues and 60 career specialists. These people identify the nature of the problems and the need for an individual approach and advise accordingly. But they also give advice to parents and educational institutions on what to do. In the previous academic year, there were 9651 such cases, and an estimated third of the visits took place in schools and kindergartens. Why so little? In most cases, parents prefer a more private and neutral area of the Pathfinder Centre. This service has been provided since 2008 and continues to be free of charge. The second question: 'How many schools (in percentage) prefers to use the services provided by the Pathfinder? ' The first-level service is ordered by 33 schools from the centre, which is 16% of schools in small municipalities for whom the first-level service is mainly intended. Large settlements do better on their own, but of course it should be taken into account that these specialists are few and that burdening them is necessary. 7.6% of the total number of municipal schools use this service. The second level of service has been provided in the counties to almost all educational establishments. 70% of schools and kindergartens have been reached in Tallinn; priority has been given to those institutions where there is no specialist on the ground. It has to be said that in schools of Tallinn's primary school level, only 19 schools have special pedagogies, 52 psychology, 29% of schools have logos and 43% of schools have social pedagogues. This already suggests that it is highly required services and these specialists are not easy to find, much less in small municipalities. A central offer is reasonable. Next, the third question: 'How is the implementation of individual curricula and behavioural support schemes in schools drawn up in the Pathfinder centres ensured? How their performance checks work in a situation where it is the responsibility of the state to exercise substantive supervision, while the task of functional supervision is the task of the municipality and the specialists of the Rajaidija centre do not control the activities of the schools. " Support for students is actually part of the day-to-day process of school life. The individual curriculum and behavioural support plan shall be drawn up at school or kindergarten in cooperation with the parent. Specialists at the Pathfinder Centre direct and supervise their preparation. In each case, the case manager shall be appointed, whose duties shall include the control of the implementation of the proposed action. The organisation of education for children with special educational needs has been a priority for national supervision. Question 4: "How can we talk about the availability of specialist services in schools on the ground, especially in rural areas, where the cost of leaving the centre is 50 euros per month? ' That fixed cost doesn't really exist. An average cost has been calculated, which applies in the same way to all schools and regions. Question 5: 'According to the law, the headmaster of the school must appoint a person whose task is to organise the cooperation necessary to support the learning and development of pupils with special educational needs between support specialists, instructors and teachers of talented students //---/. Currently, this is an additional task performed by the school's head of study or by a school's support specialist, either for a small extra fee or free of charge. What is the plan of the Ministry of Education and Research to solve the problem? ' This is not an additional task. Support for the development of all students is the task of the entire school and the principles of support must be specified in the curriculum. The student is surrounded by a support network inside and outside the school. It is important that someone at school level is responsible for coordinating cooperation between the various actors. The child's need for support is an integral part of the school organisation and does not impose any additional obligations on the school. The decision on the responsibilities and responsibilities of people working at school in organising education for HEV children is made by the head of school. He/she shall appoint a coordinator for the education of HEV children, also ensuring that the tasks related to these activities are performed within the limits of paid working time. It is important that all teachers, support professionals, students and parents working at school have a clear knowledge of who to turn to when problems arise. Question 6: 'If the HEV coordinator is one of the system links between support services at Level I and Level II (i.e. Rajafinder specialists and school teacher), has the possibility been considered of making the HEV coordinator's position nationally remunerated and finding qualified staff who actually do this work in schools, i.e. are really teacher tutors, senior advisors, paper editors, etc.? ' If I understand the question correctly, this position is meant at school or municipal level. That's not what we're considering. Rather, we are likely to propose that self-governings have greater autonomy in the use of their education support. We certainly hold as a priority the components of teachers' salaries. All other components and their meaning are actually highly devalued and are still devalued. There is no point in writing off separate educational resources and investment costs when we offer free e.g. electronic curriculum and investment programs. Leaving the self-governings the opportunity to maneuver between different cost items is very reasonable. Why should they not be able to spend support services as necessary? The role, responsibilities, responsibility and workload of the coordinator can be very different, so there is again a question of burden-sharing. In this sense, such a position is not nationally ideally implemented. Question 7: "Why are the corresponding positions of HEV coordinators not foreseen in pre-school childcare facilities, where it is extremely important to notice the different needs, strengths and weaknesses of each child? ' Here I stress that we are talking about local governments. Pre-school childcare facilities are very clearly a municipality's area of administration, so this is the case in all countries. There can be no other way. However, we cannot prescribe national posts in this way, given the passion of this service, too, in the sense that the size of these institutions is very different. Each child institution must be based on the national curriculum of the pre-school institution, and no official on a separate national salary is needed there. The kindergarten curriculum must state how they are organised to support children with special needs. We also have a guide on this subject entitled 'Guide to evaluating and supporting children's development in pre-school institutions'.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U58	Time's up. If there was something left unsaid, maybe the inquisitors will help the minister finish his story. Now the questions. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U59	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I ask briefly: how much is the average hourly rate currently paid by support specialists in schools, i.e. all special needs teachers and other supporters working for children with special needs? And can you also say how you appreciate the amount of this salary in the light of the fact that refugees' supporters will be earning ten euros an hour? I guess our kids' sponsors make cents compared to that, huh?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U60	And if you think about how much a poor member of the Riigikogu earns compared to refugees, this is particularly dramatic. But in general, the cost of the first-level service is 27.9 euros per astronomical hour, 79.5% of which is salary. That kind of thing. I did not really find the issue of refugees in question, but there are more and more of them everywhere, of course. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U61	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I apologise in advance if my question looks too far into the future, but I suppose we can think a little further than in a four-year perspective. The tracker is, of course, a major step forward in comparison with the previous system of annual contracts, but both the tracker and the earlier career guidance and learning guidance systems have remained supported by the European Social Fund. My question is what the Ministry thinks will happen after 2020. Will this task fall on the local authorities? I understand the Minister is smiling because this time is so far away that he is no longer the minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U63	However, what happens then: will this task go to local authorities, hope for European money, or will the state take over?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U64	Thank you. Exit strategies are certainly a very critical issue for euro-financing. I have to be careful when I answer about the trackfinder centers. I have not studied it precisely, and I have not looked at what has been the promises or attitudes made by previous ministers, whether or not something has been promised to local governments. But, by its very nature, it is still such an area that it would not hurt to develop these centres in cooperation with the municipalities. At the same time, national coordination is also understandable for this kind of work. By 2020, the structure of our municipalities will hopefully be so much more efficient that the financing of this service will also be on new bases. At the moment, it is not necessarily necessary to take firm positions as to how all this needs to be organised in the future. But yes, exit strategy is an important issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U65	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U66	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U67	Thank you, Honourable President-in-Office. Good minister! No matter how good a psychologist or social pedagogy you are, you can't handle more than four, five or six months a day, you'll be confused by the evening with a complicated child, be they geniuses or educational needs in the usual sense. How do you intend to achieve the desired positive shift when a psychologist or a social pedagogue diagnoses or shapes your attitude towards a child on the basis of a parent's or teacher's descriptions? He can't get to know the child during this time, he reads the descriptions of a class manager, a parent, or someone else, and then tells the child that you have to eat two Xanax tablets a day or swallow some other stuff. That's how we're gonna get more drug addicts again. How do you comment on this model?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U68	Thank you. The end was now dramatic, and the drug addicts are already coming. But right now, here's what I'm saying, you're making me curious. I have not had any practical experience with this service, I have not reached any of the Pathfinder Centres. You gave me a good idea to think about all this. People who have worked at school know this situation on the basis of practice, and I have to catch up with them. Whether six children a day are right or something else, it's difficult for me to answer. I guess he is. I know a couple of problems with these Pathfinder centers: here and there the ordering of the service is uneven and the manning of these places is uneven. It's not easy, it's very difficult to find specialists. In the medical system, there are long queues for the reception of logo beets and there is no reason to hope that these people will exist in schools and the queues will be short.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U69	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U70	Good manager! Good minister! I'm going to do the logo beets: there's 16 logo beets at the trackfinder centers, one per county in the middle. I shall first ask whether this is a sufficient number and please specify whether this number is due to demand or to supply. In Ida-Viru County there are four logo beets, in Harju County there are only three, in Hiiumaa and in Saaremaa there are both one. Does any region need more logos or does the number of logos come from the offer?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U71	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U72	Thank you. I guess I've already suggested that the offer is bad. Logopeds are very much required and the queues are long, it is not easy to find people at the Pathfinder centers. In itself, we do not currently have six centres, but 20. On average, the centre has 1.25 logo beets, but this is hardly a consolation now. Yeah, there aren't enough specialists. You asked if the offer was small because there were no specialists. In the case of high demand, we may be able to move our resources more into this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your answers. You yourself have just said that such support specialists are then social pedagogues, logopaedics, or psychologists just aren't. After all, our higher education schools train them. So where do these trained support professionals go to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U74	Thank you. I should know everything, of course, but there are things I still don't know. Even if it's just education, there's a lot of these things. I can't tell you where they're going. I was even anxious to name them once, where we have the biggest loss, but no, I'm not gonna speculate. I don't know exactly, I have to check it out. Logo-peeds are probably not prepared as much as they need to. I can tell you that. But why do you need so many? Do they tend to be somewhere else? I'm sure they tend to be in the private sector. Parents are, of course, unhappy when they learn of the length of the queue to the logo beet in the national system. To their comfort, a link called 'Eralogopetes' or something has been distributed. There'll be faster help. But undoubtedly, schools or children are not the'most powerful' clients for these professionals. And private workers make their choice a little more relaxed than maybe schools need.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U75	Every member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask a question in the round of questions. Monika Haukanõm is now taking advantage of this opportunity. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In recent years, one of the major priorities of the government has been the reform of working capacity. Its output is also that children with special educational needs, including children with disabilities, receive the best possible education. This is known to be particularly difficult for children with severe or deep disabilities. We take even blind or deaf children who can complete secondary education in Tartu or Tallinn. How does the new system help such a child to learn near his home so that he does not have to be away from his family to receive education? It is clear, of course, that it is cheaper for the country to focus on prevention by providing them with a good education than to deal with the consequences afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U77	Thank you. A large part of this area is in the hands of the Minister of Social Affairs. I have raised the same issue in the cabinet, but rather in budgetary disputes. There is still a question of how to coordinate the use of this reform and the resources of the unemployment fund, what duplications we have to fear and where a better service can be provided for the same money in terms of results. I don't have any prepared recipes, and I wouldn't be risking too much of this subject to work capacity reform. But there's definitely a substantive connection, so I'm gonna try to get smarter.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U78	Thank you, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Please, on behalf of Krista Aru's heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U79	Mr. Chairman! Thank you, Minister. Good people's representatives! Teacher's work is so important that this work is never paid in itself. We can raise this salary and talk a lot about it, but we need to find other motivations to appreciate the teacher's work, including those that would facilitate the teacher's work a little bit. One possible solution is certainly the full implementation of support specialists as teachers' assistants. Not only for students who are impatienced and are not merely on the subject of teaching, but also for children who need more serious help. The principle of inclusive education in Estonia is very right. I do not think it is important that the principle of inclusive education has come to us from elsewhere in Europe. Inclusive education as such is also suitable for Estonia's small society, because every person is of value to us. If we are thinking here of using these support specialists, we should in any case consider that, first of all, these specialists are really few. They'll be trained somewhere, but then they'll disappear somewhere. Here the state should be with the local government not only such a supervisor and demander and a new rule-setter. Together with the local government as a general school manager, we should arrive at the fact that we are approaching the problem precisely from the point of view of how better it would be for the student and how we can contribute even slightly to valuing the teacher's work. We cannot make decisions so that we make a right hand decision and the left hand does not know what the right hand does. After all, it is not just a question of finances; the question is more general, it concerns the capacity of the entire education system, including valuing the work of the teacher, raising the reputation of the teacher and thus the value of the Estonian education system. So the concentration of support specialists in the Pathfinder centres is one step, but the municipalities should not be left alone. Coordination of teaching at school, including the use of psychologist, logopaedic and specialist pedagogy, must be properly and effectively resolved. It is the duty of the state to ensure this if the state requires its subjects and wants to provide their children with a good, promising education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U80	There are no further requests to speak. The Minister doesn't want to say anything either. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U81	The following inquiry has been submitted by Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Lauri Laas, Dmitri Dmitriev, Tarmo Tamm, Jaanus Karilaid, Priit Toobal, Aadu Must, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korb, Peeter Ernits, Toomas Vitsut, Mailis Reps, Kadri Simson and Enn Eesmaa, who will also speak on behalf of the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U82	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, According to the Presidency programme approved by the European Union, Estonia will become the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2018. This is a responsibility of six months, which the government takes to organise the work of the Council of the European Union, giving it the opportunity to guide the policies of the European Union. Estonia has set an important goal in the period from January to June 2018 to manage the institution with expertise, ensuring effective legislation and shaping consensus, and fulfilling its duty to be an honest mediator. As the Presidency does not create new systems or structures, but uses a well-established system of coordination of European Union affairs, organisation of work, practice and expertise in the field of ministries, all of this requires very good preparation for the smooth operation of the whole process. In this regard, we have the following questions. Firstly, 'One of the most important elements of the preparations for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union is the human resources strategy. The staff involved in the Presidency must be prepared in good time. How do you see that the preparation of staff so far for the Presidency has gone? " Second,'according to older practice, the experience of the presidencies confirms that the success of the Presidency requires staff with a higher level of motivation. Since a large proportion of the Presidency staff are current staff, how have the senior executives made the Presidency attractive to existing staff when it is clear that, in addition to the current tasks, their workload will increase even further during training? ' Third: 'The experience of the other presidencies shows that the Estonian state has an estimated 150-200 events, which, according to experience, are visited by 20000-30000 people. One important condition for the successful conduct of events is the availability of suitable premises. For example, summits or conferences of Heads of State or Government must have a space of at least 800 m2. What halls does Estonia intend to use to organise events related to the Presidency? ' Fourthly: 'The Presidency is a unique opportunity for Estonia to internationally introduce its country, culture and fundamental values, thereby increasing Estonia's visibility in various fields. What benefits will it bring to other regions and cities of Estonia than the capital? Do other regions of Estonia also benefit from the fact that Estonia is the Presidency of the European Union and how? " Fifth: 'On the basis of the action plan for the presidency, 2015-2018 will be drawn up. The central budget for the year 2010 will be set up. Will the investments carried out under the Presidency be financed from European Union funds or from the pockets of the Estonian taxpayer? ' That is what the Estonian taxpayer always cares about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U83	Foreign Minister Marina Kaljurand responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U84	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Thanks for the questions. I'm gonna start answering them right now. To begin with, I say so much that not all these questions are purely in the field of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is why we consulted before answering and agreed the answers with the State Chancellery. The first question: 'One of the most important elements of the preparations for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union is the human resources strategy. The staff involved in the Presidency must be prepared in good time. How do you see that so far the preparation of staff for the Presidency has gone? ' As far as the assessment is concerned, I believe that the staff preparation has gone according to schedule. We are talking about about a thousand people involved in the Estonian Presidency in 2018. Most of them are existing officials, including those of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who will be given additional duties in connection with the Presidency. In order to find the right people, the central coordination unit preparing the Presidency is the European Union Secretariat, which works for the State Chancellery, and in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, officials with the potential of the head of the working group have gathered a so-called "tray" or human thief. These include officials working in the institutions of the European Union who are ready to contribute to the Presidency. All the candidates in the magazine pass through a tight sieve. For example, they will also be tested to check their knowledge of English. The total volume of the Salve is around 500 people, which is based on the number of working groups chaired by the EU Presidency. In total, we are responsible for approximately 200 working groups. In fact, it means one head and one vice-chair to each working group, in addition to the so-called margin for cases where, as the Presidency approaches, new working groups or other unforeseen changes should arise. People can change jobs, for example. The composition of the Salve will be confirmed in November. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for 56 working groups and 33 of them need to play the Presidency role. In other cases, the European Commission will assume the Presidency's role. All those involved in the Presidency will receive the training they need to acquire professional knowledge over the next few years, as well as for the rapid, effective, competent management of the work of the working group. I'm sorry I have this candy in my mouth that takes away coughing. This is not disrespect for you. The second question: 'The experience of the presidencies confirms that the success of the Presidency requires staff with a higher level of motivation. Since a large proportion of the Presidency staff are current staff, how have the senior executives made the Presidency attractive to existing staff when it is clear that, in addition to the current tasks, their workload will increase even further during training? 'As far as the State Department officials are concerned, I can tell you that motivation is actually very high. You don't get a lot of fronts. From a professional point of view, this is a major challenge, including for diplomats. So, at least with regard to the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are already seeing a great deal of motivation. I think the same can be said of other ministries. The motivation is also a prior training program where people are prepared to feel confident that they know what is expected of them. I'm sure it'll help. The plan is also to compensate for the additional work that will be carried out as early as 2017. Yes, our Presidency is six months in the first half of 2018. But in fact, the presidencies take place as triplets, in troikas, so we are starting to take over these issues much earlier. Let's go to meetings, we'll get closer to these issues. So this period lasts longer than six months purely. Question 3: 'In the light of the experience of the other presidencies, it is estimated that the Estonian state will organise 150-200 events, which, according to experience, will be visited by between 20000 and 30000 people. One important condition for the successful conduct of events is the availability of suitable premises. For example, summits or conferences of Heads of State or Government must have a space of at least 800 m2. What halls does Estonia intend to use to organise events related to the Presidency? ' Yes, indeed, depending on the level of events, we need different rooms to hold the Presidency. There is currently no multipurpose conference centre in Tallinn where all Presidency events can be hosted, and therefore the necessary premises must be found through public procurement. As far as the summit is concerned, the organisation of the summit is not compulsory. So there's more to discuss. With the current state of affairs, we do not see the need to organise it in Estonia; it can also be done in Brussels. Procurement starts when the initial Presidency calendar has been drawn up, so major and important events need to be planned in 2016, while the rest will remain planned in 2017. Question 4: 'The Presidency is a unique opportunity for Estonia to present its country, culture and fundamental values internationally, thereby increasing Estonia's visibility in various areas. What benefits will it bring to other regions and cities of Estonia than the capital? Do other regions of Estonia also benefit from the fact that Estonia is the Presidency of the European Union and how? ' Inevitably, the biggest difficulty of events and meetings falls to Tallinn. Yes, there is an opportunity to take visitors beyond Tallinn, but now that I have visited Luxembourg a few times as Minister of Foreign Affairs, I have experienced that even coming to Tallinn in some cases is quite difficult. It is clear that we must also take into account that if we show our guests other Estonia, they must reach these areas within a reasonable period of time. Since some 20000 or 30000 foreign visitors come to Estonia for the first time, we will, of course, do everything to ensure that it is not their last visit, but they will come back as tourists in the future. Outside Estonia, the 'Estonian Republic 100' and the foreign programme of the Presidency have been consolidated. Within the framework of the external programme, events will take place outside Estonia to introduce Estonian culture, nature, society, business landscape, people as a whole. It supports interest and readiness to visit Estonia. So, in fact, we are introducing our country both at the events taking place and within the framework of the programmes that are being carried out for this purpose in our embassies, but also, of course, in Brussels. Question 5: 'On the basis of the Action Plan for Premiere, 2015-2018 will be drawn up. The central budget for the year 2010 will be set up. Will the investments carried out under the Presidency be financed from European Union funds or from the pockets of the Estonian taxpayer? ' There is no plan for more investment in real estate items in the Presidency's budget. From the point of view of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our permanent representation in Brussels, precisely its infrastructure, needs to be renewed, because during the Presidency we need to accommodate or find premises for a double number of people. This is planned for 1.3 million euros in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget. Work has already started and will continue next year. The budget of the Presidency primarily finances staff and economic expenditure in Tallinn and Brussels. As regards events in Tallinn, these include meetings organised by the Riigikogu, informal meetings of ministers, experts, visits, conferences and seminars. For the latter, co-financing by the EU institutions is also possible. Finally, I hope that the exchange of information and cooperation with the Riigikogu will become even closer as the Presidency approaches. As regards specific issues concerning budget, events, premises and other technical details, the central coordinator is the State Chancellery. They have accurate information on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U85	Nevertheless, members of the Riigikogu have questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Your last sentence made the question that I had planned partially non-relevant, because I was just about to ask you about the office premises. You were talking about conference centres and bigger rooms at all, but you should still have an idea of how many and to what extent we need office spaces during this period. How are these procurements going to take place? I am not hiding that the motivation of this issue is, among other things, the assumption that one of the major sponsors of the Reform Party is developing real estate in the Tallinn Seaside region with the aim of renting these office rooms during the Presidency. I hope this speculation is not entirely competent. However, how will all of this work so that we know that the arrangements are transparent and clear?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U87	Thank you for your question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. I can repeat what I have already said: today we do not yet know the exact calendar and we do not know how many events will take place, how many people will participate and what rooms will be needed. Yeah, all these rooms are found in public procurement. We have a little experience since the informal meeting of NATO Foreign Ministers in Tallinn, attended by representatives of 27 countries. Yeah, we have some experience. Then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs organised, at the moment there is a central authority that manages a large budget and who will organise procurements, the State Chancellery. But I am sure that everything will be transparent and objective and the Riigikogu will be informed of everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U88	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U89	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary of State! The question is a little bit negative. Your preparations are maximum and certainly worth supporting, but maybe this is speculation, someone else is preparing for this Presidency as well. Maybe schoolteachers, kindergarten teachers and farmers are planning big steps. Don't you think that at the same time, some kind of resistance movement will be revived and demonstrations will be organised? And if you have thought about it, what measures do you intend to take to show Estonia more beautiful than it really is?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U90	Thank you for your question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. We have not thought about whether we are going to organise counter-actions or whether we are going to keep demonstrations away or suppress them, or whether we are going to show Estonia more beautiful than it is. Estonia is a democratic state and Estonia has the right to express its opinion, but in what form, where and who will express their opinion during the Presidency, this is a matter more for the internal security service. But we are certainly not going to show Estonia more beautiful than Estonia is. Estonia is a nice and democratic country enough, and the guests who come here can see it as it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U91	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U92	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister, for your answers so far and I hope that the next answer will also please me. Your answers went through the word 'troika'. Indeed, it is three countries, one of which is the Republic of Estonia. Have these two countries already started their joint preparatory work and, if so, how intense is it? Cooperation is likely to grow, as the year 2018 is getting closer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U93	Thank you very much for your question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Indeed, with us is the Troika of Great Britain and Bulgaria. There is no action plan based on a specific calendar. But a week ago, I met with the British Foreign Minister in London, and we also discussed the Presidency. The fact that the British are preparing for the Presidency is, in my opinion, very positive. While they are preparing for a referendum on the future of the European Union, on membership of the European Union, they are also preparing for the Presidency. What have we discussed? We have been discussing whether the three of us could have issues that would go through all the presidencies, not that one country would be dealing with one issue for six months, and then the next country would be dealing with other issues for six months. We're trying to find common ground. It seems that the issues we are prepared to address together in all the presidencies are competitiveness, innovation, the economy, the internal market. This topic can even be brought forward a little bit. The Netherlands and Slovakia have also said that these are issues that interest them. So we expect such continuing issues to be dealt with through a number of Presidencies, so the Presidencies can be more effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U94	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U95	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary of State! I believe that you fully agree with me that the 'good weather' in foreign policy is over, that there are rather difficult times ahead. We see it every day. It is possible that Britain will no longer be troikas, possible and extremely likely that we will have to organise crisis meetings, that Estonia will quite often be visited by a large number of top leaders from other countries, the European Commission, etc. Is Estonia also ready to keep the borders under control to keep the reinforced police forces and perhaps the riot police? Have all these preparations already started, or are they planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U96	Thank you for your question. As far as the Presidency is concerned, having also spoken to the British Foreign Minister, I can only repeat what he said. He said they were preparing for the Presidency. And today we know that the British are taking over before us. Yeah, anything can happen. If there were to be such a thing as Britain not holding the Presidency before us, then of course we will respond to it together with the other Member States of the European Union. As far as the riot police are concerned, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not begun to prepare such a plan, but I am sure that the internal security authorities have thought about it. After all, we have had important meetings in the past, including summits, and they can also take place during the Presidency. As far as the number of summits is concerned, consideration must be given to how they can be organised in a sensible way. In some cases, summits have taken place in Brussels, as it will be easier for the Heads of State or Government of the Member States to travel there, especially when there is a short deadline for advance notice. By this I would like to say that not all meetings during our Presidency will take place in Tallinn or elsewhere in Estonia, they will be held in Tallinn or Brussels according to what is reasonable and as convenient as possible for other Member States.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U97	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U98	Thank you. Madam Minister! You spoke of the Presidency as a challenge for the diplomats of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the entire ministry. In this respect, I have such a question. You recently visited Ida-Virumaa, and I believe you have fresh impressions of this region. How would you formulate the challenge of the Presidency for those who live in Ida-Viru County? Is there anything peculiar about the people in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U99	Thank you for your question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Yes, indeed I went to Ida-Virumaa a few weeks ago. I can't tell you the extent to which people in one region are more special than in another, but I can tell you that all the meetings that took place in Narva and Jõhvi were special. And what made these meetings special was that people were interested in foreign policy. We talked a lot about crises, but we also talked about the Presidency of the European Union and also talked to young people at school. When I left there, I left with the positive knowledge that young people and the older generation are interested not only in Estonia's internal politics, not only in matters within Estonia, but they are educated, they are open-minded and they are also interested in foreign policy. I believe that Ida-Virumaa is also a very dignified Estonian region during the Presidency, just as it is every day in our daily lives.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U100	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U101	Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answers. Surely British behavior is the only thing right now, as both scenarios need to be prepared. It is likely that their referendum will remain in 2017 and the result will only be known by the Most High in heaven. Maybe he knows how the people decide. And, therefore, the government must also be prepared either to be the Presidency or to leave the European Union. That is exactly what I am interested in, because there have been very stormy events over the last six months, both in connection with the crisis in the euro area and the migration crisis. The persistence of the Schengen area has swayed, certain countries may leave. Has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs carried out a threat assessment and forecast regarding the risk that in 2.5 years' time, the European Union will no longer exist in the form it is now?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U102	Thank you for your question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. We are now living in the knowledge that we are preparing for the Presidency, just as Britain is preparing for the Presidency, just as the Netherlands, Slovakia and after us Bulgaria are preparing for the Presidency. If something should happen, of course, the situation must be assessed and its actions changed accordingly. At present, we do not have any risk assessments, nor do we have any scenarios, as to how we would do the Presidency without the British Presidency. We are now preparing to do after Britain and before the Bulgarian Presidency, and I very much hope that everything will go according to this plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U103	Thank you, Madam Secretary. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U104	You must have noticed that our questions were not prepared in an inconvenient, less indictible way of speaking. These questions were filled with genuine interest as well as some concern about how these preparations had started and how they were going. It is likely that the first half of 2018 will be such that the coalition and the opposition will seek to act in one direction. Estonia must look as successful as possible, as efficient as possible, to lead the European Union for a whole six months. Perhaps some of the foreign ministers' responses were somewhat surprised by the opportunity to hold a meeting of heads of government and heads of state in Brussels. This is undoubtedly an opportunity, but I believe that on the other hand it is an excellent opportunity to create a representative building in Tallinn, where there is a hall that accommodates a large number of people and has a floor area of about 800 square meters. We understand that big events of this kind will hopefully come to Estonia in the future. And it would be nice if the heads of state and government from all over the European Union were to travel not to 'home' Brussels, but to Tallinn. Maybe they'll come here another time. And a second point: the state should certainly make every effort to ensure that the connections with Tallinn are as favourable as possible this semester. It would be unpleasant if a visitor would not come to Tallinn because traveling from other parts of Europe is associated with a great deal of inconvenience. These are two issues that I think should be dealt with seriously in order for our Presidency to be a success. Thank you and your strength!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U105	Is there something the Minister would like to say? No, I don't. Questions have been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U106	And now, after the hammer hit, please speak in a free microphone, Jüri Adams! No, I'm sorry, March Sultsi!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U107	Honorable Chairman! Honourable colleagues! The rare free microphone time I want to talk about the salaries of teachers, including kindergarten teachers. This is where the idea was that we need to honor the teaching profession and raise their wages. Now let's turn the clock back five or four years, Aaviksoo time. That's all teachers' salaries, teachers' salaries, teachers' salaries were told from morning to night. The general attitude of the citizenry is what they complain about all the time. There's some creepy shit going on, even though our country gets a lot less paid than they do. They just keep complaining, and they don't have much to do with it all the time. I mean, the teacher shouldn't talk about his salary. There's a minister, a ministry. There are local authorities who should simply value the teaching work and give more money on a need-based basis, as much as is needed to raise a person, to enrich the inner world of a small person. After all, he must be made into a great person who is necessary for the Republic of Estonia. After all, this is completely unacceptable and pointless bullshit, I apologize for the expression! That teachers and school leaders from morning to night keep saying that there is no money. For God's sake, no plane, no car, no train if there's no fuel. After all, everything stops when one of the country's main beams, or education, is excluded from the overall food chain as a non-priority. That's a lot of stupidity. A minister, Mr Aaviksoo, spoke about the effectiveness of the work. How can you measure the effectiveness of work at school? The efficiency of work comes out in 20 to 30 years, only then can you see whether the teacher's work was good or bad. How can the effectiveness of the work of a social worker be measured if he or she has only one hour or two hours to deal with the child? It can't be measured. The teacher can make the child's eyes shine for a moment. But what a man has become of his directed child, he will not see until 10, 20, 30 years from now. Minister of Education Ligi said that the end of my question was very depressing, that comrade psychologist prescribes some kind of medicine, is Xanax, Imovane or something else. He's doing it with a loose wrist, because that's how he gets rid of a troubled baby and the baby's on a nice hook. Xanax is going to be some other problem, after which there is another problem, and that is the whole story for society that this person is missing. Let's not talk about the teacher's salary, let's not talk about valorizing the teacher's work! The value of a teacher's work is a value in itself. It doesn't have to be valued, it's the basis of everything that exists. And if you don't understand, please turn your eyes, decision-makers, their tables and chairs will be empty, in the animal kingdom, and see how things are there. There's no forgiveness for mistakes. But a man is stupid about it. The teacher's salary as such, let's put three points here. Define who's the teacher. The teacher is undefined. Who gets paid, either a teacher or a master, an apprentice or a senior teacher? Or is everyone's salary increased, including those who play teacher in front of the class? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U108	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U109	Mr President of the sitting! I will continue on the subject of the last two Mondays. If you look at the statistics, the rights we have in this room are fine. The four laws are that they are unreasonably limited, but at least one has been unreasonably extended again, i.e. the possibility of abuse has been given. I think it should be concluded that it would be reasonable for us to succeed in launching a working group on the revision and renewal of the Rules of Procedure. In previous times such working groups have been formed by the Riigikogu's board, but it has not always proved to be very useful, as there have been a large number of people working in the working groups who, while receiving a salary from the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, have no practical experience with the work of the Riigikogu. If there's any other way, it's welcome. If, for some reason, this job does not start, then this problem will not go away. The following Riigikogu formations will come and face the same problems and shape their opinion. We hardly have a consensus on the Rules of Procedure, but we could work together to ensure that there is a sufficient majority in support of the Rules of Procedure. We understand what happened at the end of Riigikogu IX, not all subsequent changes to the Rules of Procedure have been very successful. The vague rights of a member of the Riigikogu in the Chamber are certainly not the only problem in the Rules of Procedure and perhaps not the most serious problem. Personally, I consider the issue of the importance of the institution of the political group in the Riigikogu to be the most serious one, and whether it has been reasonably resolved. This also raises the issue of the reading of the drafts. There are nominally three of them, actually and essentially there are two of them left. The third reading was historically such that then the substantive issues of the draft were no longer discussed, but only the wording of finesse. This was expressed in the Rules of Procedure of the 1930s in such a way that amendments could only be tabled for those parts which had already been amended by the previous proposals. It is now reduced to the level of linguistic finish and linguistic editing and the members of the Riigikogu are essentially excluded from it. At second reading, as it is now, you could agree in principle, although there is no longer much practice of interrupting second reading. But there's a lot of trouble with the first reading. At first reading, two questions have had to be answered historically: firstly, whether the proposed law is necessary at all, and secondly, whether a specific draft is suitable for the basic text of the law. Yes, there is a lot of trouble with this, and these woes are basically all the same that we do not have the right opportunity to speak on these issues. But I will conclude by saying the same thing that I very much hope that the Board of the Riigikogu will set up some kind of working group to propose amendments to the Rules of Procedure. If this does not happen, we must jointly find another way to launch this task force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U110	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U111	Mr President, and other colleagues who have so few of you left in the Chamber, although the time is not late. I always enjoy the performances of Maestro Adams. I'm not going to talk about teachers' salaries either. I'll bring you reports of reality, I'll tell you how the country lives. Yesterday I visited a farmer who had a small flock and was literally distressed. We've been talking in this hall about top-up and how Lithuanians and Latvians are paying for it. We've been talking about moving milk from here to there and from there to here. But we have not really understood how people live on land, how small producers live, not to mention large ones. If at the beginning of last year this particular farmer received 37 cents for a litre of milk, now the price is 23 cents. He compared these crises, 1998 and the current crisis. He said that when we escaped in two months, when the money didn't come, the crisis now is much longer. There are now some 400 herds on their way to a meat factory. Those cows don't know that yet, but the owners do. They don't have feed for the winter. What is the result or outcome of all of this? Recently we learned that Estonian milking is really good. We've already gone up second in the global race. And when the poorer herds, whose average production is not 11000 kilograms per cow, fall out, the average rises. So the irony is that this is how we get the average milk yield higher and higher, and maybe one day we'll be the first in the world. But what are we really going to do with this? We will achieve that not only will the livestock disappear, but also the workers will disappear, not only those who milk and do the cows, but also feed manufacturers, as well as those who supply the farms with medicines and additives. By the way, a lot of people have fingers so low that they can't afford to buy any more supplements and drugs, not to mention that a herd is being sold off, they're being sent to meat combinations. Our tentatories will soon not be able to process much meat, we must send it to Poland. Such small reports of reality now on the eve of the evening when the sun begins to set and when we were talking here about teachers' salaries and enjoyed Maestro Adams' intellectually outstanding speech. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-26_U112	Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow. Good night. Closure of the sitting at 17.11.
