ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 3rd working week Tuesday session of the 2nd plenary session. First of all, I would like to ask those who have drafts or inquiries to hand over. Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will initiate the 2016 draft State Budget Act. The Minister of Finance Sven Sester represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U3	I have adopted one draft, which the Board of the Riigikogu directs to the proceedings on the basis of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Two messages. After the plenary session, there is a desire to set up two support groups: Lauri Luik convenes the Food Bank Support Group and Raivo Aeg convenes the Hunting Support Group. Let's do a presence check, please! There are 80 members of the Riigikogu, no 21.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U4	Our first item is the political statement by Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Let me briefly state how this item will be dealt with on the basis of Article 155 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. This is happening in a way that has become a tradition in previous years. First of all, the Prime Minister has a political statement that lasts up to 20 minutes. On the basis of paragraph 155, the Management Board and the Prime Minister have agreed that no questions will be asked. This will be followed by negotiations involving representatives of the political groups. Let's get started. Please, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Estonian civil servant Eston Kohver, who was kidnapped from the territory of the Republic of Estonia in violation of international law, is back at home. The injustice of one year and three weeks is over. I would like to thank once again everyone who made a serious effort to release him at home in Estonia as well as our friends, partners and allies abroad, who vocally demanded the end of injustice. I thank Eston Kohver for his courage and all the people of Estonia who never lost faith in the Estonian state. Good Riigikogu! By keeping one country together, nothing is impossible. Together, we can do more, because Estonia has a jaancrossic characteristic of being larger than its own borders. Do more than we're expected. Do even more than we expect ourselves to do. The Government of the Republic has just handed over to you the draft State Budget Act 2016 amounting to EUR 8.9 billion. This is over 4% more than we planned with the state budget for 2015. We gave you a well-considered and responsible budget that will improve the lives of the people of Estonia. A budget that guarantees security contributes to income growth and improves well-being for all, from children to the most dignified. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like Estonia to become a country where the standards of living and security of the Nordic countries have been achieved, but which is both more socially flexible and technologically dynamic. A country that is well protected and economically successful, open and tolerant of differences, ensuring equal opportunities and valuing the family. A country whose Europeanism is unwavering and which is firmly part of the Western cultural space. And by borrowing the idea of historian Niall Ferguson, we are part of the West, which wipes dust from its strategy, learns to defend itself again and stands unitedly for its own values in the world, as it stood for Eston Kohver. A year ago, when I handed over the 2015 budget in this remote area, I stressed that our security environment has changed and has changed in the long term. Now, a year later, there is still a war going on in Ukraine. Moreover, there are new dangers that seem to be distant, but which would be foolishly shortsighted to ignore. There is no doubt that what is happening beyond Europe's southern border directly affects how we live in Estonia: the war in Syria, the conflict in Libya, the emergence of ISIS as a phenomenon. In many respects, these areas of conflict are the reason why Europe is facing the biggest refugee crisis since World War II. A well-designed defence and strong alliances have provided us with security and security over the years. Estonian diplomats, state officials and politicians have consistently worked for this. Besides NATO membership, being a member of the European Union is just as important. Speaking about European values is no longer just a mouthpiece; words must also be confirmed by action. The crisis has grown so big in Europe that all responsibility cannot be left on the hands of the countries where war refugees arrive. Estonia is not an isolated island that would be left untouched by what is happening elsewhere. Estonia's European and value-based duty is to contribute responsibly and in solidarity to resolving the crisis. Whether a small child is bound by shoelaces or helped by a rustic man, no man is greater than one who worships to help a needy person. European values are part of our identity. We follow certain principles and firmly adhere to the fundamentals of democracy. We have freedom of person and expression, we understand each other and we respect each other, we discuss, we argue and we are responsible for our words and actions. There is no place or place in Estonia for dishonesty or raising our own interests above the laws in force. Corruption at any level is a serious threat to our values and an axe blow to the foundations of our country. In order to ensure the security of the Estonian state, we will continue to contribute responsibly and consistently to Estonian national defence. Also next year, Estonia's contribution to national defence will exceed the agreed NATO level by 2% of GDP. In addition to this 2%, we will cover the costs related to the continuous presence of NATO allies in Estonia and the strengthening of NATO's visible deterrence. Estonia's security is certain because we take national defence seriously and keep our allies' promises. As important as military protection is national security. In order to ensure that there is a safe border between Estonia and Russia, we will invest 20 million euros next year in building the border. It's more than ever. We will also invest in improving training opportunities for police and border guards, strengthen rapid response capabilities and upgrade the equipment of internal security staff. We will make every effort to ensure that the working conditions of people guaranteeing the security of our country are motivating: the payroll fund of the Police and Border Guard Board and the Salvation Board staff will increase by 4% next year. In order to protect the Estonian state, all state institutions and, in fact, the whole society must be prepared. We will continue to implement comprehensive national defence, focusing on ensuring the continuity of vital services. Dear Riigikogu! I believe that the state can intervene directly in the economy as rarely as possible and only where it is necessary. But the state must create a growth-friendly environment for businesses, because only economic growth will ensure a sustainable increase in prosperity and income. The Estonian economy is growing rapidly compared to the euro area countries, but are we satisfied with this? No. A few percentage increases are clearly too small for Estonia. To speed up growth, the government will lower taxes on labour and we will contribute to productivity, export and investment. You have already approved an increase in the tax-free minimum for the coming years, and we will also reduce social tax in the coming years. In order for our people to live longer and healthier, we will continue to tax vices by increasing excise duties on alcohol and tobacco. It also contributes to economic growth if the state does not impose unnecessary administrative burdens on businesses, but constantly seeks to make the public sector more efficient, simplify the rules and reduce red tape. We consider it important today to help those who, thanks to their smart specialisation, are carrying tomorrow's economic growth in Estonia. We support companies in introducing new technologies and materials. We help those who develop products and services with high added value together with universities and research institutions. We see a big picture and prioritise education. We have agreed to raise teachers' salaries to 120% of the Estonian average and create the prerequisites for researchers and engineers to have solid post-growth. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Life around us changes every day. The changes can be taken into account, they can be responded, they can be induced themselves, but they can be ignored. In addition to the agreed priorities, the government must also have the flexibility to respond to changed circumstances. The President of the Republic told you from this very speaker that the difficult situation in agriculture is not just a matter of one industry, but is a matter of the survival of rural areas outside cities. The Government of the Republic is in solidarity with Estonian farmers fighting the crisis and will direct 144.8 million euros to agriculture and rural development next year. In the crisis, we will allocate another EUR 7.6 million from the state budget, of which three million were already paid out this year. In total, this year we have decided to channel EUR 40 million of emergency crisis aid into agriculture, the lion's share of which goes to support the dairy sector and to prevent and combat swine plague. Good ambassadors! I have spoken on several occasions today about responsibility. I have also talked about Estonia becoming a new Nordic country, which is as wealthy and safe as the old Nordic countries, but more dynamic, flexible and responsive to change more quickly. Estonia's working-age population is declining and therefore the number of employees paid by the state cannot increase. In 2016, we will reduce the number of civil servants, centralise support services, introduce more e-services and reduce the management costs of management areas by an average of 3%. The money saved will be directed primarily to the payroll fund of those officials whose income and well-being are most in our interest. In the coming year, the wage fund for teachers, cultural workers, internal security and social welfare workers will increase by 4%, plus savings from efficiency gains. Registered unemployment has fallen to 4% in Estonia and thousands of unfilled jobs across Estonia. This is the best possible time to implement the mid-2016 work capacity reform, which will also help people with reduced working capacity to work. Helping people who have so far been excluded to work makes Estonia healthier in many ways. The most secure guarantee of subsistence is, of course, a worthwhile job. Although unemployment in Estonia is falling and wages are rising, there are also those who need support from the state. The budget that will be transferred to you will improve the management of your families and give greater certainty to people with lower incomes and older people tomorrow. In January, the first and second children will receive 50 euros of support. In addition, the government doubles home allowances for families with children, invests in creating additional childcare facilities and providing care for children with disabilities. In 2016, tax-free income will rise from EUR 154 to EUR 170. This means EUR 2040 tax-free per year. People with lower incomes will have the opportunity to recover income tax paid on wages during the year in the new year. To support families in need of state support, the level of subsistence will rise significantly next year, from 90 euros to 130 euros per family member. We will also not forget the elderly and those who have contributed to the promotion of Estonia's life with their work. For old age to be prosperous and dignified, the average old age pension will rise by 5.7%, from EUR 375 to EUR 395, and will continue to be tax-free. We will also significantly increase the means of health insurance to give people who are more caring for their health because of their high age. Honourable Riigikogu! Although Estonia is already a dream welfare society for the vast majority of the world's inhabitants, we have plenty of things that we can do even better. Our goal is to develop a country from Estonia where it is good to work and where you do not need to go abroad to look for work. A country where society as a whole is involved in creating and sharing the benefits of economic growth. A country with innovative and flexible social organisation. A country known for its good business environment, for its creative work that enriches world culture and for its friendly people. The public finance working document next year will help us to take a long step closer to these goals in each of these areas. I call on you to support the draft State Budget Act 2016 submitted by the Government of the Republic and I would like to ask the Riigikogu for constructive budgetary discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U6	Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! When today's Prime Minister first requested a mandate from the Riigikogu a year and a half ago, he said that Estonia does not need a major narrative. The Prime Minister began to be a little fooled over this sentence and his campaign advisors hatched the idea of Estonia as a new Nordic country for the last election of the Riigikogu. This idea was presented by the Prime Minister today. We do not yet know the nuances of the budget that has been transferred today, but one thing is clear: the big narrative, the promised big picture, we will not find a big plan here. This is the ticking budget, after which the young head of government can sigh old-fashioned: another year towards death, once again remaining in power for one year. How does the budget express the idea of our country being itself? Why do we decide so and not differently? What's the purpose? The Prime Minister's presentation today did not provide convincing answers. Journalist Anvar Samos wrote three days ago in the newspaper North Coast aptly about the courage to make decisions: "The lack of it is precisely the reason for our last years. [---] Men and women who came into power in generational change were expecting to cope with martlarian or similican risks and without taking responsibility, but the reality is different. " If your courage and ideas are lacking, and the use of experts or, God forbid, opposition thoughts is honorable, then they can be written off from some Nordic country 80 kilometers from us and where the Prime Minister wants to take his country out of the dead end and knows what he wants. Our government seems to believe that good things happen in their own right, and economic growth also turns up when they simply believe what they want to happen. This is probably why there is no point in the draft budget that would improve the Estonian economic environment and steer it towards growth. What is the basis for the growth forecast for the coming year? The trend in export earnings is shrinking and the economic situation of the nearest neighbours is not a cause for optimism. The government acknowledges that the budget is in a small deficit, even though the money has been scraped all over the place where the nails were left. Raising state fees and fines above a reasonable limit, raising excise duties on fuel, raising VAT on accommodation establishments, limiting the deduction of training costs, reducing the tax deductible ceiling on income tax, all of this reduces the competitiveness of our companies and not increases them. It is said to improve the livelihood of low-wage earners. From what end? In particular, it is the low-wage earners that are burdened by consistent and unreasonable increases in consumption taxes. To say the opposite is, in my opinion, hypocritical. The Free Party has proposed to increase the tax-free minimum to 400 euros and to cover it by increasing the personal income tax rate. At the moments of lucidity in the summer, this idea was supported by the Social Democrats. I would remind you that half of the earners in Estonia receive 600 euros or less per month. Impoverishment could be decisively alleviated if I suggested it. Minister Ossinovski rightly said a few days ago that unemployment insurance is a hidden income tax. Even the unemployment fund over the edge is pumped into the money without listening to the recommendations of employers' experts. The government knows what it's doing, like the widow of the colonel of Smuuli, who declared that doctors don't know anything. If the IRL dared to tell the big brother directly that there is no need to hold on to dogma so that the rate of income tax cannot be increased, then there would be no need for a complex system of low-paid tax refunds, which is likely to lead to fraud first and then total disappointment. May I have an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U8	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U9	With regard to this budget, the government has also stressed the suppression of peripheralisation. In fact, there is neither an action plan nor money in the draft budget to stop the run-down of rural areas. Before the elections, all government parties today promised to support small farms. Where does the budget express this support? Two government parties today promised to pay the full amount of transitional support from the state budget to Estonian agriculture. Instead of a possible 20 million, the budget is planned several times less. In the run-up to the elections, most parties promised to increase the co-financing rate of the RDP from 15% to 25%. None of this happened. From here it is appropriate to go to the issue of local governments. As the chorus repeats in the song every year the local government associations admit that requests to restore the municipal income base and increase the funds allocated to local roads have not been included in the budget. This is also like Estonia's regional policy. It is quite sympathetic in itself that the government is trying to save government spending by redundancies, but whether this must be done with the quota system that has been learned from Brussels is a bit questionable. Perhaps this could have been done in a little more substantial terms. Of course, there is something in the draft budget that the opposition will sign, but I will not stop at any longer, because the coalition's self-glorification comes from all the pipes now, and it will soon make everyone's ears sound. As the Estonian proverb says: every setu praises his pot. It is unlikely that major changes will occur in budgetary disputes at all. We already experienced the coalition's pattern in June this year. If this budget has been called a budget of confidence in the media, then I dare modestly mean that a road roller is not the best way to build trust. Maybe the government coalition is mercifully giving in to some things. Using the words of journalist Peep Pahvi, it can be said that if the applicant downgrades himself enough and weeps like a puppy, then perhaps national broadcasting can still show the Olympics. With the so-called roofing money, maybe the 'Bush Point' and Horizon will survive, but it's all more cosmetics. However, it is important to try, and the Free Party will certainly do its best to propose improvements. The first free millions, ladies and gentlemen, are very easy to find as a source of good and necessary changes: by halving the funding of political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U10	Please, Kadri Simson, on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party. Can I have some more time, please? Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the 2016 state budget, I must start by acknowledging the Ministry of Finance. Whether by accident or purpose, the Ministry of Finance had access to the state budget for the following year on its website yesterday, and the representatives of the opposition groups did not have to grope in the dark today and trust the Prime Minister's words and his press releases, but could rely on a real document. Thanks for that. The budget expenditure for next year will be EUR 8.9 billion and revenues EUR 8.83 billion. Perhaps for the seventh year, we are living at the expense of reserves and loans, and net assets are constantly decreasing. Is this our government's sustainable and thoughtful fiscal policy? The government has come up with a beautiful new expression,'structurally balanced budgetary positions', but nominally, we are always talking about the fact that next year we will get back to balance, but this next year will move forward every autumn. This time, too, we will have another year when we are being presented with the promise of a bending budget that perhaps the next year will be better. The Prime Minister promised yesterday that it was such a good budget that the opposition had nothing to say. I must grieve the Prime Minister, far from it. When it comes to the good aspects of the budget, it is boasted that there will be an increase in pensions and that additional money will be found for the sickness fund. But I would point out that these are the increases previously agreed in the law. This is not an extraordinary increase in pensions, but an indexation, the compulsory nature of which stems from the Pension Insurance Act. I remember the episode of Little Hänna, where the Bible page came to Vestmann's daughter with a match of Vestmann's own money. One thing that we welcome is the fact that the Reform Party has understood the need to increase tax-free income. The increase in the tax-free minimum increases the progressiveness of the income tax system and contributes substantially more to the low-paid people than to the reduction in the income tax rate. But it is a question of how the tax-free income increases from EUR 154 to EUR 170 for the Social Democrats who wanted to increase the tax-free minimum if the Coalition Agreement was opened to EUR 400. It was as if the coalition agreement was opened and advertised as a big job win, but its substantial result is chai. At this rate, EUR 16 per year, we will reach the EUR 400 tax-free minimum in 15 years. Quite a tempting prospect! In the 15-year term, we have been promised European wealth in the past. However, the impact of opening a coalition agreement in this budget is not generally reflected, which is unfortunate, of course. Looking at the revenue side of the 2016 state budget, the amount of tax revenue will increase by 5.3%, and the very large part of this increase will be EUR 55.5 million, with a growing fuel excise duty. It is appropriate to recall the tax increases at the beginning of the summer. As a result, excise duties on diesel will increase by 14% next year, excise duties on special fuel will also increase, excise duties on petrol will rise by 10% and excise duties on natural gas will increase by 20%. Next year, 12.8% more excise duties are planned to be collected. A great victory is to show that there are increasing allocations, for example, for the maintenance and maintenance of local roads. But has happiness really come to the court of local governments? I'd rather not. With regard to the figures indicated in the explanatory memorandum, next year EUR 29,7 million will be allocated to local roads. But in comparison: eight years ago, in 2008, this amount was one third higher, or EUR 40.5 million. The big question mark next year is the rise in teachers' salaries. Once again, I must come to the opening of the coalition agreement when it was promised that in three years' time the teacher would receive 20% higher pay than the national average. This is a very welcome objective and I support this proposal on two sides, but unfortunately it seems unrealistic when we look at the state budget for next year, where education support will only increase by 2.4%. In his speech, the Prime Minister said that action must be effective in order to earn the salary increase. But I'm asking you what the effect of schools and education is. Well, then, honestly, it's a school lockdown. Yesterday, Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi came to this hall to answer questions and it seemed that even he was disappointed in this budget. I quote his answer to the question of what is the minimum wage for teachers next year and what kind of support education can count on: 'The minimum wage that has been included in the budget for next year, I cannot tell you. However, I must admit that I am disappointed in the budget. I am disappointed that the people who raised expectations in the field of education did not come to support when it was necessary to support them. I did my best, and I intend to continue it, but the first decisions were not what I expected. ' Yesterday, the Riigikogu hall was still disappointed. The National Audit Office applied for an increase in the budget to ensure internal security and the audit capability of the defence sector. He's been doing it for the third year in a row. The request requested EUR 250000 in order to create a competent entity for auditing defence expenditure. This money is not in the budget, and the government's justification is that the number of participants in employment is decreasing and the state must be guided by the general trends in the labour market. However, § 15 of the National Audit Office Act states that the number of posts and the number of employees of the officials of the National Audit Office is determined by the Auditor General. Thus, the Government of the Republic has no right to prescribe metrics to the Auditor General, how many employees or posts can be held at the National Audit Office; this is only appointing the Auditor General. Why does the government not want the National Audit Office to have the capacity to effectively audit defence costs, which have increased by more than 100 million euros over the last five years? Where does the government gain the right to intervene in the autonomous decision-making power of the Auditor General in an attempt to prescribe how many people the National Audit Office may have to perform its tasks? Finally, I will come to the biggest problem in next year's state budget and this will be the transitional support for farmers. We all acknowledge that this year is an extraordinary year in agriculture, and obviously agriculture is in one of the greatest crises of all time. The Russian import ban, the low milk buying-in price and the swine plague have created a situation where this sector needs support. The European Union allows Estonia to further support farmers from the state budget until 2020. For the following year, the subsidy rate would be EUR 21,5 million. Instead, the country will support our agricultural sector in the next year's budget with an exceptional aid of 4.6 million euros. Apparently, 101 tractors in this demonstration were not enough for the government to start worrying about the welfare of Estonian farmers and to understand their concerns. Thus, the 2016 state budget is still far from ideal, but if the government takes into account the opposition's amendments, the biggest problems of the budget can certainly be corrected together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U12	Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please! Can I have some more time, please? Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U13	Dear Speaker! Gentlemen, ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, I want to start with a little credit. In itself, the Minister for Finance, the Head of Government and the whole government have put on paper a more or less polite budget, which at least on paper is almost balanced. It can also be recognised that this budget deals with the pains of life in Estonia. But with this, my recognition or praise is limited, we must move on to criticism. This is again a budget, as already mentioned by the previous speakers, which implements the 'excel table' method of government. There is no long plan for the Estonian economy in this budget. There is no understanding of what could turn the Estonian economy into good growth in the long term, both economic growth and productivity growth. Much of this is about raising money from one pocket to another. Perhaps when we hear about the increase in budget revenue, when the budget looks closer, it turns out that the increase in revenue is actually linked to the increase in the state's own expenditure, it is either a rise in the minimum wage or a rise in pensions, which goes back to the increase in tax revenues, or an increase in all kinds of excise duties and other levies. Maybe the same Excel chart again. It must also be said that these approved priority areas, namely social expenditure, security and support for families, can be summed up by the words 'too little and too late'. In particular, it should be pointed out that agriculture is not actually supported. All the numbers we've got here aren't going to help agriculture. In fact, agricultural funding is not increasing. There's still no top-up and no emergency crisis response plan. There are also a few mischiefs coming out of the budget. For example, preparing the Presidency of the European Union will cost the Estonian state about as much as ensuring the presence of the Allied forces, i.e. about 10 million euros. It's the question of relativity again, that there's a little bit of it for one thing, and there's a little bit of it for another. Nor do we see the plan to bring the Estonian people back to Estonia. We all know that Estonia is in a long demographic decline and this decline is greatly exacerbated by the departure of the Estonian people. We know that some 70,000 people of working age live permanently outside Estonia, and their children must also be taken into account. If we could get even half of these people back to Estonia, it would take away the press of the labour market from us for several good years and eliminate the problem that is currently burdening the Estonian economy. This is wage growth not covered by productivity growth, which reduces our competitiveness. Any tax increases that will come from next year will help to increase competitiveness and, as the previous speakers have already said, will actually make people's lives worse. So not only does the budget have a plan to bring back its own people, but there is no plan to boost economic growth and there is no plan to save agriculture. This is the budget for sustainable shrinking thinking. When I first said that this budget was at least beautiful on paper, at least I have a very serious suspicion that these sums will not come together in reality. If we look at the economic environment of Estonia and our neighbours, there is a very serious suspicion that budget revenue has been overestimated, too much air has been put in, and we are in a situation in spring or early summer where, as in June of this year, we need to scrape together the millions that are missing again so that we can report in Brussels that our budget is in structural balance. Conservative People's Party has had a number of proposals on how to direct the Estonian economy to growth. Above all, our proposal has been to reduce consumption taxes, both VAT and excise duties, and instead to tax capital, which has been disproportionately low in Estonia, compared to the rest of Europe, and which gives a very small share of our budget revenues. By taxing more capital, both consumption taxes and labour taxes could be reduced. This latter has been the main mantra of the current government coalition. Our second proposal is to launch a plan to save Estonia's citizens and bring people back here, and given that in Europe, the money print has been launched to give their homes to young families, according to which every young family who has bought a home will erase the country from a quarter of the loan after each child's birth. Such proposals, of course, do not reach our current government, because they go beyond the mindset of the Excel table and sustainable decline, but these changes would be essential. I hope that during the budget debate, however, the roller coaster will not be used as brutally as we have already seen during this membership, and that the opposition will be able to table proposals that the coalition will seriously consider and take into account, and that the debate that lies ahead, as the Prime Minister requested, will be meaningful, sensible and considerate. But I'm not too optimistic about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U14	Priit Sibul on behalf of the IRL Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U15	Dear Speaker, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance leaving the hall! Ladies and gentlemen and guests! The 2016 state budget amounts to EUR 8.9 billion and is in structural surplus. The guests of the hall are well aware that each budget is a great art of compromise, and above all the priorities set out in the government coalition. I guess these priorities always depend on the world view, and according to this, each party is also trying to reflect the budget for society at large. First of all, I will talk about the budget in general. The 2016 budget has been prepared conservatively and responsibly. Conservative fiscal policy is one of the prerequisites for economic growth, ensuring that the Estonian state is tax-intensive and does not survive its ability. It is important to follow the principles that the country's loan burden will not increase and public finances will also be in order at the end of 2016. However, in my opinion, there is also a great concern here that I cannot provide a concrete solution to. Social expenditure is known to have increased. Now, let no one misinterpret me in this hall. I do not question the need for social spending, and I know that this is inevitable in the current demographic situation. But think of the signal that this gives to workers and entrepreneurs, precisely to those whose contribution this budget will be drawn up. Fortunately, one of the priorities of the budget next year will also be the contribution to working people and the tax refund for low-paid people initiated by the IRL. This measure has been put into practice for the benefit of people who work every day but are still unable to live up to their poor incomes. We must contribute to ensuring that people continue to prefer employment to social benefits. As a result of the tax refund for low-paid people, for example, those earning a minimum wage will be refunded throughout the income tax paid in 2016. In 2017, those who work for at least six months in 2016 and receive a low salary can apply for tax refunds. For example, a person earning 400 euros a month will receive up to 552 euros a year in total. Both on the basis of the above-mentioned tax refund measures and generally on the basis of tax policy, the IRL always assumes that the measures must be needs-based and targeted at those in need. Any money from an airplane is ineffective and, let us be honest, it is also an important reason for increasing spending in the social field. Secondly, I would like to mention the cost of protection. It is true that 2% of GDP goes to defence spending is already a tradition and no longer exceeds the news threshold. However, a few years ago, some in this Chamber questioned the amount of defence expenditure, probably by a few so far. For all doubters, I recommend that you look around the nearest part of Estonia with an open eye. That is what obliges us to invest in our defences. In my opinion, we should do this even more. I therefore point out that, in addition to 2%, we invest money in the presence of our allies. In 2016, EUR 11 million will be invested, mainly for the development of Tapa campus and the improvement of training opportunities on the Central Polygon of the Defence Forces. Thirdly, I would like to highlight reforms and savings from the budget: freezing the payroll fund in the vast majority of the public sector, reducing the number of officials and preparing for administrative reform. First of all, I will talk about administrative reform. For years, IRL has been struggling to make the structure of Estonian municipalities more cost-effective. Over the years, for the first time ever, we have had coalition partners with us. True, we may have a slightly different understanding of this issue, but there is probably nothing insurmountable about it. To the Minister of State Administration, I have a message that the IRL Group will be supportive and fully helpful in this matter. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U16	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U17	In addition to administrative reform, the government plans reforms at national level next year. As I said at the beginning, the demographic situation is making its corrections and it is not possible to combat the ageing of society, at least not in the near future. Thus, if the number of people of working age in the country declines, the number of people paid by the state will also have to decrease, or will soon be all state officials. In order not to do so, the public sector will be reduced by 750 jobs. Our group supports and encourages the government not only to reduce the number of officials but also to review the country's tasks. There are too many tasks, and the audit is welcome here too, and reforms are based on the principle of cutting red tape and government expenditure. Reforms give us the opportunity to keep up with the overall wage increase. Salaries will be granted to teachers, social workers, cultural staff with higher education and internal security staff only next year. There is a total 4% increase in the payroll fund. Health care workers receive additional money through the health insurance fund already agreed before. The IRL Group wants a meaningful debate and a working spirit to deal with the budget. We are also prepared to improve the budget here together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U18	On behalf of the Remo Holsmer Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U19	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The keyword of the state budget transferred by the Prime Minister to the Riigikogu next year is responsibility. This includes ensuring the security of the Estonian state, promoting economic growth and improving people's livelihoods, while ensuring the continuation of sustainable public finances. That's the plan the government is putting into practice. In response to Mr Ammas' criticism that this budget does not have a plan, I say it does. Let me remind you that the Free Party went to the election without a program and got a mandate, I don't know exactly what it was for. I hope that you have completed your programme and will also present your plan on how the state budget might look. As has been said, the 2016 budget has a budget of 8.9 billion euros and a structural surplus. So these keywords, that this is the largest and financially sustainable budget of all time, are certainly important. Tax policy is based on the principle of shifting the tax burden away from labour taxes more towards consumption taxes and will result in an increase in both excise duties on fuel and excise duties on tobacco and alcohol in the coming years. To remind you of the spring tax debate, the government also said that when our neighbouring countries review their excise policy, the Estonian state is ready to do the same. Now, the situation is that the Latvian state is raising excise duties, moving after us, which is the opposite direction. Concerns about the fact that the Estonian state would somehow run away from Latvia in raising excise duties are no longer just valid. To boost growth, government investment will be of considerable importance next year and will increase by more than 20%, to a total of around EUR 500 million. This budget also contributes to economic growth by giving priority to education. Next year, the pay of teachers will rise and the government will aim to increase teachers' wages to 120% of the Estonian average. Road construction and reconstruction will receive EUR 307 million next year, which is just over EUR 20 million more than this year. Growth is supported by a reduction in the tax burden on labour. The government plans to reduce social tax and also increase tax-free income. Next year's tax-free income will rise from EUR 154 to EUR 170. As the Prime Minister emphasised, one of the government's clear priorities is to contribute to national defence. By contributing 2%+ to national defence, we are certainly one of the most advanced NATO Member States. Family benefits and costs for parental benefits are also increasing to improve the livelihood of families with children and increase the birth rate. From 1 January, the first and second children's allowance will increase from EUR 45 to EUR 50 and the third and more children's allowance to EUR 100. Pensions grow by nearly 6%, reaching almost EUR 400 and remaining exempt from income tax in the future. As the Prime Minister pointed out earlier, the wage fund for teachers, cultural workers, social workers, police officers and other internal security workers will grow by 4%. This means that the country will be drawn together, reducing the number of officials, while officials who remain in office will be paid more wages. Similarly, the government directs additional resources to the payroll fund. These are the priorities and plans that the government wants to implement in Estonia with this budget. I would also like to comment on the criticisms previously expressed in the Chamber, which came from the Free Party, the Centre Party and the Conservative People's Party. First, agricultural payments. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U20	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U21	This year, the country will pay an additional EUR 3 million, and next year, EUR 4.6 million. It is simply not true that farmers are not further supported. The facts are that they will receive an additional EUR 7.6 million. In fact, from the speech of the chairman of the Centre Party Group, I have read praise for the fact that the tax-free minimum will increase to 170 euros per month next year, but in the longer term, in four years, it will increase to 205 euros. I've already commented on the fuel excise. The Latvian state will raise excise duties on fuel in the same way, and the Estonian government will continue to be prepared to review other excise duties if Estonia, in turn, loses money as a result of excise policy in other countries. The free party's proposal for a budget is to increase income tax. Firstly, income tax fell by 1% this year, unemployment insurance contributions fell by 0.6%. The message that we are turning back the income tax system is not appropriate. All business organisations and international recommendations say that labour taxes must be reduced because they are too high in Estonia. The Free Party wants to raise them instead. It's a clear world-view choice. The Reform Party will certainly not support an increase in income tax. These were the first comments. I hope that the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu will be tense. We will continue the debate on the substance of the budget as early as Thursday when the Minister of Finance comes to present the Commission's budget. The Committee on Monetary Affairs will then be accompanied by all ministers in the field. I hope that the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs will pass on this information in all political groups. We have now planned the first reading of the budget in the second half of October. I wish everyone a good budget review and I count on the constructive contribution of all the parties represented in the Riigikogu in these debates. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U22	Andres Anvelt on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U23	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Reaching the parliament of the state budget is always a big sign that will be discussed already in the spring with different expectations: whether it gets very hot or not, whether or not there will be night sessions. Today, as they say, the budgetary debate shows that this process will not be easy. Here the coalition has already been accused of making the state budget on the basis of Excel's table, but the opposition's proposals come either as slogans in PowerPoint or as words only in Word. But we Social Democrats have reason to welcome the fact that the budget for the coming year will bear a tangible Social Democratic seal. Firstly, the 2016 budget will certainly improve people's lives, not vice versa, as has been said here. Let us start with children and families. Dear Jüri Ratas, who is just leaving the hall, will surely remember, like many others, that a year ago one child's allowance was EUR 19 and 18 cents. It will be EUR 45 from January this year and will rise to EUR 50 from next year. It seems like it's been this way forever, but it hasn't been this way forever, it's only been this way for six months. It certainly gives families confidence and faith in the future. So, in my opinion, one of the important keywords of this budget is that it reduces child poverty. Another very important change is that the government coalition has taken a clear direction towards increasing the incomes of families in economic difficulties. In 2016, the subsistence limit will rise from the current €90 to €130, while the same rate of €130 will apply to children when calculating income support. It is also a rise in the highest level of subsistence in the last ten years. In the view of the Socialists, it is particularly important that I emphasise once again that the number of children living in poverty is decreasing. I think this is a budgetary priority for a normal social rule of law, because who are we working for if not for the children? It is certainly not possible to close your eyes to the fact that a large number of our employees are struggling with the underemployment and, as we know, the talks about the minimum wage are currently stuck. In this financial year and in the next financial year, we will certainly stand for the minimum wage to rise by at least 10% each year. Pensions are the largest but the most important item in the budget. The 2016 pension increase will take place at the highest level currently permitted by the state's financial means. In April, the average old-age pension is expected to rise from EUR 375 to EUR 396 per month, or 5.5%. The EUR 20 pension supplement, which is over 300 kroons in the old currency, will certainly support our elderly. We have made sure that the average old-age pension continues to be tax-free. At the beginning of autumn, the government decided to allocate EUR 7.6 million to Estonian dairy producers and pig farmers in difficulty, of which three million euros will remain in the coming year. These EUR 7.56 million will certainly also help... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U24	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U25	... which Estonia receives as emergency assistance from the European Union. There is no need to reduce the importance of the financial mechanism set up by the Rural Promotion Foundation to provide farmers with more flexible and preferential loans in the future. We are talking about a ten million euro cash injection. This was one of the points for which the Social Democrats stood in the process of supplementing the coalition agreement during the summer. In important areas of the public sector, workers' wages are rising, but certainly not to the extent that we would like to. The financial situation has forced us to make choices. However, in those areas where it is essential, wage increases will come. Certainly, many sectors of the public sector deserve a higher wage increase, but wages must unfortunately be raised in several places at the expense of internal resources. In both cultural and, for example, internal security, this could mean quite the opposite processes: a reduction in staff and greater demands could lead to a failure to perform essential functions. Here we, as Parliament, need a balanced monitoring of the activities of the executive. In the view of the Socialists, the 2016 budget is a solidarity budget that increases the cohesion of society and the human and its well-being. This budget will help vulnerable and weaker members of society. But we recognise that this does not solve many of the problems and concerns that Estonia is facing. At the same time, I dare to confirm that the current tax system, unfortunately, does not allow a better budget to be put together. A number of issues, such as the increase in the tax-free minimum, will also require much more attention in the coming years. Our coalition partners have promised to take into account and give priority to our proposals made this year in the process of supplementing the coalition agreement when drawing up the country's budgetary strategy for the coming years. None of the budgetary plans, including those that are in our hands today, are ideal and not complete. We in the Riigikogu will certainly be able to improve it and specify it, even at the expense of our sleeping hours, but it is better to do so during the day. Dear ambassadors, I wish us substantive and important debates and work and warm autumn! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U26	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U27	Let's move on to the second item. The first reading of draft 95 of the Riigikogu decision "Construction of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe' proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs begins. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U28	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As I am sure those of you who were in this Chamber last week will remember, the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs launched the draft before you on 21 September. The Bureau then set the deadline for tabling amendments on 22 September at 13 a.m. As in the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs just an hour later, to our great surprise, but also some relief, no amendments to this draft were received. To refresh your memory, I say that the Social Democratic Party Group has proposed to appoint Marianne Mikko and the Conservative People's Party of Estonia as the head of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in place of Hannes Hanso who has left the Riigikogu today, to appoint Mr Mart Helme as an alternate member. Having established that no amendments had been tabled, the Committee on Foreign Affairs decided on 22 September to propose to the Bureau that the draft decision be placed on the agenda of the plenary session today, 29 September, the Committee on Foreign Affairs appointed Sven Mikser as rapporteur at first reading and also proposed that the draft be put to the final vote and adopted as a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U29	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. No amendments to bill 95 have been received. The proposal of the lead committee is to put the draft to a final vote at first reading. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Good colleagues, I'm gonna put a bill 95 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 76 members of the Riigikogu, there are no respondents or abstentions. Draft 95 of the Riigikogu decision "Construction of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe', submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has been adopted as a decision. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U30	Let's move on to the third item. The first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of the Estonian Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation" submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu as Vice Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee Enn Eesmaa!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U31	Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the Committee on Foreign Affairs submitted another draft decision on 21 September. Its content was now reminded you of the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. The content of the amendment to the decision 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation' is briefly that we wish to exclude Marianne Mikko, an alternate member of the delegation, and to appoint Sven Mikser as an alternate member of the delegation in his place. We proposed that the Management Board of the Riigikogu put the draft 94 on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday 29 September. Our proposal is to put the draft to a final vote and to adopt it as a decision. Enn Frontland, on the Commission's decision at first reading, is the rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U32	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? No, it's not. I thank the waitress! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. No amendments to the 94th draft have been tabled. The Governing Commission's firm position has been to put this draft decision to a final vote at first reading. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Good colleagues, I'm going to put a 94th draft to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. By a convincing majority of 71 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions have been adopted as 94 decisions in the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the 'Constitution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation' submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U33	Let's move on to item number four. The first reading of the draft 91 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Institutions' by the Social Democratic Party Group begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Andres Anvelt, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democratic Party has initiated a draft to amend the Riigikogu decision 'establishing a special committee on the supervision of security authorities'. Our proposal is to amend the decision of the Riigikogu of 7 May 2015 to set up a special committee for the supervision of security authorities and to appoint Kalev Kotkas as a member of the special committee for the supervision of security authorities in place of Hardi Volmer. The amendment is due to the fact that the mandate of a member of the Hardi Volmer Riigikogu has now expired and the mandate of a member of the Kalev Kotkas Riigikogu has begun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U35	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Martin Kuke, Member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, will present the speech of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U36	Good Chairman!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U37	I'm sure we'll welcome him!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U38	Ladies and gentlemen, This point was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its meeting on 28 September and was supported by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U39	I apologize to the waitress! This is not a practice for us, but should we ask for a deadline for tabling amendments?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U40	The deadline for submitting amendments was 15 minutes after the end of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 29 September. This decision was also taken in a consensual manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U41	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading must be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 91 amendments to the draft, please be quick. 15 minutes after the end of today's sitting. The first reading is closed and the fourth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U42	Let's move on to item five. This is the first draft of Ri Riig members Aadu Must, Ain Lutsse, Andrei Novikka Luis, Andres Ammas, Andres Anvelt, Andres Anvelt, Andres Herkel, Andres Metsoja, Arno Silla, Artur Talve, Dmitr Talvik, Dmitr Dmitr Dmitri Dmitri Dmitriyjeev, Einar Vallbaumi, Enn Eesmaa, Erki Savisaare, Hemar Len, Hemar Len, Heljo Pikhof, Heljo Küti, Henn Küt, Henn Põõõõllias, Ivari Padari, Jaak Madison, Jaanus Karil, Juhan Parts, Jüri Adams, Kadri Sims, Kadri, Jüri Adams, Kadri Sims, Kadri Sims, Kadri Simsari, Jüri Adams, Kadri, Kadri Sims, Kadri Simseri, Jüri, Kadri Simseri, Kadri Smsi, Kadri Smsi, Kadri Sms, Kadri Smsi, Kadri Sims, Kadri, Kadri Kadri Kadri Kadri Kadri, Kadri, Kadri Karmi, Kasssssssssss, Kass, Kas, Kas, Kass, Kassssssssssss, Kassssssssssssssss, Kas, Kasssss, Kasssss, Kermi, Kermi, Ker, Kermi, Kermi, Ker, Ker, Ker, Ker, Ker, Ker, Ker, Ker, Ker, Ker, Ker, Ker, Ker, Ker, Ker, Ker, Ker, Ker, Ker, Ker, Ker, Kersssssssssssssssssssssssss, Ker, Ker, Kerssssss, Kers, Kersssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss, Ker Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu Artur Talvik, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U43	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I don't have much to talk about. 52 delegates have initiated a draft decision of the Riigikogu in order to set up a committee of inquiry. I am convinced that there would have been more, as was the case later. I have been to defend this bill in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. What the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided will be discussed by the next waitress. But it seemed that the main questions were answered, so the decision was generally consensual. I would like to stress that this is not a duplication of research institutions and investigators, I mean, the prosecution office and the kapo job. This was also well understood by Lavly Perling, who, as a representative of the prosecutor's office, was present at the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The main reason for setting up this committee of inquiry is the exceptionally high public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U44	Good waitress, thank you! You have questions. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You mentioned that Lavly Perling, as a state prosecutor, realized that law enforcement would not be duplicated. Did the representative of the initiators realise that the duties of this committee of inquiry should be seriously clarified in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U46	That's exactly what I didn't understand, and Lavly didn't pay attention to it, as I understand it. On the contrary, he said that the Committee of Inquiry was very good to keep our tails and horns from collapsing, he had such an expression. I imagine that when a committee of inquiry is set up, we will pay great attention to it and remember that the tail and horns should not run together.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U47	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U48	There is, however, some confusion in the title. I read: '... to investigate the measures necessary to prevent corruption and similar incidents in the management'. There is no plural on the word 'corruption'; compatibility leaves to be desired. The title does not, nor does it understand what the Commission is going to do. My question is this: Can't the tongue of this land in the wind of song, when it ascends to heaven, search for eternity for itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U49	Thank you for your excellent question. If the investigation of corruption is a search for eternity, then that's the way Mr. People's Envoy would take it. In my opinion, corruption or the eradication of corruption from society are more a matter of security than of searching for eternity.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U50	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U51	Thank you, manager. Good Commission waitress! I congratulate you on coming up with such an initiative. But when I look at the deadline of 1 May 2016, the question arises as to whether you can examine it all. Today, another 2.8 million euros have been found, a total of seven million. Do you still have the will and the strength to bring all this here to the Riigikogu, so that we can find out who politicians are involved in these transactions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U52	Thank you for your question. The issue of will and force is likely to be addressed to the committee to be set up and to its members. However, the Home and Rules of Procedure Act also provides for the possibility to extend the time limit if necessary. So I hope that when this committee is set up it will not have to extend the deadline and that the Commission will be able to act intensively thanks to the exceptional public interest. But if necessary, the deadline will be extended.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U53	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U54	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I fully agree with you that corruption must be eradicated from the country, but since you started the process of initiating this draft, there have been a number of possible cases of corruption in the media. Do you not think that the work of this committee should be extended to all cases of corruption rather than to just one case? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U55	The Home and Rules of Procedure Act provides that committees of inquiry must deal with a relatively narrow and precise issue. In this sense, an extension could be made so that the Commission that is being set up would deal with the management of state-owned enterprises at all and make proposals to amend it. This could be the subject of the report. It may happen that the Commission's work is dissipating, and we are finally not getting anywhere. It's a big job.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U56	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U57	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, There are not many large state companies in Estonia. If the Riigikogu forms a commission of inquiry for the Port of Tallinn of AS, then perhaps the idea is that we immediately start with other companies in order to form a company in the same way, especially, say, Estonian Air, let's say, the company was operating.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U58	I don't... I lost it. Please, can you repeat that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U59	Please hand over the microphone to the Valeri Korb so he can clarify his question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U60	I mean, maybe in the Riigikogu, we are making up other anti-corruption committees that are connected with other public authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U61	At the moment, there are no important indications that there have been similar cases in other public authorities. The case of the Port of Tallinn is the most extraordinary, as can be read from the press and as we have learned from the research institutions. I hope that the Committee of Inquiry will also give a slightly broader overview of other public authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U62	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U63	Thank you. Good waitress! This Commission is, of course, extremely needed; there is a need for it. But I remember right now that with the VEB Foundation Commission, there was a lot of research and interesting material coming out, but it happened that when its leader went to the coalition, all this stuff stopped and we didn't get any more data, nothing was made public and basically this committee went public. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U64	I will comment in this way that, firstly, as of today, we do not know who will be the head of the Committee of Inquiry. We also really do not know whether or not there will be a coalition exchange during the year. My personal hope is that this committee will not be a 'political show' place, but will deal with it. The purpose of initiating this draft was for this committee to be "across the everyday party policy." I really hope it's like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U65	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U66	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! As one of the initiators, I certainly support this draft decision and support the setting up of a committee of inquiry. You will remember that, when there was a debate in the committee, Heili Sepp, who had been invited to the committee, said that, but why this is what the committee of inquiry really needs, maybe it should be a committee of problems. Perhaps you will explain, as a representative of the initiators, why you and the initiators believe that a committee of inquiry is needed, not some other Commission option.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U67	Thank you for your question. I was personally amazed that the Chancellor of Justice's advisor had come to the Riigikogu or the MPs to write down what kind of commission to set up. This seriously surprised him, although he stressed that it was only his thinking. However, it was still apparent from the further debate that perhaps the honourable Chancellor of Justice's advisor did not fully understand the difference between the Committee on Problems and the Committee on Inquiry. To clarify, the Committee of Inquiry has considerably more rights, the Committee of Inquiry can'sanction', it can invite people to question and so on, referring to wrongdoing. That's the point of the committee of inquiry. Basically, there is a special anti-corruption committee, but the special committee has a completely different idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U68	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U69	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Arthur, I have a provocative question. I, too, was the initiator of the commission of inquiry. You had a great saying that it was precisely a human-made organisation, not a political one, but a political one. In every way, a very sensible and very, very cool thing. Now I'm asking a provocative question. If there's a big guy, two metal cases will be put on the table, and he'll say, Artur Talvik, put that thing in the closet, so what's Artur Talvik gonna do?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U70	I'll put them in the closet when I'm told. [[Laughing.]] The only question is what's in the case. You're telling me I'm getting an offer I can't give up. Once again, Märt, I would like to stress that this Committee of Inquiry has not yet been set up, that the members of this committee are not known to us today, and that neither is the head of the Committee of Inquiry known to us. How much someone's gonna offer, I don't know. But there are all kinds of bags, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U71	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U72	Thank you. I want to clear up some inaccuracies. Two people took part in the committee as specialists, namely Lavly Perling and Heili Sepp. They cannot propose that the Commission make one change or another. As specialists, they expressed opinions that criminal proceedings and the activities of the Committee of Inquiry, as the rapporteur said, would not conflict with the cross between skis and horns. So, please, let us be precise in our questions and opinions. But now the question. You mentioned for a moment that this Commission could have a slightly wider scope for action, perhaps it could also explore the management systems of other public authorities, so that they would be as free from the risk of corruption as possible. So, do you agree with that idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U73	At least in the conclusions, there should certainly be a greater generalisation than the Port of Tallinn alone. That is what the title says: to prevent such cases in the future. I agree with you that the two ladies mentioned above were experts in the Commission. The question is how they put forward their proposals, perhaps something went a little wrong there. They made suggestions, and then they pulled back a little bit. Maybe it was a style question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U74	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U75	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! I would just like to remind you that the VEB Foundation Committee of Inquiry was also: a great deal of press conferences were given and very much was brought to the public's attention, but the results were still classified and the public didn't have any use for it. The second thing is whether there is a clear plan as to whether the work of the Committee of Inquiry is public and traceable or whether comprehensive protocols are being drawn up. Do you have a strong conviction that we will still publish the results in May 2016?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U76	Once again, I'm here as one of the initiators of the bill. This question was now such as if I were already in the chair of this Commission. If that happens, my own goal is to make this work as public as possible. On the other hand, the final report of the VEB Fund would allow you, as a vigilante, to get to know each other right away. Please! Excessive secrecy is too much in Estonian society, transparency or, say, lack of transparency is an important issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U77	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U78	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Arthur, I am very pleased that the establishment of our committee of inquiry has disturbed Kalle Laanet. [[Laughing.]] I wanted to ask you how much negative impact or obstruction you, as a wise and experienced man from the Reform Party, expect, to interfere, I mean.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U79	I don't know, the Reform Party has claimed that there were people among them who were willing to sign the bill. I would like to stress once again that I do not want this committee to become such a tool for daily political chemistry, but that it is still investigating things that are a serious problem in our society and looking for solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U80	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U81	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I am interested in the level of disclosure of the sittings of this committee of inquiry. These steps can be imagined in the right number. Perhaps you remember that only recently in this Riigikogu we discussed whether the protocols of Riigikogu committees and all this work are public or classified, it is an intermediate stage. Very often, then, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for example, we thought that if it were absolutely public, many people who are coming to the Commission might not talk to the end of everything they know or would like to say. I believe that this possibility is even greater in the work of the Committee on Inquiry. Doesn't it seem to you that "full disclosure" up to live broadcasts should still be avoided?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U82	I don't know what to say. The committee of inquiry is able to hold completely public hearings, but whether it is wise or not in terms of the final outcome of the investigation, it is up to the Commission to decide. Certainly, in some cases, the wider public is good, in some cases, as you yourself mentioned, it is reasonable to conduct an interrogation behind 'closed doors'. It is a question of balance, so that these procedural things do not break the end result.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U83	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Currently, no member of the Reform Party has the signature of the former Director General of the Defence Police, Raivo Aeg, which is part of the coalition, among the 52 signatures. Several colleagues in the Reform Party have said that they would have been happy to sign too. But I'm asking if you didn't pay attention to the Reform Party if there weren't any signatures. Why aren't they there?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U85	Thank you for your question. I have to say, it's my fault, frankly. I may have been in contact with two members of the Reform Party who did not sign, but after that it became clear that there were candidates to sign there. I don't know if everyone would have wanted to, but there's a part. Once again, I say that this is a broad-based or broad-based approach. There are definitely supporters in the Reform Party. I don't see a big problem with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U86	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U87	I'm listening and wondering. Actually, I'm also a member of the Special Anti-Corruption Commission, but I never got the list so I could have taken a stand. What was the reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U88	This is not at all the subject of the Special Committee on Corruption. This draft came as an initiative by specific delegates, the first of which were Jüri Adams and I. Me and a couple of advisors went to the vigilante with this paper. That's your answer, Ants.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U89	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U90	Thank you. Good waitress! I actually wanted to congratulate you, Arthur, for honestly answering Mr. Ernits' question and saying that too many of the members of the Reform Party were not asked for these signatures, even though there were supporters. They didn't ask me either. I am glad you said that there were really supporters among us, and you almost apologized for not asking for the signatures from our group.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U91	Question, please! Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Please report to Andres Anvelt, Member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U92	Mr President! Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. I have the honour to present the debate on the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, which took place on Tuesday 22 September and lasted an hour and ten minutes. Apart from the members and officials of the Commission, as mentioned earlier, Mr Talvik, the representative of the initiators of the draft, Mr Lavly Perling, the State Attorney General, and Mr Heili Sepp, the Head of the Legal Order Protection Department of the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice, took part in the meeting of the Commission. Now, from the course of the debate. The debate was quite long and emotional. The representative of the initiators of the draft act first explained to the Commission the proposal contained in the draft proposal to set up the Riigikogu Research Committee and all related considerations to investigate the management of the Port of Tallinn. He pointed out that the Committee of Inquiry did not wish to interfere with the work of the investigative bodies but, above all, wanted to deal with what was not dealt with by the prosecutor's office, i.e. it wanted to deal with the issue of political responsibility. After all, the Port of Tallinn is a 100% state-owned company with political leadership and high public interest, which is why the drafters consider the creation of a committee of inquiry to be mandatory. The draft has been signed by 52 Members, which shows that it is a draft initiated by political groups and MPs. As regards the draft, it was noted that there were no signatures from the members of the Reform Party Group, because there was a lack of time to talk to the few representatives of the Reform Party. This was mentioned in Artur Talvik's speech. Later, some members of the Reform Party Group have said that they would have signed the draft if possible. It is therefore a 'cross-groups' draft' which shows that there is a broad political interest in setting up a committee of inquiry. That is when the State Attorney General and the Chancellor of Justice presented their observations on the content and text of the draft. The representative of the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice pointed out that the separation of powers should be clearly monitored in the draft. It has been said throughout the bill that corruption has been investigated, which may give the impression that the Riigikogu Research Committee has taken on the task of investigating the crime, but it is the task of the judicial authority. He noted that the commentary on the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu clearly stated that it would be objectionable if the name or activities of the committee referred to the investigation of the breach of law. In his opinion, it would be a more problem-free solution to set up a committee of inquiry instead of a committee of inquiry, pursuant to § 21 of the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act, since the main aim is to investigate the problem and not the events. It must also be ensured that the draft text does not infringe the principle of presumption of innocence. If the legislative authority has clearly stated that corruption has taken place, although the Court has not yet done so, the defendants may later claim in legal proceedings that the state has violated their presumption of innocence very strongly. The State Attorney General pointed out that it was considered that parliamentary committees could contribute to criminal investigations into major corruption cases across Europe. He also confirmed that he had to make sure that the activities of the branches of power did not cross and did not interfere with each other's work. He pointed out three keywords when discussing the potential risks associated with the bill: separation of powers, presumption of innocence and wording. In his view, it makes no sense for Parliament to investigate corruption, as corruption is a crime that is being prosecuted. The Attorney General directed the formation of the Commission to think beyond its objective. He considered that the aim could be to examine the control of the management of the Port of Tallinn in order to avoid the risk of corruption in the future and to shape a governance model that would balance the company's profit-making activities and the strategic interests of the state. This means examining how the management was managed, who was supervised and how it was monitored, how the board was actually reported to the board, how the supervision of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications was carried out and whether internal control was involved in the Council's activities. All of this can't and can't be investigated by the DA's office. As regards the governance of state companies, the Attorney General proposed the formation of an audit of the members of the Board of Directors of the company by involving some of the members of the Board of Directors in the day-to-day management of the company. This would create a view of the board alongside the board's view. The Attorney General added that, in view of the presumption of innocence, he would not dare to use the wording 'criminal corruption' in the draft. The representative of the initiators of the bill stressed that it is the setting-up of a committee of inquiry that attaches importance to the creation of a committee of inquiry, as the committee of inquiry has more rights in examining the problem than other committees of the Riigikogu. Artur Talvik has already spoken about the difference between the Committee of Inquiry and the Committee of Problems, so I am not going to repeat that. The aim is also to examine not the same thing as the investigation authorities, but the political impact of the corruption case. The members of the Commission heard the explanations and expressed their views on the draft. Among other things, a number of assumptions regarding the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry were highlighted and discussed. In particular, for example, whether the decision to set up a committee of inquiry must clearly specify the purpose and scope of the investigation. Parliament does not interfere with the competence of any other constitutional institution, and it is problematic to refer to a breach of law in the name and duties of the committee of inquiry in the absence of a judgment in force. The opinion was expressed that the presumption of innocence is problematic in the draft. The drafter was proposed to go to first reading as amended by replacing the text of the draft with the wording 'potential corruption'. The State Attorney General stated that he was not sure whether such a change of wording would solve the problem. As a member of the Commission, if I am not mistaken, I have set out the parallel with the use of the word 'corruption' in anti-corruption law. According to § 9 (1) of this section, the Special Committee against Corruption of the Riigikogu also discusses and evaluates potential corruption cases of high officials. I therefore considered that the term 'potential cases of corruption' could also be used in this bill, as this text of the law regulating the work of the Riigikogu is already being used. The word "corruption" was also discussed in the legal and general languages. A representative of the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice stated that the legislator could use this word within the meaning of the Penal Code. Several members of the committee expressed the opinion that the establishment of a committee of inquiry would enable the investigation of the problem to be dealt with more effectively than through other committees of the Riigikogu. It was also thought that setting up a problem committee would not be correct on this issue, as the commission of inquiry would be set up to examine the circumstances of an event of public interest and it would certainly be an event of public interest that took place in the Port of Tallinn. It was found that the name and tasks of the committee should be considered in such a way that the Riigikogu would not assume powers that the Riigikogu's committee of inquiry really should not have and cannot fulfil. One of the possible wordings of the Commission's objective was that the Commission would be set up to find out the facts of a possible corruption incident at the Port of Tallinn in order to determine how the Supervisory Board and the Management Board were working and, if necessary, to bring parallels with other state companies. The representative of the initiators of the bill was asked whether he had a vision that could be changed in the management of the Port of Tallinn and whether ownership should also be changed in order to avoid such situations in the future. A representative of the initiators of the draft act replied that he was not in favour of the abolition of public undertakings, rather of greater control over them and increased accountability on the boards. However, he added that this view could change during the investigation. A Member of the Commission found it difficult to investigate political responsibility, but noted that problems in governance models exist and potential risks of corruption should be investigated. However, this concerns not only the Port of Tallinn, but all the state-owned companies and foundations, and this topic should be dealt with more widely. A representative of the initiators of the draft act stated that the comment of the Home and Working Procedures Act stated that the purpose of the committee of inquiry should be as specific as possible. The Commission is based on the most acute and most important problem of public interest, but the objective is broader and a comparative analysis with other Councils could certainly be carried out. The members of the committee also indicated that the work of the committee of inquiry should be as public as possible. Several members of the Commission confirmed that they would have liked to have signed the draft if possible. The chairman of the committee noted that the members of the committee were unanimous that it was necessary to set up a committee of inquiry. Now I'm going to go to procedural decisions. At the end of the Commission's debate, it was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 29 September, including today (consensually), that the first reading be closed (consensually), and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 9 October 2015 (also a consensual decision). It was decided to appoint Mr Andres Anvelt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (also a consensual decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U93	Good waitress, thank you! You have questions. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U94	Thank you, manager. Good colleague Andres, you are one of the initiators of the bill. As is known, the CPO and the DA's office are investigating possible corruption and these transactions, and a new Commission is now being set up. What can be the employment relationship and subordination relationship between the former and the new Commission? Is the kapo and the prosecutor's office disturbed that this commission will be formed, or is the committee set up by the Riigikogu entitled to invite them to report on how the investigation has progressed? How do you coordinate cooperation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U95	Thank you. Yes, it is always important for the various authorities to be separated. First of all, all Riigikogu committees, such as the Special Committee on Corruption and the Committee on Inquiry that is being set up, are completely independent of each other in their activities; they are accountable to the same Riigikogu plenary. As far as cooperation with investigative authorities is concerned, the same rule applies here that all representatives of the state, and not just representatives of the state, are also obliged to come to the Committee of Inquiry, which is one of the most significant differences compared to the Special Committee on Corruption, for example. It is clear, however, that there are certain rules in criminal proceedings on which we have adopted a law, such as those that can or cannot be spoken by the judge, and this may be the point. It certainly does not interfere with the way the criminal prosecutor talks or reports to any committee, either a special committee or a committee of inquiry, about the conduct of the investigation in general terms, such as the time frame, etc. However, in investigations, we ourselves have restricted ourselves, and I think that we have done the right thing in separating the same authorities so that we, as legislator, are not able to intervene directly in the criminal proceedings on the ground. We can intervene in this as a general process, i.e. as a procedure in a wider way, but not in a single procedure in particular.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U96	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U97	Thank you. You talked for quite a while about the legal problem in the title, and also about the idea that one of the ideas was to present this bill to the first reading in a modified form. Why was this not done and what was the outcome of this debate in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U98	Thank you. That is a very relevant question. Firstly, we wanted the Committee of Inquiry to work faster. After the completion of the first reading, it is much better and faster to improve the draft and make changes there, in cooperation with the representative of the initiators. Before the first reading, we should have basically re-opened this process with all 52 initiators, which is why we would have postponed it all over and over again. I think this was done purely for the purpose of an operational response.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U99	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U100	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! This remote control has been repeatedly warned today that the Committee of Inquiry must not interfere with the work of the investigative bodies. Please give a practical example of how the Committee of Inquiry can interfere with the work of the investigating bodies.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U101	Thank you. I have nowhere to take these practical examples. I was a member of the previous Riigikogu in two committees of inquiry, both on the VEB Foundation commission and on the residence permit committee, but I never saw opposition or coalition policy as malicious action by a member of the committee against the investigative bodies. It's perfectly normal. Surely such steps will be possible if you learn some sort of procedural secret and rush it to the media, rather than being made ignorant. But it hasn't happened. In fact, I am pleased to say that, as well as this last Commission discussion and previous committees of inquiry, we are a normal, well-functioning rule of law in which different authorities, whether it is executive, legislative or judicial, respect each other and respect each other's actions with respect and respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U102	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U103	Good manager! Waitress! Perhaps you remember that in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs we had a debate in which the beautiful ladies with the background of the prosecutor's office said that maybe you should think a little about using the word 'corruption', because the European Court of Human Rights may then start to point the finger at the legislator. In the meantime, I asked the future judge of state, Peter Roosma, who has worked there for a long time in court, whether such a fingertip might come. To my colleagues, he said, "I don't think so."
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U104	Thank you. I can assure you that this is the same principle of separation of powers again. They were concerned and expressed this; it is now up to us not to be discouraged, but to act as we see the way in which this concern is resolved. That's it. We need to understand their problem. Now, if you construct it in the sense that the state is talking about a specific corruption case that has already taken place, for example, in one format, or in a legislative investigation committee and in another format, i.e. neither the executive nor the judicial authorities have yet reached this same decision, then there can indeed be a serious problem and conflict in terms. I think it is better not to invade each other, let us say, the meadows, both for the sake of the efficiency of the future committee of inquiry and for the sake of ensuring that this criminal procedure can be completed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U105	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 88 should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting 88 amendments. 9 October 2010 at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the fifth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U106	Let's move on to item six. The first reading of the Act on the Election of a Local Government Council initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the related amendment of the law 42 begins. Mr Andre Sepa, Member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, would like to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U107	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you at first reading the draft law 42 initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Draft 42 is presented for first reading as amended. The amendment of the Local Government Council Election Act and related laws is intended to amend the two sections of the Local Government Council Election Act. Paragraph 5 (1) is amended and worded as follows: the right to vote is for an Estonian citizen and a citizen of the European Union who has reached the age of 16. Paragraph 5 of the same section, which provides for a right to stand as a candidate from the age of 18 and § 46 (2) concerning the right to vote in advance, as well as the right to vote from the age of 16. The law is supplemented by one section, namely the "Notification obligation'. It determines the number of persons who have data for a person aged 16 to 17 who is to be declared incapacitated for the purposes of the right to vote and who are obliged to report it. The Population Register Act, which is also linked to the declaration of incapacity in the sense of the right to vote of a person aged 16 to 17, as well as the Code of Civil Procedure, which provides for the appointment of a guardian to a minor person and the declaration of incapacity for the purpose of the right to vote of a minor person, are also amended. I will brief you briefly on the progress of the draft procedure. On 13 August this year, the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia entered into force, according to which persons who are at least 16 years old and who are permanently resident on the territory of the municipality will be entitled to vote under the conditions laid down in the Local Government Election Act. It follows from § 156 (2) of the Constitution. In order to bring the Local Government Council Election Act into line with the above-mentioned provision of the Constitution, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs initiated. A draft law amending the Local Government Council Election Act on 25 May, which is now before you. The Government of the Republic gave its opinion on the draft s. a On 3 July, it was pointed out that, in addition to the Local Government Council Election Act, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Population Register Act also need to be amended. Constitutional Commission, discussed draft 42 of its s. At the session of 15 and 21 September, the Riigikogu decided, on the basis of the provisions of § 98 of the Law on Home and Working Procedures, to submit the draft law amending the Act on the Election of Local Government Council as amended, as the amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure and Population Register Act annexed to the original text of the draft act is essentially related to the draft law amending the Act on the Election of Local Government Council, and it is therefore reasonable to make these amendments to the draft text already at first reading. Without additional provisions, this regulation would not be comprehensive. I will also give an overview of the discussions on the draft law at the meetings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. On 15 September, we discussed the procedure for the declaration of incapacity in the sense of electoral rights and the related matters. The representative of the Ministry of Justice who was present at the proceedings explained that a draft regulation had been drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which provided that the provisions for the appointment of guardians to an adult person and not the provisions for the appointment of guardians to a minor person should apply. The grounds for the appointment of a guardian to an adult and a minor differ, as the capacity of the minor is limited by reason of his or her age and the guardian is only assigned to the person if he or she does not have parents. Among other things, it was found that the proposed regulation imposes an additional obligation on the parent of a mentally ill child aged 16 to 17 to inform his or her child of his or her reduced capacity and, if the child reaches the age of 18, the whole procedure will have to be re-examined. There was a debate on this. Members of the Commission were also interested in the number of persons who should be deprived of their right to vote under this regulation and the number of guardians assigned to adults today. It asked how long the process of determining the guardian might take and examined the costs involved. The Commission found that there were still quite open questions in the draft, and that is why we decided to proceed consensually in the next session. However, it was decided to appoint a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Sepp speaking before you. At the next meeting, we received answers to the questions raised. According to the data received from the Ministry of Social Affairs, according to the disability expertise of the Social Insurance Board, there were 16 to 17-year-olds on 1 January who had been the subject of a serious and deep mental disorder and/or mental disability decision, which was valid, 417. According to data from the Ministry of the Interior, there are 121956 voters in municipal elections aged 18 to 25, and there are 497 persons without voting rights, which makes the average number of these two annual visits 124. The representative of the Ministry of Justice explained the question of how much time it would take for the procedure for the declaration of invalidity within the meaning of the right to vote. The answer was that it would take 70 to 72 days. In the Commission's view, it was also very important in the draft explanatory memorandum to stress the fact that, if a person aged 16 to 17 has already been the subject of an examination for incapacity for service, it is not necessary to re-do it in the procedure for determining the guardian after he has reached the age of age and the Court can take into account the results of the expert examination already carried out. The Commission also expressed the view that the procedure for declaring a person of 16 to 17 years of age incapacitating in the sense of the right to vote should not be conducted through a court of law; this was the hypothetical option that we have put forward, but could, for example, be a public administration or be entrusted to a public administration. However, several members of the committee, as well as specialists present, drew attention to the fact that, since § 57 (2) of the Constitution provides that the right to vote is not an Estonian citizen who has been recognised by the court and has only been incapacitated by the court, the procedure must also be conducted only by a court, which may, to a certain extent, increase the workload of the court. The members of the Commission also made proposals. I would add that the amendments have been developed in cooperation with the officials of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, namely Indrek Niklus, Head of the Department of Private Law at the Ministry of Justice, Stella Johanson, Adviser to the Department of Private Law at the Ministry of Justice, and Mairis Kungla, Deputy Head of the Department of Population Operations at the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the field of law. At the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 21 September, procedural decisions were also taken: we proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 29 September, i.e. today (consensually), that the first reading should be closed (consensually) and that the deadline for tabling amendments should be set in s. 13 October at 5.15 p.m. (also consensually). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U108	Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U109	Thank you. At the meetings of the Commission where we discussed the draft 42, this issue was not raised. However, it is probably possible to do so at a different level in other committees. As a representative of the originator, I think this discussion could take place at all levels.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U110	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U111	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, This is a law that has been passed in fresh blood. During the amendment of this law, the Centre Party was critical of many questions. For example, we do not believe that the amendment of the Constitution should be carried out very lightly and without consideration. Now we are going to change this law again, we have just adopted it, and we are about to change it. Isn't this a legislative cull? And if it's a legislative flaw, who's responsible for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U112	Thank you. However, the 42nd draft law is an alignment of the law with the Constitution. In fact, the Constitution was amended in the course of two formations and it is now the task of the Riigikogu to bring existing laws into line with the Constitution, which the draft 42 clearly does.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U113	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U114	Thank you. Mr President, the representative of the initiator of the bill. The current Act states that every Estonian citizen with a right to vote has the right to apply for a local government council. With the amendment, you want to remove this right from the 16 and 17-year-olds you have just given the right to vote to. What is missing for 16 and 17-year-olds to choose, but not to apply? Until now, everyone who had the right to vote was entitled to apply.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U115	Thank you. The law in force provides that a person of election age has the right to stand as a candidate. The first paragraph of the same section sets out the age of selection, which in this case is still 18 years old. We wanted the new law to clearly spell out the 18th year of life, and so it stands here. So no one is discriminated against by the existing law or by this new initiative in the sense of the right to stand as a candidate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U116	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U117	Thank you. I have a question about these numbers. We learned from the Ministry of Social Affairs that there are over 400 such people. Later, we have received data on the number of 18-year-olds and older people in Estonia who have been deprived of their right to vote in all age groups, i.e. up to 100 years-olds, 3400. These figures don't match each other. One possibility is that the voting rights of older people have not been withdrawn from everyone that should have been taken from, or that the number of the Ministry of Social Affairs has been unduly increased for some reason, or that there is suddenly an error in both numbers. How do you think this thing really should come up and get a more accurate bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U118	Thank you. That is what we discussed together in the Commission. When the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs presented us with the bill, he stated that there is no clear view of those voters who have limited electoral rights and those who do not have the right to vote and to whom the guardian is appointed. The population register shall record the identity of the persons for whom a corresponding judgment has been issued. That's what the data was sent to us. The draft 42 deals with 16 to 17-year-olds. This figure is perhaps hypothetical and, in my opinion, as rapporteur and member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, its accuracy does not affect the purpose of amending the law. Therefore, the figures that have been submitted to us from the Ministry of Social Affairs should be accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U119	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U120	Thank you. I'll ask you again. What is the reason that 16 and 17-year-olds who have been given the right to choose local government councils and who are Estonian citizens are not allowed to apply? Why aren't they mature to apply?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U121	This draft issue was not dealt with and is currently based solely on the interpretation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U122	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U123	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! School people certainly know that 16 to 17-year-olds are mostly still basic school students or are just graduating from primary school. Right now, they're basically in sixth or seventh grade. What measures have you envisaged or see schools being able to carry out their basic work, or education, rather than dealing with the exclusion of political propaganda from schools? What are the measures or penalty rates, etc.? What is your understanding of this, and what will you do?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U124	Thank you. The perceptions can be different for politicians. Election activities, active electoral propaganda are regulated exactly as the existing laws require. If there is a different initiative and it is supported, it can be discussed. On the basis of practical practice, I personally feel that this is not such a troubled place. But if there are any problems, it is possible to discuss it. This bill does not deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U125	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U126	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! I will continue with the question of my colleague, Kadri Samson. You said that why the 16-year-olds should not be able to apply was not under discussion in the Commission. It is not true that this was not discussed. The Centre Party Group even put to the vote in committee whether or not to stand as a candidate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U127	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U128	You voted against the proposal to exclude this paragraph from the bill. What was your advantage, why shouldn't 16 to 17-year-olds apply?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U129	Corrections are always needed. But, as I said as representative of the initiators, the draft is before you at first reading as amended. Indeed, we initiated a draft 42 in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and afterwards the Government of the Republic drew attention to important issues that cannot be left unaddressed. There is a consensus between the representatives of the government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U130	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U131	Thank you, manager. Good colleague! I don't want to discuss any more whether it was right for 16-year-olds to vote or not, that we have already discussed here. But I ask you what happens if the Riigikogu does not bring the laws into line with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U132	Thank you, my good colleague. Then the Constitution is violated and the constitutional review process is initiated. As members of the Riigikogu, we all know this and feel our own responsibility. I hope that we will act in a coherent manner when we process this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U133	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U134	Thank you. I ask you, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, whether you are suggesting that all other laws comply with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U135	Thank you. This is our task and our responsibility to be consistent. This is also the case with the institutions that monitor it and bring possible shifts and contradictions to us from this Riigikogu panel.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U136	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Jüri Adams, representative of the Free Party Group of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U137	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is once again one of the cases where, because we have been deprived of the opportunity to participate in the negotiations at first reading by the Rules of Procedure Act, the representatives of the group kindly allowed me to use formally the time given to the group to express the thoughts that I really want to express on my behalf and which I have not coordinated with them. I start by saying that the point of first reading has traditionally been to get answers to two fundamental questions. Firstly, whether a law of this nature is needed in the country at all. Secondly, whether the proposed draft can be used as a basis for drafting the law. My answer to the first question is unconditionally yes: yes, this law is necessary. When a political decision was taken that local elections would be reduced by voting, the issue that has arisen must be resolved because there are people in the younger age group who have either a mental disorder or another mistake that should in principle not allow them to take part in the vote. This problem is solved for older people, not yet for younger ones. To the second question, whether this bill is the basis of the law, I will answer that, in principle, yes, but not best. My proposal is to give it a different, slightly simpler shape in the future procedure. I'm trying to explain what this is about. In the meantime, there was a question about why this age and not that age. Countries have very different age limits for giving young people different rights, but there are two most important limits. First of all, this age limit, when a person becomes an adult in the sense of civil law. That is, when he has the right to marry and the right to do anything with his property. Lawyers call it the right to dispose of property, which may even be that you can give all your property to a beggar and no one has the right to say that it should not have been done. This age limit is 18 years old. In addition, there is an age limit in each country when a person becomes an adult in a political sense. That's what we've had since we were 18 years old. But before World War II, for example, the border in Estonia was 21 years old. The situation is now that we give some political rights to people who are not adults within the meaning of the Civil Code. Yes, it is legally possible, but it must be viewed in accordance with the various other regulations. I understood that the people who initiated this amendment to the Constitution did not request that a person under 18 be granted the right to stand as a candidate, i.e. a passive right to vote. Next, the bill uses the expression "in the sense of the right to vote', but I also heard the expression "in the sense of the electoral law'. I think something's gotten mixed up here. This must have happened during the previous Riigikogu, when words taken from two different languages were confused. We have one vocabulary and a set of concepts in the Civil Code and another in the Laws of Public Law. The capacity to act falls within the scope of the Civil Code, the capacity to act is not a concept that falls under public law. So when we talk about capacity within the meaning of the electoral law, it might sound like a sentence that we are talking about the right to marry, for example, within the meaning of the Government of the Republic Act or the right to divorce, let's say, within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure of the President of the Republic. These are equally absurd sentences. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U138	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U139	What we are discussing here is not capacity within the meaning of the electoral law, but the name of this matter is voting rights. I call for the end of the academic euphemism that an Estonian lawyer once invented and which no one has used but him. Let's talk about it by its real name! The second question is what the Constitution tells us. That's a bit of a debatable question. You see, the Constitution says that a person loses his or her voting rights after he or she has been declared incapacitated by a court. He must be declared incapacitated to the extent that he is assigned a guardian with a full set of rights and obligations. It has become more and more apparent to me that we have discovered a constitution here, if not a cull, then at least a failed place. There are a number of places in our constitution where the authors of the text have not been able to unambiguously record what they want and have used a certain wording for short-lived purposes, expressing what through 'how' instead. The best-known example is in the local government chapter, where it is intended to express the idea that there is a one-tier local government in Estonia. It says that municipalities are cities and municipalities. That was a lot of trouble back in the day. Now we have a similar problem. In my opinion, the essence of the Constitution has been to say that the only serious basis for a person to be deprived of voting rights is when he has something in his head that is out of order. But it has not been better said, and the idea is formulated using the term "enabledness." However, the question arises as to how many papers should be passed on such young people in Estonia. This number is likely to be less than 100, and these young people are not 400 for these two vintage years, for example. What's it cost? It is estimated that one such case will cost EUR 1200. In my opinion, there is no point in starting to multiply this 1200 euros by 80 or 90. It would be easier to go some other way, for example, that in many other areas of life, this is how we declare voting rights lost to a whole group of young people meeting certain criteria and, at the same time, give their parents, who are their legal representatives, the opportunity to go to court and demand that such an administrative decision be declared null and void. It would be a much more rational and cheaper way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U140	Thank you. I ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group, Priit Toobali!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U141	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I dare say that Bill 42 is a genuine draft of deception, in many ways. This bill has been made in a politically technological way, with a cold count. There is very little to do with politics, worldview and the involvement of young people. When talking about granting the right to vote to the 16- to 17-year-olds, the main arguments were that this could bring more young people into politics, bring more young people into local decision-making, and that the proportion of young people in decision-making and shaping the future would be greater. The draft under discussion gives young people the right to vote, gives them the right to choose and choose existing, so-called old politicians. They ask for a vote, but they don't allow them to run for office, and they don't allow them to be part of the decision-making bodies. The draft of deception is also in the sense that it is said that, in this spirit, this draft has come before Parliament, that it is linked to the amendment of the constitution that Parliament has already taken up and decided on. It's partly true. Point 1 of the draft is indeed about the right to vote for those 16 or 17 years of age and older, but point 2 of the draft is already about the right to stand as a candidate and is not enshrined in the Constitution. So point 2 is not directly related to the amendment of the Constitution. I am not going to talk again about what comes with the right to vote for the 16- and 17-year-olds. These debates have already been abandoned and, unfortunately, the Constitution has been amended. If this has been done, I and the Centre Party Group believe that we should be honest with young people and allow them to stand as candidates. As this draft does not do so, the Centre Party Group proposes to reject the draft 42 at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U142	Yes, it was proposed in the Commission that § 5 (5) be deleted from the draft, and I did not agree with this proposal in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U143	Thank you. Good waitress! Did the Commission also discuss possible changes to school programmes that would give young people a better opportunity to be informed about social sciences?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U144	Thank you. Good waitress! I'll come back to Mr. Sults' question. After all, there are currently students in our general education schools who are 18 years old and therefore of age. Do you think the problem right now is that the electoral propaganda is awfully shoving into schools, or is it not? I haven't noticed that much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U145	Thank you. So am I. Indeed, there are currently 18-year-old students in general education schools who participate fully in the processes of law and responsibility in society. At the moment, this has not been particularly noted in the electoral practice that we should discuss this issue more widely here. As a member of several elections, in one role and in another, I have not noticed this. Rather, the question of the applicant's ethics arises here: how he behaves in general education schools, other social institutions, etc. This theme circle is actually wider.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U146	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U147	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I will ask once again Mr Toobal's question, which are the reasons why you did not allow people who are 16 or 17 years old to take part in municipal elections and represent your elderly. I didn't hear any reason why you voted against it from the last response.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U148	Thank you. I voted against because I have been a member of the last two Riigikogus, where discussions on the amendment of the Constitution took place and the decision was also formalised. On the basis of these discussions, I am internally convinced that the right to stand as a candidate would be justified from the age of 18. That's how I acted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U149	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U150	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I would like to draw attention to Mr Swan's complete failure. When an 18-year-old is studying in middle school, he must have been in a class for three years. That's the first thing. Don't confuse high school and middle school! I want to supplement Tanel Talve and say thank you. This bill is unprepared. I mean, you have to prepare your curriculum first, and then you can start doing something else. You're the one doing the reverse politics. People aren't being prepared, people are good faith and can be influenced. Isn't your bill made with the idea that as long as the kids don't understand it, you make them choose?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U151	Thank you. I would like to stress once again that the draft procedure has been initiated in accordance with the Constitution in force in the country. The right and duty of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was and is to bring existing legislation into line with the national constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U152	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U153	Thank you. It's very difficult to notice politicisation when you're dealing with it. That's my question. The explanatory memorandum states that, in particular, municipal or municipal government officials are obliged to report who are the 16-year-olds' competent voters and who are not. As we know, officials are often not independent of the political leadership, and one of the goals of the political leadership is certainly to remain in power. Since this concerns the Local Government Council Election Act, where is the guarantee of impartiality here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U154	Thank you. The hedging of the guarantee risk results from the attached § 30 "Notification obligation', where a circle of persons is defined which, according to the explanatory memorandum, is not final. The information requirement is a civil status institution or other government agency or municipality or city administration official, a police officer, head of a medical institution or welfare institution, a judge, a public prosecutor, a notary and a bailiff. This circle of persons has been greatly expanded here so that it is possible to avoid the risk that you have highlighted in your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U155	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U156	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! It is the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs who always like to say that all drafts need to be presented in a comprehensive manner and that the whole picture needs to be seen. But now it turns out you still don't want to see the whole picture. As Mr Winter's question turned out, you have unanalysed curricula and unprepared ones. You're acting a little like a rake right now: you want to get the voices of young people, but you don't want to teach young people to be responsible. Are you afraid of strengthening domestic policy competition, or what is the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U157	Thank you. These debates on the amendment of the Constitution have taken place in this Chamber. I won't be able to introduce this whole discussion for very long, there isn't enough time. Yes, I agree that the members of the Riigikogu, the elected MPs, must perceive the processes taking place in society and be able to analyse, bring out problems and find solutions. In the context of draft law 42, these discussions have essentially taken place and have been finalised into a decision. The process of alignment with the Constitution is now under way.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U158	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U159	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The explanatory memorandum to the draft law amending the Constitution stated that the conclusions of the analysis carried out by the Ministry of Justice prior to the adoption of the Act were that the reduction of the voting time would not lead to any change in other rights or obligations. We are now working on a change of rights and obligations. Can it be concluded that, at the time when the draft law amending the Constitution was being processed, the need for amendments pending today was not considered?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U160	Good waitress, you have questions. Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-29_U161	Good fellows! No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 42 be completed. However, there is another proposal that has just been handed over. The Estonian Central Party Group has proposed to reject the draft law amending the Local Government Council Election Act and related laws at first reading 42. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to vote against the draft proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group 42 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 29 votes to 42 members of the Riigikogu with 6 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The position of the commission is that the first reading must be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 42 (s). a 13 October at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the sixth item is also closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. Good luck in our work! Closure of the sitting at 12.36 p.m.
