ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-12_U1	Good morning, good fellows. We will start the 7th working week Thursday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries! Please, Mikhail Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-12_U2	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-12_U3	I'm sure we'll welcome Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-12_U4	I would like to welcome you to a beautiful Thursday morning. I've come here before you to hand over an inquiry from the members of the Central Party to the Minister of Enterprise, Liisa Oviir. The inquiry concerns the Development Fund. Not too long ago, the current head of the Development Fund came before us in this Chamber, who gave a good overview of the development fund's activities last year. Now we want to invite Liisa Oviir here to discuss her understanding of the activities and future of the Development Fund. In our inquiry, we asked a number of questions concerning the future and the past of the Development Fund. We want to know how he sees the activities of the Development Fund and what place he sees fit in the national system. We hope for very constructive cooperation and substantive answers. Thank you, and I'd like to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-12_U5	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Tamme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-12_U6	Very honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to hand over the second question to Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madis. The first time the Board of the Riigikogu thought it was not in accordance with the rules. This concerns the unjustified delay in the event of a border crossing. From 1 August 2011, the border crossing procedure between Estonia and Russia changed. Under the new procedure, the GoSwift information system for border crossings was established, which is used at the border crossing point of the Narva-Ivangorod, Koidula-Kunichina Gora and Luhamaa-Šumilkino highway. This means that when travelling to Russia, a person wishing to cross a border has an obligation to acquire a place in the queue of electronic border crossings, which must be paid for by means of an online environment of EUR 1 and 30 cents. In addition to the reservation fee for the queue, a waiting period is also required, depending on the waiting area and the vehicle category. Thanks to the electronic border ranking information system, border crossings are often not queued and there is no need to use waiting area services. It would be possible to cross the border without passing the waiting area, but once at the border crossing points there is such that a car destined for the waiting area can only be driven out of there if it has paid for a service that has not actually been used. The current law prohibits charging for the use of a waiting area for border crossings when the waiting area service is not used. In this regard, we have two questions for the Chancellor of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-12_U7	There's no more calls. Good fellows! I have adopted two inquiries on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further proceedings. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-12_U8	Let's go to today's agenda. The first and only item on the agenda is the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice to bring Article 30 (3) and (4) (3) of the VAT Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Allow me, before we begin, to briefly present the procedure for discussing this point. First of all, the Chancellor of Justice of Ülle Madise will have a presentation for up to 20 minutes, after which the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Kalle Laanet, will have a presentation for up to 20 minutes, and then the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Remo Holsmer, will also have a presentation for up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. Members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups may speak in the round of negotiations. Once the negotiations have been concluded, the President shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. A majority of votes in favour are required for the adoption of the proposal. It is my great honour to ask Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-12_U9	Honourable Riigikogu! As Mr President has already said, on 16 October I have requested that § 30 (3) of the VAT Act and section 4 (3) of the VAT Act be brought into line with the Constitution. These provisions are contrary to § 12 of the Constitution, i.e. the principle of equal treatment. The content of the problem. We have received a letter from an operator who offers a Community licence, which is one of the types of paid passenger transport licence, a hotel transfer and other passenger transport services with a mini-bus with nine seats. This undertaking considers that it is treated less favourably than the providers of taxi or large bus transport services when collecting VAT without justification. The result of this analysis is in front of you. I took the view that this undertaking was right. The fact is that when passengers are carried by taxi or large bus, the input VAT on the vehicle used for business and on the goods and services acquired for that purpose may be deducted in full. If, on the other hand, passengers are not carried by taxi or bus, but by a small bus, which is also a bus, they cannot. There is no logical, fair and compelling justification for such a difference in treatment, which means that this solution is contrary to the Constitution. We also found that this was also contrary to European Union law. Some of the other issues that have arisen in the various debates. First of all, we are only talking about those companies that have applied for authorisation to carry paid passengers. Secondly, the question has been raised as to why these operators who carry the so-called M1 minibus, i.e. 6 to 9-seater minibuses, do not apply for a taxi licence. The thing is, the taxi license is different. It is issued mainly by the municipality on the territory of that municipality or in such a way that the starting or ending point of the paid journey is within the territory of that municipality. In addition, a taximeter must be installed, other requirements for taxis must be met, but not for hotel transfers, for example. It is also the case that, under the same Community licence, small buses are carried out in the same way as large buses, and there is no logic that should force an undertaking to use a small bus instead of a small one to the extent that the small one is suitable for its business. We also thought about the dangers of abuse and felt that there were no serious risks of abuse. This is precisely because applying for a Community licence is, like applying for a taxi licence, time-consuming and costly. There are requirements for equity, training, financial position assessment, etc. Finally, of course, the topic of Taxify and Uber emerged in various discussions. These topics are currently dealt with by the Tax and Customs Board and the Ministry of Finance. These issues are not covered in this proposal and there are no risks of abuse of these technological solutions. I also thank the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for a thorough debate. Maybe I won't tell you any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-12_U10	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the Chancellor of Justice? There's one. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-12_U11	Your Honor, Chancellor! Recently, the Minister of Justice made a presentation here, one of which aimed to reduce the need for the adoption of new laws in Estonia. He meant that there wouldn't be so many drafts in the ministries. But it seems to me that this is rather an example of how things should be treated and, in principle, the national parliament should not intervene. This is not the order of magnitude of the question. Do you have any suggestion as to how anything could be done differently in the future, so that you do not have to make such presentations anymore and we do not have to take such votes?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-12_U12	Thank you! After all, the quality of the draft law has been discussed for all the years that Estonia has been independent again and for the last period of independence as well. The fact that mistakes happen is life's inevitable. The institution of the Chancellor of Justice has been called upon, among other things, to say that if any such mistakes come out of society, we will analyse the problem and, as soon as possible, we will come forward with a request to resolve the matter before you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-12_U13	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice. No further questions. I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, for the Chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-12_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Chancellor of Justice and ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice on Thursday 29 October 2015. The Chancellor of Justice gave us the same overview as in this big hall. What, then, did the Members of the Commission take an interest in? The Members of the Commission listened to the Chancellor of Justice's explanations and asked him questions. There was, among other things, an interest in whether the provision of passenger transport services by passenger cars with a maximum of five seats could not be fully deducted from the input tax. The Chancellor of Justice replied that they do not currently have data on service providers who would have applied for a Community licence for the carriage of passengers by ordinary passenger cars of up to five seats. At the same time, the Chancellor of Justice stated that there may still be such operators, for example in the Taxify system. They do not operate in the form of taxi transport, but are also subject to VAT and may have the same problem of deduction of input VAT. It also asked how difficult it was to apply for a Community licence. The Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice explained that the application for a Community licence is quite time-consuming, since it is necessary to appoint a transport manager who will receive separate training from the transport manager, in addition, the applicant for a Community licence must demonstrate his financial capacity. In the case of vehicles with a capacity of not more than nine seats, the applicant for a Community licence must have equity capital of at least EUR 1250 for each vehicle used (section 43 (8) of the Public Transport Act). The Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice doubted whether the owners of ordinary passenger cars would in future apply for a Community licence to provide passenger transport services in order to deduct input tax, as this is quite complex and time-consuming. A transport manager must be designated, a training programme similar to that of a taxi driver's licence training scheme must be completed and the financial capacity of the driver, as discussed, must be demonstrated. In addition, the accounts must show that the main activity of the company is passenger transport. Rather, it is easier to acquire a van or another category of vehicle in order to obtain the right to deduct input tax. What was decided in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs? It was decided to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal and appoint Mr Kalle Laane as rapporteur. Both decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-12_U15	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Finance Committee, Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-12_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Chancellor of Justice's proposal to bring the VAT Act into line with the Constitution was discussed by the Riigikogu Committee on Finance at its meeting on 29 October. At the discussion, the Chancellor of Justice and the representative of the Ministry of Finance were present. The Chancellor of Justice explained why he proposed. He also gave an overview of this in his speech today, and I will not go over it again. The representative of the Ministry of Finance, as the so-called guardian of the law, also confirmed to the Committee on Monetary Affairs that this request is justified and that the law really needs to be amended. As a reminder of the history of the development of this standard, Estonia requested an exemption from the Council of the European Union with as few exceptions as possible as regards the calculation of the input tax on the company's passenger cars. On the one hand, for companies to be treated equally and on the other hand, in order to avoid possible abuse of exemptions. The Council of the European Union has granted us an exception under which the limitation on the deduction of VAT may not apply to vehicles used for the carriage of passengers, including taxi services, for consideration. The Estonian state had to apply for a permit as an exception. It is a question of its scope and its precise wording, therefore, that is why we have this proposal on this table. The questions raised during the Commission's discussion were as follows: How have the derogations granted to other countries been formulated, and how have they been interpreted? The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that the recent derogations are rather far-reaching wordings. In general, this interpretation is wider than that of our Estonian state today. How many companies are affected by this restriction? The Community licence has been issued for the provision of occasional passenger transport services to 95 companies in Estonia, and according to current knowledge 173 passenger cars are concerned. The members of the Monetary Commission, regardless of their political affiliation, expressed the view that it was difficult to find compelling substantive arguments to justify different treatment. The Finance Committee considered that there was no reasonable reason to justify the treatment of a occasional service provider under a Community licence other than an undertaking carrying passengers under a taxi licence. This distinction is also not permitted by the derogation granted by the Council of the European Union. This interpretation therefore needs to be clarified. Consequently, the Committee on Monetary Affairs recommends that the plenary support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. The chairman of the committee was appointed rapporteur. Both decisions were taken by consensus within the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-12_U17	A good waitress, regardless of their party membership, there are no questions for you. Thank you. Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. So we go to the preparation of the vote. Dear colleagues, I shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Please take a stand and vote. Dear colleagues, our vote clearly shows the majority in favour: 79 votes in favour, 79 votes against and no abstentions. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal was supported. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Monetary Affairs and his Chairman! As the Riigikogu supported the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, in accordance with § 152 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, I instruct the Finance Committee to initiate a draft to bring Article 30 (3) and (4) (3) of the VAT Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Our first and only item is closed and therefore today's sitting is closed. I thank you and your strength in our work! Closure of the sitting at 10.21 a.m.
