ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U1	Good afternoon, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the third working week of the IXth plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee! Good fellows, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm handing over the law of the earth...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U3	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, I can't hear a thing. A member of the Riigikogu is in the Chair of the Riigikogu and most likely wishes to pass on a bill or an inquiry or, less likely, a letter to the management board. Please, let's hear what he wants to hand over!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U4	Thank you. I really want to hand over the draft law amending the law on the ground. It consists of two small paragraphs, and I believe that with good will, ladies and gentlemen, we will be able to adopt this law within the remaining three weeks of its membership. We sat with the Support Group for Mining Industries on Thursday. The leaders of both Eesti Energia and Viru Keemia Group were present, representatives of the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Finance, as well as members of our working group. I didn't dare suggest that we come here with such a bill. It happened that, in consensus, everyone agreed that this was a very good draft and that it should be put to the procedure, but the question is how to do it before the elections so that no one could add to the banners or fame or do someone a favor. I am not running, and I am not a member of any group. I think you could come back to the bill, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U5	I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U6	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, In some jobs, you still need a really good memory to run this job, or let's say, you just need to have a memory. It's like in the case of a two-wife, he should still remember what he told each woman. I'm going to report an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Science, who had an embarrassing story a week ago. Exactly the same time that the Russian-language media had news that the Minister of Education was going to cancel the Estonian language at upper secondary school, i.e. to waive 60% of the requirement, he said here in the Chamber of Riigikogu, where he was interviewed on this subject for the third or fourth time, that this would not change; he did not intend to change it. Now there are two options. Of course, a person may have two opinions on one issue, but can such a luxury be allowed by the Minister of the Republic of Estonia? There is, of course, also such a version that two different principles, when they are spoken in different languages, form something uniform. I even know what that thing is. However, the Minister of Education would like to know what he really thinks and whether he intends to apologize to either the Estonians or the Russians for lying in this Chamber or in the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U7	Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U8	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to report to the Minister of Education and Science, Jevgeni Ossinovski, and the question concerns the closure of Põltsamaa Vocational School. In particular, Minister Ossinovski took the decision four months ago to merge Põltsamaa Vocational School and Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre. This Decision is addressed to the Federal Republic of Germany. We know that this school has very great traditions; it is the legal successor of the former Estonian Alexander School. More than 1,000 signatures were collected in three days against the decision, appealed to the Chancellor of Justice. On that point, the minister really said that we would delay the closure a little, but he suggested that all children go to Paide and Särevere to study anyway. It is strange that the school's dormitory and study building were already in the design phase, eight million euros of money had been allocated, which was taken away from them. It is even more bizarre that the study building-internship house, very modern and beautiful, was also completed, which cost six million to keep the school from developing. What was it made for anyway? The minister says that this school is not sustainable, yet the quota requirement for students is met and exceeded, there are 326 students studying. So everything is as requested, but they want to shut down school in the future. We still have a lot of questions, of course. Where is this money put, and how can it be done that the money requested for a particular object will be taken away later?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U9	There's no more calls. I have adopted one draft and two inquiries on behalf of the Bureau, and the Bureau will decide on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Under the announcements, I say so much that the Board of the Riigikogu is waiting for all the letters to be sent to the office R 212. Good fellows, please, let's do the presence check. 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16. We shall proceed to the adoption of the agenda. Dear colleagues, you have been allocated the agenda for the third working week of the IX session. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U10	Thank you, President of the sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U11	I'm sorry! Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall! I do not hear the speech of a good fellow official, Urmas Reinsalu, so please keep it down! Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U12	Thank you, Mr President. The agenda has been presented and there are a number of important things in it, but we, the IRL, are proposing to remove the first item of the week's session, draft 820.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U13	Thank you. There are now a number of points of view. The agenda has been presented and there are indeed a number of important things in it. The third proposal was to remove the first item on the agenda of the Thursday sitting from this week's agenda. Any other suggestions? Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U14	Thank you, Mr President. We are protesting against this proposal. Since the board has made a number of wise decisions, it is certainly worth discussing this issue in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U15	Thank you. According to our order, if at least one group is opposed, the proposal will not be supported. Dear colleagues, I will vote on the agenda for the third working week of the IX session. Please take a stand and vote. The agenda has been adopted with the result of 57 votes against 19 and 3 abstentions. Let's start working on today's enquiries.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U16	The first question to be heard is the question of the first day of the Christmas month of the Riigikogu members Priit Toobali, Kalev Kallo, Tarmo Tamme, Eldar Efendiev, Enn Esemaa, Peeter Võsa, Lauri Laas, Valeri Korbi, Heimar Leng, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Mailis Repsi, Siret Kotka, Viktor Vassilyev and Urbo Vaarmanni. Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Health and Labour, will answer the question. Please introduce Priit Toobali, representative of the heirs of the Riigikogu's speech chair to the public!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U17	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, on 1 December last year, I, along with several colleagues from the Group of the Centre Party, presented an inquiry into alcohol policy to the Minister of Health and Labour, Urmas Kruus. The question is motivated by the fact that Estonian people continue to consume too much alcohol. I had a chance to meet the voters in Võhma yesterday. When I knocked on one door, I was met by a gentleman who had already had drinks and was quite happy. I asked if there was a party or what kind of event you were having, and then this citizen said no, he just takes it to himself that this government is just making you drink. I totally agree that the current government is just making you drink. But now, seriously, last February, the Government of the Republic approved the Green Paper on alcohol policy. This document sets out the trends in Estonian alcohol policy, and the measures it brings together are aimed at reducing total and excess alcohol consumption. Unfortunately, Estonia is among the most alcohol consuming countries and we also have a much more available strong alcohol compared to the Nordic countries. In addition to the above, the measures provided for in the Green Paper on alcohol policy aim at preventing the consumption of alcohol by minors, reducing alcohol-related crime, social and health problems. As shortcomings in the Green Paper on alcohol policy, it has been pointed out that the proposed measures are not sufficient to achieve the objectives set. For example, according to the original version of the Green Paper, both 1 June and 1 September would have been the first day of child protection and the second day when children went to school were alcohol-free days, but later it was changed. At present, the Green Paper merely states that an attitude should be shaped in society not to consume alcohol on these days. The ban on alcohol consumption is no longer in the new version of the Green Paper. In addition to the above, the Ministry of Social Affairs has not produced any concrete proposals to set a minimum price for alcohol, which this Green Paper discusses. On our fourth question, which we have asked the Minister, we are asking about the same non-alcoholic days, the increase in excise duty and the advertising of alcohol. On the latter, the Centre Party Group has already repeatedly initiated drafts of the law and has also made inquiries in this Chamber. The Green Paper also states that there is a need to ban alcohol advertising, but unfortunately, all the initiatives proposed by the Central Party Group are still in the drawer of the coalition ambassadors and also of the Chairman of the Economic Commission. Let us ask whether the Minister sees the need to proceed with this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U18	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu Chair to answer the question of the Minister of Health and Labour of the Republic of Estonia Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer the questions in order. The first question from the good questioners: 'If 10 litres of absolute alcohol per person was consumed in 2013, the measures set out in the Green Paper aim to bring this figure below eight litres. How realistic do you consider the possibility of bringing this number below eight in the light of the so-called softened measures of the Green Paper and when do you expect us to see the desired result? ' The authors of the Green Paper wanted the paper to reflect as much expertise as possible and, according to scientific evidence, effective measures to limit alcohol consumption. This is precisely why the classical development plan model was abandoned, where the implementation of the measures is set in time and therefore the choice of measures is limited to the resources available during this period. According to the authors, alcohol consumption in Estonia will fall to less than eight litres once most of the measures of the Green Paper have been implemented. The measures of the Green Paper have already been implemented. Improving treatment opportunities and an information campaign for young people, parents and also society as a whole have been initiated. The increase in excise duty has been consistent. Much of the measures of the Green Paper still need to be implemented and the measures already taken need to be further developed. The main responsibility here lies with the next parliamentary term. Alcohol consumption statistics suggest cautiously that the direction is right. When consumption fell very sharply during the economic crisis, this was explained above all by the effects of the crisis, and experts feared that, as economic conditions improved, the level before the crisis would recover, i.e. more than 12 litres of absolute alcohol per capita per year. Indeed, consumption increased in 2011, but not to 12 litres, but to 10.4 litres. Consumption has decreased gradually between 2011 and 2013, with an increase of 10 litres of absolute alcohol per capita in 2013. A simple calculation shows that if alcohol consumption decreases at the same rate as in the last three years, we will reach eight litres in ten years. In order for this change to take place more quickly, it is very important that the remaining measures of the Green Paper are also implemented and that the activities already started continue. According to experts, the measures described in the Green Paper should be implemented within a single election period, so their implementation should be evaluated within four years at the latest and, if successful, results should be expected to be achieved in an approximate period of time or with some delay. The second question: 'The world's practice shows that measures to limit alcohol sales and reduce shopping comfort are the most effective measures to reduce alcohol consumption. International studies also confirm that one alcohol-free day per week reduces alcohol harm (e.g. domestic violence, car accidents). Tallinn plans to take such steps. Viimsi parish elder recommends considering a nationwide ban on the sale of alcohol on Sunday. What steps is the state planning to take to limit the convenience of buying alcohol or reduce the number of outlets? ' Estonian health professionals recommend at least three alcohol-free days a week. The corresponding national recommendations are available on the website alkoinfo.ee, as well as on the recommendation that less is always better. So there could be even more alcohol - free days. What day, exactly, would be alcohol-free, could still be left to man's own decision. As we can see from the initiatives 'No drinking in September', 'Alcoholic January' and so on, many people voluntarily decide to make alcohol free for much more days than the national recommendations. Such a voluntary initiative is also valuable in shaping and setting an example of attitudes. However, if we come to administrative restrictions on the availability of alcohol, which do not automatically mean alcohol-free days for people, I would like to clarify which measures are most effective in restricting excessive consumption. According to international and Estonian studies, the most unambiguous and stronger impact on alcohol consumption is primarily on the financial availability of alcohol, i.e. the ratio between price and people's income. For example, in 2009, the internationally recognised health research corporation RAND Europe carried out, at the Commission's request, the most widely based study on the relationship between alcohol prices, consumption and losses, and convincingly demonstrated that cheaper prices lead to higher consumption and higher health losses. Economic availability is the most universal factor in influencing alcohol consumption. Here, for example, the price elasticity of drinks depends on the part of the food culture of one country or another, but in general, the relative value of alcohol affects drinkers regardless of nationality, national borders and culture. However, it is precisely those groups that we particularly want to influence, young and over-consumers, that are more price sensitive than the average. In Estonia, consumption and prices are quite unambiguously linked, as shown by the graph, which is known through surveys. The mechanisms for influencing physical availability are more complex. The general understanding is that a more convenient purchase option increases consumption, while limiting availability reduces specific side effects and potential undesirable results in specific situations. The third question: 'The Green Paper on alcohol policy has been ready for several years, but according to experts, the implementation of alcohol policy in Estonia has not come very far. The SDE and Reform Party's coalition action programme also contains only one measure: 'We will further increase tobacco and alcohol excise duties in order to protect health and restrict the availability of health-harming products. 'I ask you to explain why the government has focused only on the increase in excise duty. The Green Paper on alcohol policy was approved on 20 February 2014 and its actions started at the time of its preparation. The coalition agreement for 11 months is undoubtedly more laconical than the coalition agreement for four years. Alcohol policy was agreed on an increase in excise duty, as it required rapid, concrete legislative initiatives. This does not mean that the remaining measures set out in the Green Paper do not apply. All documents of the State and the principles formulated therein shall be valid until the amendment, revocation or expiry date, irrespective of the coalition agreement. The principles of the Green Paper have continued to be implemented even during this coalition without setbacks. One important measure is to develop treatment for alcohol dependence and increase its availability through the 'Sober and healthier Estonia' programme funded by the European Social Fund. The first patients should benefit from the programme no later than one year later, while a qualitative leap in access to alcohol treatment is expected after much longer periods. Thus, the impact of this measure on consumption figures will only take years to come, while the impact on both alcohol consumption and welfare in general will be profound, comprehensive and sustainable. Question 4: 'You have said that alcohol advertising must be restricted. As early as 2011, the Riigikogu Central Party Group initiated a draft amendment to the Advertising Act aimed at imposing stricter restrictions on alcohol advertising. This draft is still in the drawer of the Chair of the Economic Commission. Can you conclude from your speech that you support the further processing of our draft? ' The Ministry of Social Affairs supports the proposal made in the Green Paper on alcohol policy to regulate advertising. As a major change, the principles of content regulation have been amended. A number of aspects of alcohol advertising are currently prohibited, such as linking social and sexual success to alcohol consumption. It is difficult to control and there are differences of opinion in the interpretation of the law. The work of the Riigikogu is organised by members of the Riigikogu, the work of the committee, in particular the chairman of the committee, the intervention of the minister may be considered inappropriate here. However, any discussion on alcohol policy in Riigikogu committees is certainly welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U20	Minister, thank you. You have questions. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U21	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. With humor, one might say that this measure, the content of which is to keep people's salaries and pensions as low as possible, because then they can buy little vodka, has worked well and made alcohol less consumed. But it's not very serious. The draft Green Paper, before finalising it after several years of preparation, provided that 1 June, Children's Protection Day and 1 September were alcohol-free. For some reason, it was abandoned in the course of the proceedings. It was only a sentence that we would do our utmost to ensure that alcohol was consumed as little as possible these days, but such withdrawal days have been omitted. Do you remember or can you tell me whose proposal and why they were left out of the book?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U22	Thank you, Reverend Asker! When we talk about income, pensions have risen several times since 2005. The share of money spent on alcohol in income has certainly not increased as much as our total income. On whose proposal the wording was changed or what was planned was not dealt with in the way that was originally foreseen, I am indebted to the answer. However, I will stick to what has already been said that changing attitudes does not simply require mandatory alcohol-free days at national level. Changing attitudes and their impact on alcohol consumption are many times greater than the national introduction of individual non-alcoholic days.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U23	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have always wondered how this figure is calculated per person, which in our case is 10.4 liters. Is it simply alcohol sold on the territory of the country converted into absolute alcohol and then calculated how much for each person? Will there be alcohol in it, which will be transferred to neighbouring countries, such as the Gulf of Finland? Does this number include home beer, wine, booze, which is still made? How does this calculation work?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U25	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Exports have been calculated, which means that what goes out of the country is out of this consumption indicator. If we were to take into account all the sales statistics, there would be, if I wasn't mistaken, about 17 litres per Estonian resident. In that case, we are talking about the whole population. There is another number that shows consumption from 15 to death, if we can calculate this statistically, and this number is greater. This statistics cannot, by definition, reflect the production of home wine, if that is what you mean.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U26	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U27	Thank you, Minister. Whenever the alcohol consumption of people in Estonia is discussed, one of the problems is that young people learn to drink alcohol with drinks such as alcopies. When pure vodka may seem bitter to a beginner, it is sweet drinks that leave a pleasant taste. Some ministries have said that they do not know how to develop a special excise policy, according to which the excise duty on alcohol pops would be higher and that these drinks would not be so readily available to the young consumer. You are the Minister of Health and Labour. Who else, if not you, should be the one who, along with his assistants, is developing a scheme to reduce the popularity of such drinks, even through a price-setting system. What have you done about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U28	Thank you. The first thing I have done as a minister is that I do not promote the consumption of such alcoholic beverages. I have said this in many places, and I intend to do so in the future. Secondly, any internal regulation must take into account the overall European legal space and, as far as I know, the possibility of introducing such an additional or different excise duty in this area of justice. On the discussion that we have within the country about whether we could treat excise duty differently, we can say that there are different interests, such as those of producers of strong alcohol and producers of lean alcohol. The current government maintained that excise duty is increasing evenly. But based on the content, when we're talking about absolute alcohol, the essence of the excise is a little bit different in the rate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U29	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U30	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You repeatedly stressed in your answers that it was most important to change attitudes. But if we don't want to ban advertising, we advertise alcohol, we don't want to ban sales or distribution, but let's just sell alcohol at gas stations and wherever, can we talk about changing attitudes? Do you really think that without the law, without the banning methods, these attitudes will take hold and begin to change? You don't really see that much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U31	Thank you, Reverend Asker! If the Minister were not in favour of any ban, neither the previous governments nor the current government would have supported the creation of a Green Paper either. The Green Paper is based on the fact that certain limitations and the desire to change attitudes relate precisely to the measures described in this paper. When we talk about a very important target group, such as young people, there are a number of restrictions on them, whether on the basis of the right to buy, consume and own alcohol or on the basis of alcohol advertising, at what time it could be seen. In reply to the inquiry, I also mentioned the so-called "experience advertising," which I think is a little more, regardless of how we interpret it. The Green Paper also provides for steps to prevent such advertising from taking place, up to whether or not specific people could act in such ads. If you're watching ads now, you'll see people there from time to time as so-called characters. In the long term, we do not think that it is reasonable or necessary to promote alcohol in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U32	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U33	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I don't think I know as liberal alcoholic policy in other parts of Europe as there is in Estonia. Perhaps you will clarify whether it is even more liberal in some countries. We can pick up alcohol practically 24 hours a day, and alcohol consumption is advertised through all kinds of media. There are small restrictions, but I ask why, for example, there are no restrictions on advertising alcohol on the Internet. You can freely advertise alcohol there, but most young people today are Internet users.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U34	Thank you, good questioner! I certainly cannot agree with the first part of this question, as if we could buy alcohol at the store 24 hours a day. We have time limits. The second part of the question was connected to the Internet. There is alcohol advertising on the Internet, but this advertising is actually prohibited in articles and sites related to children and minors. So if you, honourable member of the Riigikogu, notice such ads, you could signal it. I agree with the implicit question whether supervision, which we legally have in order to combat the abuse of the law, is sufficient. I dare personally to maintain the view that there is probably not, and we should review in the future whether our current capacity is sufficient to make existing laws comply.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U35	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U36	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. When we talk about alcohol policy, I think there are two big blocks of questions. The first relates to how to get alcohol and the second to how to bring back into society those who consume more alcohol than they need. Do you have a numerical view of the number of places in the country, namely beds where alcohol dependence can be treated? What do we look like, in comparison to the other countries of the European Union, in terms of this figure, say, 1 000 or 10,000 people?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U37	Thank you. All I can say is that one of our great wishes and aims is to make the treatment of alcohol dependence very clear in Estonia. As a result, we have foreseen 10 million euros from European money to launch a completely new system in the meaning of the Estonian state, which looks at alcohol treatment as a very multi-stage process and considers it important that all these stages can be completed. I must admit that the treatment that we are offering as a whole obviously no longer corresponds to today's approach. That is why 10 million euros will be allocated to develop a sustainable programme in Estonia. The reason we're doing this is two-part. The first is, of course, the ethical and moral side. We all know that alcoholism poses social risks, which raises many problems for both the loved ones and the community as a whole. The second part relates to the fact that if we do not deal with this treatment immediately, we will spend several times more on the treatment of quite serious health damage occurring in the next stage than on the treatment of alcohol dependence. The objective is therefore two-part: one relates to social, ethical and moral aspects and the other to the economic sense of dealing with a multi-stage sustainable treatment process. This is ultimately cheaper than ignoring the situation and dealing with health damage after which it is clearly more costly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U38	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U39	Thank you. Mr. Minister! What is your attitude towards banning the sale of alcohol at petrol filling stations, fuel filling stations, as Tallinn wants to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U40	Thank you. Good questioner! This question has also been put to me in this Chamber in connection with previous enquiries. I have pointed out in my answers that when we talk about today's petrol stations, which could have a direct connection with driving and alcohol consumption, we have to admit that a lot of gas stations are located in the territory of shopping centres and they are shops, not petrol stations. That's why, in terms of efficiency, I don't see as much of a connection here as a good questioner obviously expects.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U41	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister for Health and Labour, You replied earlier that you did not see direct measures to make sweet, high sugar and low-alcoholic drinks less accessible to young people. If we look at what instruments can be implemented here, they are not just prevention and sport, which are certainly the most effective. This kind of teaching children to drink through alcoholic beverages with a percentage of alcohol content, which are very sweet and clearly targeted at the target audience, is certainly not a common practice. At ministerial meetings, at least in Brussels, you have certainly heard the good advice of others. What are you going to do, and what recommendations will you give to the next Minister for Health?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U43	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I guess I didn't put it exactly like the honourable questioner just said. We were talking about excise duty, and I just didn't see a way to use it. If this is to be the case in the future, it will need a very long debate. But when it comes to reducing young people's alcohol consumption, it is primarily linked to both information and prevention programmes. We are looking for resources, and I can say that as a bit innovative, we have tried to deal with difficult topics in Estonian schools, for example, through theatre NO99. In fact, through various processes, performances, the theatre is able to get very close to young people, so that they dare to address this issue and, if necessary, recognise the problem. We have received very important feedback. I cannot underestimate the methods with which we approach people and try to influence their attitudes. As regards the availability of alcohol to minors, if you remember, the honourable Riigikogu is currently dealing with another evil, e-cigarette, in parallel. They try to reach the masses in the same way through such pleasantness and variety of tastes (that is to say, the liquids used in them). For this reason, I dare say that we have taken these issues to very serious attention and are dealing with them, but I cannot allow you to make immediate progress during this 11-month ministerial period. What allows us to believe that prevention has been positive is the same sign that I have already mentioned in my answers. We assumed that during the economic downturn, consumption fell on the basis of economic thinking or income, but we saw that when the economy and income recovered, fortunately, consumption did not recover. This is an indication that the measures will also have a clear long-term impact.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U44	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U45	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I have a two-part question. You said that you have been a minister for so little time and have not yet had enough work to produce results. Does this mean that your predecessor, Taavi Kõivas, did his job badly, that he couldn't do it, and you must now wrestle overdrinking? That's one side of the question. The other side is like this. You said that you have studied the attitudes and attitudes of young people, even in the theatre you are already doing anti-alcohol propaganda. So be nice and, as minister, please state three reasons why the Estonian people drink and why young people drink.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U46	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I have not said in my answers that I have been so busy for such a short time that there has been nothing I could do. I cannot agree with this, because if we look at the implementation of the measures, some of the measures of the same Green Paper will have been implemented. The second part of the question concerned a reference to the theatre. I indicated that we were trying to reach people, their consciousness through various methods. The simplest method is indeed that we put posters on the streets, posters and video clips in the media, and we expect and hope that part of the target group will receive the message and change their attitudes. The reason why we are also experimenting with creative collectives and trying to get to schools, I stress once again, namely to get to schools, is that, experientially, these experiments have been more effective than any alternative method. That is why we want to try this method. In addition, in my opinion, both ministers and members of the Riigikogu should show that alcohol consumption is not popular. It's not a part of pop culture in the sense that if you don't drink, it's like you don't exist. Let me give you some simple examples. If I have been invited from time to time to a variety of events, then I have to admit that, and I have heard the same from colleagues, that if you ask for a non-alcoholic drink at reception, you have to search it with a match light in many cases or it takes more time than to get the champagne glass. I would argue that it is a question of attitudes and our understanding of how a cultural evening could be furnished. I am therefore convinced that the different methods we use have different effects on the different target groups, but the end effect is still positive. This is actually confirmed by the figures we get from the statistics.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U47	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U48	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I have a very simple question and it can be worded as follows: could there be a national or temporal example for Estonia how to solve problems in this area? Why do I ask that? Because I remember that about 20 years ago there was a big problem in Sweden, and young people started drinking a lot of alcohol. In Sweden, this problem was set up at national level at the time and tried to solve it somehow. Within ten years, a good result was also achieved. But, of course, it was not only in this area, in the sector, but in a much wider way, the state tried to solve social, educational and many other issues. Can you answer that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U49	Thank you. Estonia can certainly follow the example of Sweden in the future. If we look at Sweden's current figures, we will strive for it too. However, if we look at the northern neighbours and their harsh alcohol policy, we can say that for themselves they may not have achieved as good a result as they wanted at first, which does not mean that they did not achieve a result at all. In this regard, the creation of a Green Paper in Estonia and society is also a clear national policy, which shows that the problem has been recognised at the highest level. When we talked about when we could reach eight liters of absolute alcohol per person, I indicated that this could happen in about ten years, when all these measures have been implemented, it could be an ideal picture. Of course, if we are talking about the economy and the adverse effects on the economy, then the ideal would be six litres. This would actually mean that then we can already estimate that the effects on health and the economy as a whole do not have a negative balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U50	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Priit Toobali, the speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. I fully agree with my colleague Tarmo Tamm, who said that he does not know any country as fluent in alcohol as Estonia. We calculated with another colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, how much this 10.4 liters of absolute alcohol means drinking alcohol in the common sense. This means that every person in Estonia drinks a bottle of vodka from birth to death a week. It's obviously too much, and not everyone does it. Unfortunately, young people start drinking at the age of 13 to 14, which means that anyone who falls below that age must also drink. Which means that 0.5 liters comes on average per person, but in reality this quantity is significantly higher. And that's a lot. We have asked the same question at least twice for the second time to the current minister. This is certainly the case. We have also presented this to previous ministers. However, it must be acknowledged that nothing has been done in the intervening period but increase the excise duty. The Green Paper is one of the tricky things to constantly refer to. But, as the Minister said today, the method of the Green Paper was essentially chosen, not the method of the classical development plan, because the Green Paper does not have a specific timetable, a time frame, when a question will be resolved and when one or another objective is expected to be achieved. It's a good opportunity to say that the Green Paper says, we'll sort it out sometime. I propose three concrete measures and it can be seen that these measures have worked in neighbouring countries and in the European Union at large. No alcohol ads. In 2011, the Central Party Group submitted a draft to Parliament's proceedings which would have prohibited alcohol advertising on television, on the Internet, on radio and in street pictures. Until today, it is in the drawer of the Chair of the Economic Commission, and it has not been taken out, although our committee members have asked for it on several occasions. Lithuania is a good example here. Lithuania went into a ban on alcohol advertising and alcohol consumption has decreased. The minister shakes his head, but the figures show it. Finland as the last example. There is no prohibition, but there are several media that ban alcohol advertising, and I think it is wisely done. The second measure is restrictions on outlets. The same thing that the city of Tallinn is planning to do, i.e. prohibit the sale of alcohol at petrol stations. Objection, as if it were legally impossible to do so, because in a number of gas stations stores are registered as food stores, which is such a big exception, Estonia is not able to solve the legal problem if the sale of alcohol at petrol stations is prohibited in most European countries. Attorney-at-law Indrek Sirk has quite rightly said that it would be about the same as selling guns in bank offices, that I would buy a gun there, and with that same gun, I would go to attack that bank immediately. The sale of alcohol at a gas station can be compared to this example. Thirdly, I propose the same non-alcoholic days, such as 1 June and 1 September. Every year, when a young song and dance party or a general song and dance party is held, it is proposed that these events should be non-alcoholic. So far, the Ministry of Culture has not been able to resist the lobbyists of alcohol producers and to declare these days non-alcoholic. When you go to a song and dance, first you'll be staring at the beer tents of several alcohol manufacturers, only after that will you see a song and dance party. I think this is not a normal situation, and with it we certainly do not set an example for young people and do not change the attitude that the Minister repeatedly emphasised on the board. We're not gonna change our attitude with this kind of behavior. Indeed, the current minister has been in office for a few months, not even for a full year yet, but the previous ministers have not dealt with this issue, nor have they proposed any concrete solution. I believe that the next government will review the actions mentioned in the Green Paper, draw up a specific timetable and also write what results are expected at the time. These answers, which we have received here, do not give me any assurance that this problem will be taken seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U52	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U53	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's a long time ago. After all, the Reform Party, which has been in power for fifteen years in a row, has made it very clear, or at least has shown that more is needed to get the state budget full. The implementing legislation of the Law Enforcement Act, which was adopted in the spring with the votes of the Reform Party and Social Democrats, was directly in favour of drinking, you can drink on the street, behind the shop, drink anywhere, no restrictions, as long as VAT and excise duties come. In the last 15 years, nothing significant has actually been achieved since the restriction on sales times. Estonia is the only place in the world statistics have been made a few years ago, where more than 100 litres of alcohol per person is sold per year. Tourists are included here, but it's still very, very much. Every fourth death certificate, prescribed, has the word 'alcohol' added. Every fourth one, whether it's liver or heart problems, anything. Former ambulance doctor Mare Liider, who worked in emergency care for over 30 years and, unfortunately, was now laid off, has said that he is seeing more and more children aged 12 to 13 who are drinking alcohol, more and more young people aged 15 to 16 who are suffering from liver damage at the age of 15. Alcoholic epilepsy, etc., is also increasing. And there are country shops where there may not be fresh milk, bread, etc., but there is definitely alcohol there. 11% of men in Estonia and 5% of women are currently dependent on alcohol. I mean, then, Estonia is a country where you can just drink yourself to death. The fact that the amendment to the law of law was withdrawn did not come from the fact that our government cares very much about human health, but it just got so big and it got so scared that votes would be lost in elections. Tallinn, which no longer allows alcohol to be sold at small shops and petrol stations, is of course bad. As we have heard from the Minister today, he is not in favour of it. Okay, that limits the freedom to conduct a business. Companies and fuel sellers have currently sued the city of Tallinn. As if freedom to conduct a business was a higher priority than a person's health. So, what country are we really? In many countries, you can't even put a closed bottle of alcohol in your car. But the order of the Reform Party is, as one of the editorials of the Evening Festival said, that the people should be drunk on the state budget, as it was said there. It's pathetic, but unfortunately, it's been like this for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U54	Thank you. There's no more calls. Would the Minister like a word? No, I don't. Got it. I will close the negotiations and this has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U55	We will move on to the second inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Siret Kotka, Tarmo Tamm, Viktor Vassiliev, Valeri Korb, Kalev Kallo, Lauri Laas, Eldar Efendiev and Priit Toobal on 4 December 2014. The subject of inquiry is the protection of people in distress with a home loan. The inquiry, bearing the number 450, is answered by Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be presented to the public by Siret Kotka, the representative of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In December last year, members of the Central Party Group submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Justice, Andres Anvelt, concerning the protection of people in distress with home loans. Many people in Estonia have acquired a home with the help of a bank, but during the economic crisis, they became enslaved to loans because they lost their jobs and were no longer able to cope with their obligations. Many of them still pay back the loan for their nonexistent home. According to the Estonian Credit Advisors' Association, there are nearly 140000 debts that are collected. Since the beginning of this year, debtors in Latvia have the opportunity to return their home keys to the bank without remaining in debt. Latvia adopted a law aimed primarily at making banks act more responsibly. In Estonia, however, there is no such protection, and often the bank peels ten skin off a person at a time. On the basis of the fact that there is a problem, but the government has done nothing about it, we have asked the Minister for Justice a question, where there are five questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U57	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to respond to Question No 450, Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U58	Mr President of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, thank you for an interesting question. The subject is very topical. Although we are, to some extent, coming out of such a difficult time of crisis, this does not mean that we cannot again face any problems in the future, as we see elsewhere in Europe. Also in the financial sector, when we think about yesterday's Greek elections, there will be no very strong stability in the near future. But now to the question. If you will allow me, I will also read out the question so that it is clear what I am going to answer exactly. The first question was this: "How has the Estonian state helped those people who lost their homes because of the economic crisis when they could no longer pay home loans to the bank? " First, a social assistance system has been established in Estonia. It offers people who have lost their homes, whose economic situation is really bad, the opportunity to move to social housing. The assignment and organisation of social services is the responsibility of the local government. One of the social services that local authorities must provide is the housing service. This means that the local government is obliged to give the dwelling to a person or family who is unable to provide it to himself or to his or her family. If necessary, you will be able to rent a service dwelling. This reminds me, by the way, of one sad episode from the beginning of the economic crisis, when Harju County Court sentenced the former Tallinn city official Allar Oviir, who had been dealing with municipal apartments in 2008 and had allowed companies to order for bribes in the district. These were municipal apartments, which could have been used as social housing if needed. When it comes to social and municipal housing where housing services are provided, the number of such spaces has gradually increased since 2007. While in 2007 there were 157 municipal and social housing units in 157 municipalities, by the end of 2013 there will be 190 municipalities. The number of social and municipal housing units has also increased: while there were 6392 such housing in Estonia at the end of 2008, there were 7409 at the end of 2012. In our view, the state would certainly be able to intervene more forcefully in the area of housing, and that is how the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Urve Palo, is developing a state-supported rental housing programme. Publicly supported rental homes are necessary both for the maintenance of the rental market and for the provision of affordable housing, as well as for halting peripheralisation. Secondly, people who have lost their home because they have been unable to pay a mortgage can be helped through income support. In particular, in the context of the payment of income support, not only is the amount set by the income limit, but also the family's housing costs are covered within the limits set by local authorities. I guess these limits also depend in part on how much the city wants to raise money for it or how much it spends instead for political advertising, for example. I always recommend using public money in the interests of the people. If necessary, local authorities can also help with unavoidable social assistance, which must at least cover the costs of food, clothing and temporary shelter. In addition, people who are in trouble with their obligations are able to receive debt counselling. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, the following municipalities provide debt counselling services to their residents: Tallinn, Tartu, Jõhvi, Pärnu, Keila, Haapsalu, Paide, Kuressaare, Kärdla, Saku and Viljandi. In addition, since 2012 the provision of debt counselling services has enabled the European Social Fund to increase its resources. As of June 2014, 80% of the local governments of Estonia are involved and all 15 counties are covered. At this point, I would point out that the debt counselling service could be even better, and we certainly need to be able to provide the service according to the need. It is also reflected in the election programme of my home party that our aim is to provide high-quality and accessible debt counselling services. Our aim is, for example, to ensure that the employment programme provides debt counselling services for registered unemployed people until 2015. We want to ensure the provision of advisory services to support local government from the European Union's Structural Funds, and we also want to provide for minimum requirements for debt counselling services in the Special Part of Social Welfare Act. The next question: 'How many people have benefited from debt restructuring and debt protection law? What is your assessment of the law? ' I note that this law has been developed in 2010 by the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee, not by the Ministry of Justice. As far as figures are concerned, from the entry into force of the Act until 30 November last year, i.e. three and a half years, 148 applications for debt restructuring have been submitted to the county courts. During this period, 114 cases have been dealt with in 15 applications. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in addition to the debt restructuring procedure, a self-employed debtor may also be exempted from the obligation to discharge the obligation following bankruptcy proceedings. In the context of this procedure, the court shall release the debtor from the obligation not to comply with the bankruptcy procedure. If the debtor is released from a defaulting obligation in bankruptcy proceedings, the debtor's claims against the debtor shall end. As of 2010, four times more applications to the county courts for a natural person's debt relief have been submitted than the claims for debt restructuring, i.e. 571. In the third question, you state that the real estate price is back on the boom level, and you ask what is the risk of history repeating itself when this bubble bursts. Between 2005 and 2007, house prices increased much faster than income. Since mid-2007, the situation started to become more realistic, i.e. prices started to fall, and the global financial crisis led to a sharp deterioration in the fall. In Estonia, the amendments to the Credit Institutions Act and the Eesti Pank Act in 2014 have given the task of identifying and reducing financial stability risks to Eesti Pank. According to Eesti Pank, the current situation on the real estate market is somewhat different. In general, housing prices have increased at the same rate as incomes. As of the third quarter of 2014, the median price of apartments in Estonia and Tallinn remained 25% and 15% lower, respectively, compared to the peak in the booming period, and housing prices are more in line with incomes I stress, more consistent than eight years ago, but still not in line with what was needed. In addition, the share of banks in financing housing transactions is significantly lower than in the previous period of rapid growth in the real estate market. Transactions are very often financed from own resources and the overall debt burden on households has therefore decreased. Eesti Pank has also introduced a regulation that will enter into force on 1 March this year. It defines the requirements for the entire banking market to be taken into account when granting housing loans. These are the limit of the guarantee ratio of the loan amount to 85%, the limit of the loan-to-interest ratio to the net income of the borrower and the maximum maturity of the mortgage loan to 30 years. Banks have been given the possibility to derogate from these claims, for example where the solvency or quality of the collateral of the borrower is exceptionally good or where the financing of domestic exchanges is involved. The purpose of the housing loan requirements imposed by Eesti Pank is to increase the resilience of both borrowers and banks to adverse developments. One objective is certainly to reduce the likelihood of an over-loaning property boom. Question 4: "What are the legal aspects, why can Estonia not follow the example of Latvia and introduce the 'keys back' principle into its legislation? ' First of all, I would like to thank you sincerely for a good question and for the opportunity to talk about our party's programme. Our programme aims are also to address the introduction of keys-back principle for housing loans. Its aim is to ensure that banks provide responsible loans to those who wish and also take into account the risks of the real estate market themselves. Anyone who is in default with a mortgage must be able to get rid of the loan by transferring the property to the bank. Legally, it is perfectly possible to implement the keys-back principle. For example, when drafting the law, consideration may be given to an optimal option, to which Latvian laws are currently moving, i.e. the bank's obligation to submit the option 'keys in hand' as a contract. What everything will look like in concrete terms will be revealed already during the next Riigikogu. We would also like to raise this issue in the next coalition negotiations. The final decision is within the competence of the next Riigikogu. The last question is this: 'Before taking a home loan, real estate is valued, which provides a forecast of the price level of both the region and the property itself. From its surface, the bank decides to what extent a person can obtain a loan. No one bears responsibility for this act at the moment. Who should be responsible for this assessment report? 'The Law on Public Authorities requires the Bank's Credit Committee to assess the solvency and reliability of the applicant when making a loan decision. The existence and adequacy of the borrower's collateral shall also be assessed. Furthermore, the Law of Obligations Act provides that the creditor applies the principle of responsible lending. The bank must provide sufficient and adequate information to enable it to make a loan decision. In addition, the credit institution is obliged to take into account the value of the mortgage on the property collateraled by the loans when calculating its exposures. The guarantee can be assessed by both the bank and the real estate valuer. The regulation and liability of the real estate valuer depends on the membership of the professional association and compliance with the corresponding professional standard. In Estonia, national standards for the valuation of Estonian assets meet the requirements of the Mortgage Credit Directive. On the basis of these standards, property valuers who meet the professional requirements for real estate will assess real estate. The procedure for assessing the property secured by the loan has been a non-legislative area and has raised questions across Europe. This led to the adoption of the so-called Mortgage Credit Directive in 2014. The requirements of the Directive apply to all lenders providing mortgage loans to consumers under real estate guarantees. Once the Directive has been transposed, the standard requirements applicable to the valuation process and the valuation report are mandatory for all property valuers. Therefore, in the future, the real estate can be assessed both as a bank and as a separate undertaking, only by an on-call valuer, who will be responsible for his activities taking into account the requirements of the invitation. The directive is to be transposed by the law on creditors and intermediaries, which is currently in the Riigikogu proceedings as draft 795. In particular, the valuation of the property covered by the guarantee and the retention of information on it are governed by § 53 of the draft law. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the bank's risks in the incorrect assessment of the guarantee may result in the bank losing its money in a situation where the beneficiary of the guarantee loan does not guarantee the loan, as individuals are able to use both the debt restructuring procedure and the post-insolvency bail-out procedure and not repay the bank's debt. It is therefore in the interest of the bank to assess the security correctly. In addition, it is still possible for the borrower to have an additional valuation of the value of the property in order to be sure that its risks have been mitigated. It is also possible to conclude insurance contracts in this respect. Finally, I would like to mention the fact that the activities of banks are subject to a public control mechanism. The banks are responsible for the regularity of the valuation and in particular for the Financial Supervision Authority, which checks how they comply with the rules of procedure and assess risks when granting loans. Thank you! I look forward to hearing your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U59	Thank you. There are questions. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U60	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. The 140,000 debtors are actually a good service to bailiffs. I know you've fought against the high fees of bailiffs. How is this struggle progressing, and what progress have you made by now?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U61	Thank you. This is not directly related to this question, but first I would distinguish between loans. When we are talking about fast-track loans, there are 140000 to 150,000; in the case of housing loans, this number is slightly different and there are much fewer problem loans. In the case of fast-track loans, it can be said that there are 30000 40,000 problem loans. The Ministry of Justice has initiated several drafts and handed them over to the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee. The aim is not so much to reduce the revenues of bailiffs but to bring their revenues into line with their activities. In my opinion, there is a very clear and pragmatic approach here: if a person is normally registered in his or her place of residence, lives there and can easily, by mail, be delivered to him or her, there are no problems, then such an action is certainly much cheaper than if a person has to search in Estonia or beyond. What I consider to be very important is to extend the deadline for volunteering to 30 days. I think it's elementary because that's when a person's payday stays in the time of volunteering. I hope that, in heated disputes, the Committee on Legal Affairs will find the necessary support for this proposal from among its members, it will reach this large hall and the large hall will support it. In view of the changes in the working arrangements of bailiffs, we have foreseen that this bill will be in force in 2017. They will thus be able to restructure the activities of their registers and offices. The whole calculation and, let's say, the movement of money is changing. That is why we came to the bailiffs and rejected the entry into force of 2016 instead of 2017, and with this date of entry into force, the draft is now on the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee. I hope it goes on like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U62	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U63	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! First of all, I'm glad you like the idea of getting the keys back and out of the loan. You spoke for a long time about your party program, but I would remind you that you are now in power. Why haven't you come up with such a bill as a minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U64	Thank you. Let's start by saying that power is based on a coalition treaty. During this year in the Ministry of Justice, we have taken on a very wide range of burning issues due to the coalition agreement that need to be resolved. Let us be honest, for five or six years in various forms we have moved towards solving the problem of quick loans, and now you have this package on the table here in the Riigikogu. This includes fixing the maximum percentage rate of charge, collection costs, advertising everything that, in the case of fast-track loans, can be said to poison our population. I think that the issue of quick loans hurts more than the issue of housing loans. And believe me, we're all politicians here, and we know that in ten months, you can do all kinds of great things, but the world doesn't completely fix it. To some extent it is actually good that Latvia has gone this way, and according to me, it is analysing how to proceed. It is precisely regional policy that has some problems with this option, as banks in remote areas are more conservative when granting loans, because people can move away from there to build their own farmland or something like that. I think it is right to look around properly here, to look at Latvia, to look at the Nordic countries and to make a key-hand system that is equally fair to the borrower, but the other way around would not cause regional political problems in our country, for example. We remember that there were two ways to borrow a loan before the time of the euro: there was a euro loan and a kroon loan. The banks offered both options. Why not think about the key-hand principle as well? I offer different options and once again say that this question would require a wider debate with all stakeholders, specialists, that the bank should offer more risky and less risky packages, that they are mandatory, and that the person, if he wants a lower risk, could have a slightly higher credit margin or number. Although, if we look at the housing market, I think competition is pretty good there. I can't quite see any rise in interest as a very large avalanche. I think the market is shaking everything in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U65	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You actually got out of the way in which people should have a choice, it should be possible to take loans with a higher or lower risk. Does it not seem to you that there is now a situation in Estonia where foreign banks have taken away our market and dictate everything that is happening in Estonia? If it is necessary to influence the country downwards, it will be done and, if necessary, it will be pushed upwards. Wouldn't it be time for a strong Estonian bank to emerge again? The LHV does exist, but in its time, Hansapank was a very strong bank. Or the solution should come at the national level, perhaps the national bank should start to think about what the Estonian person really needs and how to keep life alive in smaller places. The problem is much wider, but they don't want to talk about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U67	Thank you. Thank you for such a broader philosophical question. Here I can speak more than an Estonian patriot; the Minister of Justice may be a little further away from this subject, but I must also have an opinion. In general, I am not in favour of such very vigorous intervention, in this sense of forceful intervention, in order to duplicate what the private sector has done. What I see, and what I consider crucial as the Minister of Justice, has also been demonstrated by our activities over the last ten months, is that the consumer, whether he is a consumer of financial services, whether he is a buyer in a shop, a borrower, is still a weaker side. We often forget it. In such a case, the task of the state is very clear and it must be effective in establishing a set of rules according to which the consumer or the borrower, to whom the main point of our debate is addressed today, would not be able to offer options that essentially make his future economic or financial situation meaningless or very difficult, forcing him to go bankrupt, etc. I want to say that the country must lay down very clear rules, but in today's global world, I would rather look towards it as a former police officer, so it is an Estonian bank, a Latvian bank, a Swedish bank or a Finnish bank that moves there, so that it is not linked to the criminal world or worse, to terrorist groups. Money, especially when we are in the euro zone, does not have a national price tag, which is why I think that if things are well regulated at national level, we will be able to deal with those banks that are willing to offer their services on the market. And if we have strong Estonian players who want to enter the market, then the other thing that the state must guarantee is equal treatment, everyone must be able to compete according to the rules of the market economy. Any competition, alongside the law, will also strengthen the consumer's situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U68	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Siret Kotka, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U69	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, In Estonia, very many people are struggling to pay home loans. Very many people have already had to give up their homes and very many people expect the country to intervene and help them right now. But as always, the Estonian Government is watching from the side and does nothing. On the other hand, Latvia gives us eyes and has already passed a law that allows domestic borrowers in the last distressed situation to get away from the loan when they return the purchased real estate to the bank. In other words, the keys back to the bank and off the loan. In Estonia, however, it is a public secret that some parties are all connected to foreign banks, which is why they protect the interests of foreign banks and not our lenders. And it's also a public secret that Mart Laar has a key role to play in this story. As early as 2006, Swedbank, the leader of the banking market, found himself a political guardian and domesticated this politician. This politician gave him a guarantee that laws will not be passed unexpectedly in the interests of borrowers in Estonia, and banking policy is not man-centred but faces the bank. This was the approval of the mass debt slavery of our people and the launch of the loan boom was attended by Mart Laar, then chairman of the IRL, for only a monthly fee of EUR 290 for a member of the Swedbank Supervisory Board. A small amount, but it affected a lot of Estonians. Now we have the result, and a very large number of people are in trouble. I think we all know in this Chamber and we understand that this situation, which has been going on for decades, must be brought to an end and we must start looking at the human face. I therefore think that it is high time for the Estonian Government to do something about it. We can't be worse than Latvians! They have taken a great step forward from us in a fairer society, and therefore the Estonian government should set the example of the Latvian government and adopt a law that would give borrowers the opportunity to give back the 'keys' to the banks and thereby free themselves from debt slavery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U70	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U71	Dear colleagues, everyone who wishes to register for a free microphone speech, please do so after the hammer hit! Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U72	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The rather interesting exchange of views that took place a few days ago prompted me to speak today about the EUR 1000 minimum wage. The minimum wage of EUR 1 000 is one of the few real measures that will save the country from destruction' has been said by Ülo Pärnits. An entrepreneur whose wages are already higher than EUR 1000 in the eighth of nine companies knows what he is saying. Raising the minimum wage would reduce emigration, and reducing labour poverty will make the engine of the economy go faster, as confirmed by many international economic organisations. There is labour poverty in Estonia, the only way out of this is radical raising the minimum wage. Ülo Pärnits' position is also shared by Jaan Männik, former Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. Our great goal in Estonia must be that no one earns less than 1000 euros per month. A person who goes to full - time work does not have to fight hard every day to make ends meet and survive at all. Economist Olev Raju finds that the cost of work in Estonia is unfairly low, which is why the labour force flees here. Not all employers, of course, consider a large increase in the minimum wage possible. Ülo Pärnits says it's stupid talk. We're being intimidated by a few examples, actually we have a room for a raise. What is reality? Companies increase added value, profits increase, while wages do not grow in an equal proportion. Our wages are so low because the fundamental goal of Estonian entrepreneurs is to minimise costs, and wages are known to be a significant cost for the company. Therefore, there must be a compulsion to raise the company's salary, because no one raises it with just enough joy and goodness of heart. According to Pärnitsa, viable small businesses should manage to raise their wages. In this regard, the hysterical exclamation of Juhan Parts would pay no attention to the impossibility of raising wages. Having been an IRL brave animal four years ago with a promise 'Home expenses down! ' and later became Minister for the Economy, who had the key position and all the means to carry out his own and his party's slogan, he didn't do the least. Domestic expenditure continued to increase at an accelerated pace. The same bluff was the so-called contract with the electorate. The voter fulfilled his part of the contract, gave the IRL the opportunity to assume the responsibility for governance and to honour the promises, but nothing was received in return. That is why the exclamations coming from that side are not taken seriously and, of course, they would not be able to deliver on this promise. It is doubtful where the public sector will take the money to raise the minimum wage to EUR 1000. The answer is simple: firstly, the state apparatus must be tightened up and its effectiveness increased. As a member of the Economic Commission, I have occasionally heard in response to the question of why the bill reached the Riigikogu six months earlier than was promised, or even a year later, that it took much longer to coordinate in the second or third ministries, the pingpong of positions went back and forth. Now the question arises. A change of law is necessary for the development of the country; the government even has it in the coalition agreement. It's like a common goal, but it doesn't move because officials from different ministries just give a shit. If an official spends, for example, three hours of working time and five hours of disproving and overturning the work of his colleagues, turning this relationship into the opposite would be a great victory in time, in wages and in the development of the country. Raising the minimum wage would eventually also force an endlessly stalled administrative reform, and the public sector will also be supported by additional tax revenue from a strong rise in the minimum wage. Of course, an increase in the minimum wage cannot be just a single solution. The entire tax system that has been left behind in our time needs to be modernised. This would reduce the burden on businesses of other taxes, such as social tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-26_U73	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm shutting down the free microphone. Good fellows, our hearing today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 4:27 p.m.
