ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the fifth working week of the IXth plenary session of the Riigikogu. Does anyone have a desire to hand over drafts and inquiries? No, it's not. So, please, let's do the presence check! 64 members of the Riigikogu are present, 37 are missing. First, the weekly agenda needs to be approved. Honourable Riigikogu, I shall vote on the approval of the weekly agenda. Please take a stand and vote. There are 65 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, no respondents or abstentions. The week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U2	Our first item today is an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Priit Toobal, Lauri Laas, Heimar Lenk, Marika Tuus-Laul, Viktor Vassiliev, Eldar Efendiev, Enn Esemaa, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb, Urbo Vaarmann, Tarmo Tamm, Kalev Kallo and Siret Kotka. Priit Toobal will speak on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U3	... The Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Urve Palole, of the Centre Party Group, is involved in corporate governance. In 2013, a working group was convened at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to analyse and propose how to organise the management of companies with the participation of the Republic of Estonia in order to ensure their effective, purposeful and professional management by the shareholder. According to the Working Group, it is equally important to have competent and experienced professionals, as well as to have a fair and transparent selection process for the members of the Governing Council. Last year, on 3 October, Minister Palo signed the founding documents of the Rail Baltic Estonian holding company. The sole shareholder of the holding company will be the state of Estonia and the meeting of shareholders will be the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure as the manager of the company's participation. The board of directors of the management company was also appointed. It is known that there was no public competition for its completion, but it does not match the objectives of the working group set up in 2013. The main task of the established holding company Rail Baltic Estonia is to represent the interests of the Estonian state in the Baltic States joint venture RB Rail AS, which includes, among other things, preparation of financing applications, design, construction and other procurements and the preparation of a business plan. Thus, through this company, all the money from the European Union funds, which is intended to build a railway line, will start to move. It is therefore very important that the entire company's activities are transparent and verifiable and coincide with the wish of the working group convened by the Minister himself in 2013 to ensure that the process of electing members of the Supervisory Board is fair and transparent. In this regard, we have asked the Minister three questions and we ask them to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U4	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Last year on 16 December we gave a number of colleagues...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U5	One moment, please! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U6	Urve Palo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, must answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U7	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have addressed me with questions related to the process of electing members of the Management Board of OÜ Rail Baltic Estonia. I will answer the questions raised in your inquiry. The first question: 'What concrete conclusions have been drawn from the working group's discussion paper 'Proposals to organise the administration of Estonian companies? '" Clearer and more transparent management of the work of state enterprises has been one of the objectives of the current coalition, and the drafting of a Green Paper on the governance of state enterprises is also one of the points of the coalition agreement. Governance of state companies in itself is a matter of the administration of the Ministry of Finance, but the Ministry of Economic Affairs has taken every initiative. We have developed our proposals for corporate governance in the Republic of Estonia, and we have also participated in numerous meetings of the relevant working group organised by the Ministry of Finance and have previously studied and represented the opinions of representatives of private business. Currently, the Green Paper prepared by the Ministry of Finance is on the Interministerial Coordination Group, including the Ministry of Economic Affairs. It's been so fresh, we're just getting to know it. It is a large document, and we will definitely make improvements to it. What they are, it is too early to say, because this document has just come and is still working. The analysis is not yet complete. I can stress that, as a minister, I have considered the topic of sponsorship of public enterprises and the election of members of the governing bodies to be the most important areas. All members of the Board of Directors of State Enterprises should be selected by open competition. I can say that, as a minister, I will soon be in my area of administration, where there are 17 state companies, demanding a competition for all these managers' exchanges, so this manager will be the chairman of the board or a member of the board. Very many of them have, by the way, been changing drivers this year because the term of office has come to an end. I have insisted that the Council organises a competition, and that has been done. I also consider it important that the expectations of the state's companies should be determined. In my opinion, their expectations should be much wider than those of obtaining dividends. The role of state enterprises in economic development must be much greater. It cannot be narrowly based on the expectation of dividends alone. The second question: 'How was the board member and board members of Rail Baltic Estonia OÜ elected? Was there a public competition for the election of a member of the Governing Board, and was the process of electing members of the Supervisory Board fair and transparent? ' The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications OÜ Rail Baltic Estonia, as the manager of its participation, establishes expectations for the managers of companies before the members of the management bodies are appointed. The Supervisory Board of Rail Baltic Estonia must work in sync with the Ministry at an early stage of the company, while it makes sense to involve private business management as early as possible. In the light of these considerations, the current Council was also set up. We expected a member of the board to know the field and experience, education, language skills, ability to work in an international company. We organised a public competition to find a member of the board. As I said, in my administration, we have found all the members of the board and the chairmen through competitions. We announced the competition through CV-Online, an online work portal, and on the website of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. In total, a few dozen candidates applied during the competition period, seven of whom were selected for the round. This was handled by our Human Resources Department, not by me personally. Of the seven candidates, the Commission selected two persons to select the minister. I met the two candidates proposed in the final rounds, considered all the arguments, and also considered CVs and conversations. The election turned out to be Indrek Squirrel, he just seemed the best. The members of the Supervisory Board are Anti Moppel, an official of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, who has been involved in the preparation process of Rail Baltic all the time it has been done, as well as business experience, namely Illar Kaasik, an entrepreneur with financial experience, and Agris Peedu, Deputy Chancellor of Administrative Policy at the Ministry of Finance. The Statute provides for the existence of up to five members of the Governing Council. There are three of them now, and there is such a plan that we will not get too big for this Council. The third question: 'Which criteria did you choose Illar Kaasik as board members and Anti Moppel as adviser to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications? ' The answer is that Illar Kaasik, as an entrepreneur, has a very long business experience as a financialist and has been active in several public sector organisations' boards and boards in the past. Anti Moppel has been the person responsible for the Rail Baltic project and its principal manager at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. He has very good knowledge and experience of coordinating this project. The election of a representative of the Ministry as a member of the supervisory board of a public undertaking is in full compliance with the applicable State Assets Act. Here I take this opportunity to thank the members of the Rail Baltic Council as well as the other good private sector representatives who are involved in the boards of state companies, and it is very statesmanly to find time and strength to participate in the management of state enterprises alongside their daily work. It is noted that the Ministry of Economic Affairs is able to pay EUR 180 per month for the responsible work of the members of the Rail Baltic Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U8	Questions for the Minister. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! There are 17 companies in your administration. As I understand it, the members of the board of directors are elected objectively, openly and by competition, and the composition is approved by the board of directors of the company. To make sure that they really make a neutral, objective choice, please tell us how many members of the Riigikogu are in these 17 company councils and how many of them belong to the opposition centre party!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U10	As far as members of the council are concerned, the Social Democrats do not consider it right that members of the Riigikogu participate in the work of the councils of state companies. You will not find members of the Riigikogu belonging to the Social Democratic Party in the council of any state enterprise. We have kept our words and deeds together. When we talk about the Reform Party, our coalition partner, they have not made such a promise and have not acted accordingly, so reform party members of the Riigikogu are members of the councils. Personally, I don't think it's right, but that's the policy of the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U11	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U12	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. In your answers, you said that companies should not aim at making dividends to the State. So how do you comment on today's news that Eesti Post is planning to close again some 40 post offices? Does this not mean that the aim of the Estonian Post is to earn dividends for the state? How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U13	As I said, making dividends should not be the only goal. In the same way, we are talking about Eesti Energia, for example, to consider that Eesti Energia is looking at the picture more widely. But he cannot do so unless the general meeting has given such an order. At the same time, vulnerable families could benefit from more favourable or even free entry. It is a broader policy that the state can prescribe for its businesses. When we talk about the Estonian Post, it is certainly important that the Estonian Post network is one that covers the needs of people across Estonia for postal services. But Eesti Post was not the subject of a specific inquiry, and so I do not have any figures in front of it. We can continue this discussion another time. The concerns of Eesti Post are that we have places where the number of residents has decreased so much that the office of Eesti Post is open a few days a week for a few hours. There's just no people. I've seen statistics that some offices are visited by a couple of people a week. I invited Jürgen Ligi, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Post, and Aavo Kärmas, Chairman of the Management Board of Eesti Post, to explain the reasons for this. I was also very concerned about information from the press, as if post offices were closed and turned into post offices. I wanted to find out what it meant and what the plan was. As I said, there is a general concern that in certain places the post office is open for a few hours a week, because there are few people. The exit plan now sees the creation of post offices in such a way that an agreement will be made with the local shop, which will provide the postal service that Eesti Post is required to provide in accordance with the law. The usual person even wins because the store is open for more days and longer than it was at the Estonian Post. True, certain services such as identification of the person and sale of concert tickets, which are not the basic services of Eesti Post, will disappear with the transfer to the post office. But basic mail services remain. However, I say here that any such decision must be considered ten times before it is cut once. This must really be justified and, as a result, the service must not get worse for people. As I said, thanks to the fact that the post office in the shop is open at many more times, the service will improve. This should be the basic principle on which Eesti Post makes its decisions, and that is what I want to see in their actions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U14	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I do not share your view on the Estonian Post. I believe that Eesti Post is not a normal state company and that if at least one person is left in the rural area, who wants to buy a brand from the post office, this post office must be open. However, from this point of view, the non-membership of the members of the Riigikogu in the boards of state-owned companies. As you know, as a Social Democrat, you have tabled such a bill, but unfortunately it has not gone any further. Don't you have enough power in the coalition to push it through? Well, in our committee, it stands and it stays in that drawer. I now ask about the members of the Rail Baltic Council. It is perfectly understandable that both Moppel and Peedu are both ministerial officials and the law states that there must be a representative of both the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Finance in this council. But the third member is Illar Kaasik, who is a member of the Social Democratic Party, even the chairman of the Viimsi Department and your good partner from the days of Viimsi. Is it by chance that the third member of the council is a member of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U16	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U17	Your information is totally wrong. Illar Kaasik is not a member of the Social Democratic Party and does not belong to the Viimsi Department. There were no statements of truth, except that Illar Kaasik was a member of the Rail Baltic Council. I don't know how to comment here. But I want to sort out what concerns the Estonian Post. I guess you didn't listen to my answer, or I answered so badly that it was hard for you to understand. I'll explain again. Estonian Post is not a normal company, and that is why it has so many offices across Estonia, also in rural areas, where very few people live. This is provided by law for the extent to which a postal service must be available to a person everywhere, how far a post office may be from one of the so-called smokes. Estonian Post also follows these rules. Now, if the Estonian Post closes a classical post office somewhere and replaces it with a post office, it means for people that something will get better for them. The post office is currently open maybe a few days a week, but the store is open almost every day. Whether Eesti Post should also deal with identification or sell concert tickets is a topic of discussion. But in the classical sense, which is also stated in the law, postal services must guarantee people everywhere in Estonia. Like I said, these radiuses are in the law, and the law must be observed. As a minister, I have no intention of relaxing this law or extending these radiuses.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! We have 17 companies. It is important that their decisions are not politically biased, and that is why my colleague, Mr Stalnukhin, asked you his question. But he's a very thorough person, always wants to go deep, and maybe it was too much to ask of you. I will ask the same question in a simpler way. Can you tell me how many members of the Reform Party are in these 17 corporate councils and how many members of the Centre Party? If you do not know the exact figures, please tell me who is more there, either members of the Reform Party or members of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U19	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U20	Unfortunately, since I haven't gotten any statistics like this, I don't know which one is more than that right now. I have not asked for such statistics.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Since questioning is about corporate governance, I'm asking you this question. Would you find so much strength and will in yourself to change the situation where Elering is not in the service of the people, but the Estonian people are in Elering's service? Considering our network fees, that's what it looks like.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U22	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U23	I think we can do this more precisely in the next question. This is precisely the case for the price of electricity, which is known to consist of about 50% of network charges.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U24	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I just came to the remote to say a few sentences. First of all, thousands of people are watching this session, and there may be some kind of misunderstanding. They should be explained why the 17 companies that belong to the State or where the State is a shareholder are only representatives of the Reform Party in the councils. The IRL was kicked out of them, they did not go into them because they have such a principle, and the members of the Estonian Central Party Group have never been in them in at least the last four years. So it's a clean win for the Reform Party. If any Council wants to take a politically biased decision, it can only respond to the taste of the Reform Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U25	There are no further requests to speak. Is there anything the Minister would like to add? No, I don't. I will close this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U26	Our next item is the question of inquiry by Urbo Vaarmann, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Heimar Lenk, Viktor Vassilyev, Kadri Simson and Lauri Laasi, who will take the floor immediately on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U27	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, This enquiry was submitted last year on 17 December. Hence this text. By 1 December of each year, Elering shall prepare and publish on its website an estimate of the amount of renewable energy support for the following calendar year, the volume of network services provided to consumers and the amount of electricity consumed through producer lines. On this basis, the renewable energy charge will be set for the following year. Elering has announced that next year the renewable energy fee will rise to EUR 0.89 per kWh. This year this fee will be 0.77 euro cents, which will increase by 15.6%. In addition, the consumer's electricity bill reflects a fee of 5.4 euro cents for network services, 0.447 euro cents for electricity excise duty and VAT. Thus, the renewable energy charge will be 6.2% next year, the electricity excise duty will be 3.1%, the network service fee will be 37.7%, VAT will be 16.7% and electricity itself will be 36.3% of the total electricity bill. Compared to 2010 electricity bill, electricity prices have increased by 158%, network charges have increased by 141%, renewable energy charges by 229% and electricity excise duties by 140%. Here are three questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U28	Urve Palo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will also answer this question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U29	Dear Chairman, Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. I will answer three questions concerning the price of electricity. The first question: 'How do you evaluate the electricity bills of the Estonian people today? Is it reasonable to have 63.7% of the electricity bill for public charges? 'The second question: 'The European Union has set a minimum rate of electricity excise duty of EUR 1 per megawatt-hour of electricity. The excise duty rate in force in Estonia is almost 4.5 times higher than the minimum rate established by the European Union. Why does the Estonian state act so hostile to its people? ' And the third question: 'What concrete steps are you planning to take to ease the electricity bills of the Estonian people? ' Since these questions are interrelated, I will answer at once. Yes, for the electricity consumer, the final price is made up of three components: network charges, national charges and electricity as the price of the goods themselves. Two of the three components of the electricity consumer price are controlled by the Estonian state: network charges for both transmission and distribution of electricity and state taxes. I will now speak of all three components separately. First of all, the network charges. The electricity network charge is approximately 50% of the final consumer's electricity price, excluding VAT, i.e. half of the electricity bill. Network fees are established in Estonia by the Competition Authority. In the case of network charges, the three main cost components are as follows: Investments, including allowed small production for the renewal and construction of the electricity grid, compensation for network losses and fixed costs, including maintenance costs. The network charges shall be coordinated by the network operator with the Competition Authority for a period of three years. The Competition Authority will review network charges once a year in accordance with a defined methodology to ensure a reasonable cost-based network service price. Changes in prices may be initiated either by the network company or by the Competition Authority. When comparing network charges with those of other countries, it is important to take into account taxes applicable in different countries, fixed charges, as well as customer groups with as similar consumption volumes as possible and network areas of similar size. Nearly the same annual consumption volume and the size of the fuse are 18% higher in Finland and 29% higher in Sweden than in Estonia's largest electricity distribution network operator in Elektrilevi network area. For some groups of customers, network charges may also be lower in Finland as they contribute to maintaining network readiness in the form of fixed charges for all consumption places. This means that a person who does not actually use electricity has a country home or does not live in another place all the time in Estonia will not pay for it if the electricity bill does not come. In Finland, however, this fixed fee must also be paid every month if electricity is guaranteed.• whether electricity is consumed or not, it is not important in this case. This model of payment allows for a more favourable maintenance of the kilowatt-hour-based component of the network fee. In Estonia, there is a prevailing kilowatt-hour basic fee, which means that zero consumption places do not contribute in the form of network charges, but network readiness costs must also be borne by the network company. Such consumption sites are around 45000 in the electricity distribution area. The evolution of network service prices is influenced, inter alia, by the volumes of electricity consumption and the geographical location of consumers. In less densely populated countries, where less electricity passes through line kilometres, maintenance of the electricity grid per consumer is more costly than in countries with more compact electricity grids. The Estonian electricity grid is nearly four times less electricity per regular kilometre than in Spain or England and one and a half times less than in neighbouring Finland. The price of the network service also depends on the technical condition of the network, i.e. the continuity of the upgrade of the electricity network. In Estonia, at the end of the Soviet era and in the 1990s, the distribution network was almost not renewed and this is also the result of the current higher investment needs. The main challenges associated with distribution networks are to reduce faultiness and to make networks weatherproof. In 2013 there were 56% weather-related failures on the network of Elektrilevi OÜ and 29% network-related failures due to the age of the network. It shows how old our network is. The share of weatherproof cables was only 1/4 or 25% in 2013. In the case of network charges, the most important criterion is our own understanding of the extent to which we invest in a new electricity network. It is therefore a classic dilemma, either to try to ensure the reliability of the network or to ensure that the network fee is small. The Energy Economic Development Plan 2030, developed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, aims to achieve a climate-proof network share of around 80% by 2030 instead of the current 30%. About half of the network would be made up of underground cables and the rest would be overhead lines. All of this is achieved in the case of distribution networks at the current level of investment and the level of network charges, i.e. network charges, would not increase if we reached the objective that 80% of the airtight networks in Estonia are really in place of the current 30%. However, if we are prepared to bring this target down, it is possible to talk about a tariff reduction for network charges. But then, again, people are not satisfied with the quality of electricity supply, which is poor and certainly wants to be significantly improved. Speaking of electricity, the price of electricity as a commodity itself currently accounts for approximately 36% of the consumer price, excluding VAT. The electricity price in Estonia has been stock exchange based since the full opening of the electricity market in 2013 and is formed according to the ratio between demand and supply on Nord Pool Spot trading platform. The price of domestic electricity consumption in Estonia to domestic customers did not include a CO2 component until the end of 2012. This means that, despite the opening of the electricity market at the beginning of 2013, the price of electricity would have increased anyway. This would also have happened in the case of a captive electricity market as the price would have been added to the price component of CO2 according to EU standards. Since the beginning of 2013, the price of CO2 has remained slightly below EUR 10 per tonne, which in the case of Estonian oil shale electricity would go directly to the price of electricity. Thus, in the case of an open electricity market, electricity prices have remained more favourable than would have been in the case of a captive market, when we should have produced all electricity to the domestic consumer in Narva power plants. I recall that, when the market was closed and the price regulated, electricity cost EUR 31 per megawatt-hour. There would now be an additional EUR 10, or EUR 8 CO2 fee, so we would talk about EUR 40 per megawatt-hour. However, for example, the stock exchange price was EUR 33 per megawatt-hour in January 2015, i.e. the price is now cheaper than it would have been on the captive market. But this price is fluctuating. In mid-2014, for example, it was EUR 37,61 per megawatt-hour. The market price of electricity is not shaped by the state, while the electricity market itself is shaped by the Estonian state with its neighbours and the European Union as a whole. It is certainly in Estonia's interest that the market price for electricity in our region is as favourable as possible, and that is why we need as much of these connections as possible with both Western Europe and Northern Europe. Currently, additional capacity is also being built in the Latvian direction. Finally, I will talk about national fees. National charges on the electricity bill are VAT, excise duties on electricity, renewable energy and cogeneration. The national charges in the final customer's electricity bill represent the following percentages: VAT 20%, electricity excise 4% and renewable energy fee 8%. In the case of VAT, no differences have been made for electricity consumers in Estonia, a uniform 20% VAT is applied, including for all components of the electricity bill. This is certainly a political question as to whether the uniform value added tax (VAT) that applies in Estonia is correct. Elections are coming up, and we can certainly discuss these issues. We have a relatively high VAT rate. Electricity excise duty has been applied uniformly to all groups of electricity consumers in Estonia, and it is indeed 4.5 times higher for domestic consumers than European Union standards allow. It is also a question of deciding whether we should apply the current electricity excise duty or whether we could also use the minimum standard. This would mean that if we were to use the minimum standard allowed in the European Union, it would have an effect on the human electricity bill by about 3%. And if we take the average annual consumption of 3000 kilowatt-hours, a person would win about EUR 1 per month, EUR 12 per year. However, this would amount to 26 million a year for the state budget. It's a decision-making place again. In the past, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has made proposals to the Ministry of Finance that electricity excise duties should be reduced in Estonia. When we talk about subsidies for renewable energy and efficient cogeneration, they have been created to make electricity production in Estonia cleaner. Thanks to these subsidies, Estonia is a country where the increase in the share of renewable electricity is one of the largest. We have a share of renewable energy of 14%. The amount of the renewable energy charge is calculated in accordance with the regulation provided for in the Electricity Market Act and the Ministry of Economic Affairs has prepared a legislative amendment to change these charges. The aim is that electricity produced from renewable sources and from efficient cogeneration will be supported by the Estonian state only to the extent of international obligations, and not more. This means that if the current support scheme restricts wind-only electricity, the support scheme developed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs would allow the payment of additional support for renewable electricity only to the extent of Estonia's 2020 renewable electricity production target, not more. In addition, the legislative amendment that we have made precludes the over-compensation of electricity generation from renewable sources. The electricity consumer pays renewable energy support only to the extent necessary for the entry of renewable technologies into the market and for overcoming market failures. This scheme has been authorised by the European Commission for State aid. This draft electricity market law is still being processed in Parliament, but we have made our proposals. I very much hope that this law will be adopted quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U30	Questions for the Minister. Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U31	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In your reply, you stayed long and hard on distribution charges and electricity, but the main culprit of the network charges, if you could say so, is in fact Elering. Elering's network charges have been increased by 42% since 2009. There is certainly a reason here that EstLink 1 and EstLink 2 needed to be built, as well as an emergency station. You could understand that, but now there is no way to understand that this year, Elering will give 20 million euros to the state budget in accordance with the State Budget Act. This money has been collected with network charges. And what is even more amazing is that Elering is now planning to increase the fees for renewable energy, because the costs are higher, but at the same time it pays dividends to the state budget. A company that doesn't produce anything itself, but collects fees, costs huge amounts of bets, that's what people don't understand. Unfortunately, among others, I do not understand either. Perhaps you can explain why Elering pays 20 million dividends while increasing renewable energy tariffs?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U32	There is no direct link between the dividend and the network tariff. According to the Electricity Market Act, network operators are not free to calculate and set network tariffs; they must follow closely the Competition Authority's methodology. According to this, the formula for the calculation of network charges does not include a component such as dividends. Therefore, the amount of the network tariff is not dependent on payment of dividends or non-payment of the budget. As far as we know, none of the Member States of the European Union have such a methodology for calculating network charges, one of which would be the dividends to be paid. While there is an indirect link between dividends and network tariffs, it follows from the logic that, if dividends are not excluded for a longer period of time, they increase equity and equally reduce the share of foreign capital in the structure of capital. However, the competition authority should then take into account the change in the structure of capital for the benefit of equity in its methodologies, and this would be a consequence of increasing network charges, since equity is always more expensive than foreign capital. However, the logic that you have brought about has no connection to network charges. If the State were to succeed in reducing network charges at the expense of dividends paid to the state budget, this would be interpreted as State aid within the European Union's legal area. As far as we know, however, the European Union's right to support vulnerable electricity consumers, but not all electricity consumers, including business consumers. This would distort competition between electricity consumers in the countries of the European Union and would certainly require authorisation of State aid granted by the European Commission. I understand the question makes sense, but if you go into its contents, there's really no connection. If Elering did not pay dividends to the State, the network fee would not decrease. If a hypothetical calculation was made that if the European Commission were to grant State aid authorisation and the Competition Authority would enforce a new methodology for the calculation of network charges, which would also include a dividend component, it would still not be possible to reduce the revenue generated by network charges to the same extent as the non-payable dividends. The reason is the long-term loan agreements of the network operators, which set out certain ratios for which the loans should be repaid in case of non-compliance. According to Elering's loan agreements, network charges could be reduced by only one-sixth of the non-payment of dividends. Thus, if the dividends of EUR 20 million were not paid, network charges could be reduced by EUR 3,3 million under the terms of the loan agreements. If it is distributed to all consumers in Estonia, we will get EUR 0.00.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U33	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In your reply, you gave an example of the current network charges rates in our neighbouring countries. I understand from your answer that Estonia's network charges are still small enough and we still have room for improvement to raise tariffs? Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U35	It was your own interpretation, I certainly didn't say that. But I like to consider some of the topics whenever possible, to always consider the context, not to look at it alone. We do not live isolatedly in this world; the Estonian state is not located alone on an island. We need to look at what is happening around, and I simply mentioned it as a comparison that there are even higher network charges in Finland and Sweden. It has been repaired on the basis of the same annual consumption volume and the same fuse size. The context of Estonia has therefore been taken into account. It had no other purpose than to give a broader view. Unfortunately, the problem in Estonia is that Estonia has been dispersed. We have people living far away from each other in rural areas, there are few, but they also have the right to electricity. They too have the right to want electricity to be of high quality and not to disappear with every little wind or to sway. But for all of this, investments must be made, and people living in densely populated areas will indirectly pay off the grid connections through their network charges. This is the principle of solidarity. Otherwise, we would not be able to live in the country at all because no one can pay for it. However, if we had the right number of people coming from somewhere in rural areas, this would certainly help to reduce the tariffs on network charges, because there would be more payers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U36	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U37	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I like to compare us to our neighbors, too. Recently, an analysis revealed that electricity, water and heat are 1.65 times more expensive in Estonia than in Finland. And let's not talk about people's standard of living here. At the same time, for example, in Latvia, the excise duty on electricity is four times lower than in Estonia. And now you're saying there's nothing going on with the government and everything's in place, but it's the government's investment plan, it's how much is actually invested. Should we now go further in a few decades than the Nordic countries have achieved with their large investments? I mean, all the power comes from the cable. People just can't pay for it. For me, however, the question is that Elering's gonna make a good profit and he's an electricity company. What kind of money is he gonna buy gas lines for? Is Elering gonna buy gas lines for the money he's been saving for his electricity?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U38	When it comes to buying gas routes, Elering has two options: to borrow and the Estonian state can contribute to it as a contribution. That's right. If we talk more broadly about comparison and the price of electricity, then yes, I also think that the price of electricity in Estonia is relatively high. As Minister, I mentioned three components of which it is made up and said that, apart from network charges and taxes, the price of electricity is objectively on the stock market. And the stock market price, let's face it, is actually more favourable right now. If we had not established connections with the Nordic countries and opened up our electricity market, we would now pay more for electricity. It's a fact, no emotions. But when we talk about network charges, really half of the electricity bill in Estonia is made up of network charges. And that's the question of what our people want, whether they want our demoted electricity grid to be improved, that its reliability is increasing, that more and more lines are being put in the ground, so that weather conditions are not affected. I have already said that if we maintain the network charges, it will be possible to significantly increase the share of these networks by 2030. If we agree that only the cities have a permanent electricity connection, and in the country we accept that the situation is getting worse because the networks have been depreciated, we can also pay less. That's the dilemma we're facing. If we are talking about taxes, yes, it is a more general political question whether VAT of 20% is what we think is right and good. When the Social Democrats were expelled from the previous government, one of the reasons was that we did not agree that VAT was raised from 18% to 20% in difficult times. This was done without us, after the Social Democrats had left the government, because we did not agree to it. As far as excise duty is concerned, yes, excise duty is higher in Estonia. I think that one euro per month is also a lot of money. If we reduced the excise duty to the EU standard, people would win an average of EUR 12 a year. It is true that for the state budget this means a loss of EUR 26 million, which must be compensated for something. These are all the decision-making places that the Ministry of Finance has to look at. But it is true that basically the price of electricity in Estonia is relatively high.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U39	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Secretary! Your rebirth a year ago is amazing. I remember you in this room when we held a night hearing in 2012 and demanded that the government lower the electric excise duty. About the same time you wrote an article in Postimees on 24 October 2012, where you conclude that the government can reduce people's electricity bills by 16% with quite simple means. When you answered several questions, you said that it was a political decision and could do so and could do so. You are a politician, and now you are no longer a opposition politician, you are now a minister. Why have you not taken one step in this year to reduce the electricity bill for 16% of people? Is this about involuntaryity or something else? You're a coalition politician and a minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U41	The Social Democrats have been in government for less than a year, and the work we have done this year is amazing. If you look at all that the IRL failed to do in eight years with the briefcase of the Minister for Economic Affairs and also with the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, I do not have any belief that IRL still wants to fulfil its promises when it comes to power. It's like they have a new birth now that they're not allowed to do everything! But let's take the child support, which, thanks to the Socialist Government, rose more than twice from 1 January. For ten years, it stood on the same level. Onward, free school food for the end of the upper secondary school, the country supports. Or we will only take the Ministry of Economic Affairs before we were able to talk about the fact that we should compete and find a more favourable solution as a result of the contest open to ferry connections. We've done all this. We are also talking about the authorisation of state aid in support of renewable energy. For two and a half years, it was only said that this permit was needed. I took this thing and it's been cleared. If you are now adopting the Electricity Market Act, there are no more obstacles to doing so, because the State aid permit for renewable energy charges has been obtained, then we will no longer compensate for renewable energy. On the contrary, new capacities will only be created based on taxpayers' money as much as European Union standards require. Similarly, there is no overcompensation in the sense that if the market price for electricity is high, less support will be paid, and if it is low, a little more. And that's to make sure that the investments come into the market at all. So the list we've been able to make in a year is a long one. For example, we are talking about SMS loans. The previous government only managed to tell us all these years that something had to be done. The current government has very specifically introduced three different packages into the Riigikogu since the ban on the advertising of the loan and ending with the ban on arbitration and the charging of the percentage of the charge. I do not know why the Central Party Group did not support this draft last time in this Chamber. I hope that next time you will do this and show how much you really care about the people of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U42	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! 23 and a half years have passed since Estonia regained independence. It is a little funny to hear the talk in this hall that network charges are high because the networks need a lot of investment, and that is because there was not enough investment in this area in the Soviet Union in the 1980s. My question is more philosophical. How many more decades do you think the argument that there was nothing left to do in the Estonian SSR is going to work, and that is why prices, including the price of electricity, are rising? Will it take another 10 years, 20 or 30 years? It's been 23 years. How many more years will the ministers answer to us, referring to history?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U44	I am talking about facts and the facts are that in 2013 there were 56% weather-related failures on the network of Elektrilevi OÜ. This shows that connections are too exposed to weather. The network's age-related faults were 29%, or one third. The networks are gradually being upgraded, introduced, renovated, etc. It's all very expensive. Unfortunately, if we were to accelerate this process significantly, we would not talk about the fact that network charges represent 50% but considerably more on electricity bills. I think that the people of Estonia are simply not prepared to pay more. The network charges are already very high. However, the reason is that the networks have still been depreciated, although they are gradually being updated. But this field of work is very large.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U45	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U46	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister! Sots, of course, have one strong point: they are very good at talking about their achievements. I'd say they've really been remarkable. Last year, the Cohabitation Act, the Child Protection Act, the Work Capacity Reform, really got such 'like' things done to Estonia. But as far as the economy is concerned, we are going to settle the score here, who is a friend of the people and who is not a friend of the people. Madam Minister, please tell me if you are aware of this problem that has arisen on the VKG. Three years ago, it was the best company in Estonia, received an award from the President, etc. But now, according to last week's information, 233 people have been fired and several hundred have received notice of dismissal. This is for one simple reason: the coalition and your ministry will not be able to take a swift and constructive decision to grant the permit to extract oil shale from the ground to this very same VKG. Bureaucracy stretches and stretches, and it seems that the next Riigikogu will solve this issue. How does that excuse us and you to the people who are currently unemployed? It is also likely that if this is not resolved as a matter of urgency, the possibility of going back to work will become null and void. The second question: what is the second city after Tallinn, where one of Estonia's largest transits goes through? I'm not even going to name it. That's what you and everyone else in this room should know. But if the European money allocated to transit routes is shared, the most important street in Narva will remain without this support? The money is given to all parts of Estonia, but the section of the Narva-Tallinn highway, which is broken every year by tens of thousands of heavy goods vehicles and which the city simply cannot fix, will not be supported. Who are the people's friends, and who are the enemies? You can talk about your achievements elsewhere in front of the people; however, there are people in this Chamber who are aware of what you have actually done and what you have failed to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U47	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U48	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The government has changed, but the people who went under the window of the Minister for Economic Affairs to protest against the high price of electricity feel they have to do it again, this time under the window of Urve Palo. While in opposition, the Social Democrats were with us on the issue of electricity prices on one side of the front line. Now, being in power, they have conveniently set up to sit on a boat with Taavi Veskimäe, the chief architect of large network charges, as well as windmill men. What is the cause of this mystical transformation? Does the Reform Party not allow the Socialists to stand up for their promises and to meet people in difficulties, or has the power confused the head of the Social Democrats and made them retreat from their principles? Electricity is not a luxury commodity in our climate. The previous and current government has behaved like an enemy of the people by raising the price of electricity, pinching people from where it is not possible to make choices whether to consume or not. In this, the government in office is no different from the previous government. The Socialist electoral slogan could also be 'Home expenses below! ', just like Juhan Parts and IRL. I wonder why the IRL won't allow home expenses to go down any more. Maybe they think they're already down. So if you base the price on electricity, it doesn't matter whether you choose the IRL, Socats or Reform Party, it still takes one out. The only party that really wants to reduce network charges and electricity excise is the Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U49	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U50	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I want to stop at Elering's network fees again because Elering has actually become a tick on the price of electricity who's sucking the money out of it. The Minister explained in detail that the Competition Authority would coordinate the price components and there would be no dividend component among them. No one's ever been that simple, didn't think there should be a dividend component. Of course not. Only who's made a mistake here? Has the Competition Authority put in place such cool conditions for Elering that profits run in huge numbers so that it can be paid off, say, bank percentages, and there are still 20 million more to pay out dividends? We all understand very well that dividends are paid out of profits and there is no separate component for this in tariffs. But if there was so much profit, why pay dividends? The Minister complained about the need to clean up the nets. Why is there no profit in investments? It's a question. While profits were already in place, when the Competition Authority had set such excellent tariffs that profits would even flow over, this money could be used to clean up the networks, not to withdraw dividends from it. That question still got mixed up. Here we have been compared to our northern neighbours and others. There was a representative energy conference in the Riigikogu during the autumn, where the Ministry also introduced the new energy development plan. In one report, figures were reported that electricity transport costs in Estonia are the highest in Europe, namely EUR 10.8 per megawatt. By comparison, in Finland it is EUR 7 per megawatt, in Sweden EUR 2 and in Germany as much as EUR 1 per megawatt. So much for comparing with the neighbors. Elering has increased transmission system charges by 42% since 2009, and the main component of network charges is the transmission system charges. The Minister referred to the poor quality of the distribution network and the need to improve it. However, it must be said here that, in particular, the charges for the distribution network have not increased much in recent years. Yeah, they've grown, but you can't compare that to Elering's core network fees. When these tariffs were increased in 2009, the justification was that an EstLink 1, EstLink 2 and Kiisa accident station had to be established. Now they're done. We all understand that there are still bank loans, many years to pay back the money. But if there's still so much profit left that you can already take dividends, and there's no more investment, there's something wrong. At the time when the tariffs were raised, the promise was that once all the necessary investments were made, network charges could gradually be reduced. I would like to stress once again that we are talking about particularly high network charges, precisely in relation to the core network. Tariffs in the distribution network have not increased so much, although it is in the distribution network that the main problems are that the substations are out of order in stormy weather. They really need to be fixed, as the Minister emphasised here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U51	There is no further request to speak. Would the Minister like to speak? No, I don't. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U52	Free mike. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U53	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, This is my 936th performance in this Riigikogu and probably the last one, so I would like to say a few words about the most important thing. In recent years Estonia has had many 'excellent' achievements. We are either in the lead or among the leaders when it comes to AIDS, alcoholism or drug addiction. We are characterised by poverty, starving children, enormous labour migration, growing and coming up with problems in education, health care, the social sphere in the near future. And as one survey carried out in Europe has shown, Estonia is, according to its inhabitants, the most unfortunate country in Europe. Our economy is in a dark and narrow place that I would not like to mention. This is also evidenced by the humiliatingly low wages. We have lost our face, we do not have our foreign policy. "Citizen society" is considered to be some kind of mockery. There's lies and lies everywhere, in official statistics and in the mass media. We are also a country of victorious egoism. In the moral plan, we're kind of going back to the Stone Age. For example, the Ministry of Culture has not thought about what would happen if an exhibition was performed where someone would mock the deportation of 1941 or the tragedy of 1994 when Estonia died. Thus the Ministry of Culture promised to open an exhibition in Tartu where one author mocks the Holocaust. And no one understands that this is actually a video where naked people play hawks in a gas chamber, our own model, we're like people running around naked in a gas chamber, and the devil knows why they're smiling. But it is not too late to change the political course. It's not too late to change everything. If even half of those who don't usually vote go to polling stations this year on 1 March, we can make the odds of our lives more valuable. Let those who want to spit on themselves, their children and parents stay home on March 1st. We break this door down, get out of the gas chamber and build a new life for ourselves. And this new life deserves to take a walk to the polls on March 1st. And since the last sentence is best remembered, I suggest that you do not vote electronically under any circumstances. The world hasn't seen one of those crooks yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U54	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U55	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! The working hours of the XII Riigikogu are coming to an end, and I found that right now I have the opportunity to thank all the good colleagues with whom we have been sitting in this Chamber and have done some great things. We've had night meetings here and been bullying members of the government in Question Time. There were meaningful disputes with the former Prime Minister, Andrus Ansip. Those were really good arguments, smart guy, a foil hat off in front of him! The present Prime Minister, of course, is something else, but what can be done? It's hard times, tight circumstances, smaller ministers. I want to thank the Riigikogu's guidance, which has kept this flock together. Some sheep have escaped under the window, some go behind the fence. I want to thank Eiki Nestor, who is smart to lead us now, but even more I want to thank Mrs Ene Ergma, who really managed to rule the hall very well. When my benchmate and I whispered here once in a while, he made a remark. I'm glad you didn't send me out of class. I want to thank my group, which has tolerated that I sometimes have an opinion that does not quite match the group's opinion and is allowed to vote differently sometimes. Well, one thing is your conscience, the other is the party's conscience. Most of the time, they do match up, and that's a good thing. I want to thank the staff of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu who have made sure that the house is warm and friendly, kitchen workers, police workers who have always allowed in my guests, first of all, of course, to make sure that no one brings in the bomb, but they have done it very discreetly. I want to thank this janitor who's been cleaning my office, he's done it very professionally. I've got a bunch of paperwork at home on my desk, and at home, my wife is forbidden to touch them. Just as the janitor has handled these papers very delicately, because he knows that only I personally can send all these papers to the trash bin at the end of the year. But the janitor, thank you to him, once left me with a smiley smiley smiley on a yellow paper that was very pleasant and pleasant! But, of course, most of all, I want to thank the people who sent me here to do this job for four years. I guess I've done this job the way my conscience told me, and as the oath of a member of the Riigikogu demanded. I've been sitting at meetings and all the meetings, and I haven't confused the button at the vote. If it's necessary, I've given a speech, if it's not necessary, I've kept a speech. When they said Viktor, don't go making a speech, I've been making a speech. It has not always ended well, which means there is room for improvement. That's good. Now the people who are sent to this Chamber of the Riigikogu who are not being sent will decide again. Two months before the elections, the people of Estonia are, for some reason, called lovely voters. I don't do that. People are still people, and I don't think anyone makes their choice by spreading four pencils from the street on the table and looking at what kind of pen is prettier. People still see who has done the job, who has not, and certainly the choice of people is the right one, and it must definitely be respected. Whether I'm gonna do my job here or somewhere else for the next four years, I'm gonna do it in the service of people, just as my once-given Hippocrates oath has demanded. According to this, I have so far acted and will continue to act. Once again, thank you all and for my good health to all!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U56	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U57	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I am very pleased that Viktor Vassilyev and I are not alone in this Chamber today, because the last time we held debates and speeches here, we received very interesting answers. At the same time, I am sorry that there are so few of us in this Chamber today. Because indeed, as Viktor said, it is high time to give free speeches and say what's in the heart. I would like to talk a little bit about this, too. But first of all, I want to protect the Minister for Economic Affairs of our party, Mrs Urve Palot, who gave very meaningful answers today in this speech chair. Those who may not have understood a few things at once can still read everything from the verbatim. I mean, it's not like we're gonna have to snap one finger, but we're gonna try that way. And as the Minister for Economic Affairs said, I say that the Social Democrats have been able to do much in this ten months, and we want and we will be able to do just as much in the future. Now I want to talk about a few more important issues. Anyone who comes to this Riigikogu will have the goal of doing at least one big thing. It happened that my main topic was the resolution of border issues. One example is the non-excision of fuel from the border for own use and the non-residence of waiting allowances. With these waiting allowances, it may take a week, maybe two, but then the private sector will stop cassing the waiting allowances and vehicles of categories A and B will be directed directly to the border crossing. However, when it comes to bringing fuel across the border for my own use, I could not solve this problem, and now we are running out of time. But a lot of papers have been read, a lot of enquiries have been made. The European Union directives not only force us to do certain things here in Estonia, but also allow us to organise very many things sensibly. One such option is to allow the border people to import fuel free of excise duty for their own use. When I get back to the Riigikogu, as Viktor said, I will start with things exactly where I now left off. I will start with the same momentum, and I think it will be more effective. But if it happens that someone else in Southeast Estonia will come here instead of me, I promise to help him. I believe that it is a long or short period of time, but one day it is possible that border residents can bring fuel free of excise duty for their own use more than once a month. Finally, I would like to thank all our colleagues and my friends, including the opposition bench. Believe me, working in a coalition is something other than, at times, throwing a sharp criticism in this Chamber. When Lauri said today that the Centre Party is the only one who wants to change the rates of electric excise duty, believe that before the time comes to make changes, there must be a lot of negotiations, looking for friends, also here in the Riigikogu, in order to make a difference. It's a skill, it's an opportunity, it's a big job. I really want to thank everyone in this house on every bench, in every office that used to sit up here with us some nights. It has not been easy, but it has often been very effective. I thank everyone and wish everyone health, success and happiness in their personal lives! Thank you and see you again.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-16_U58	The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 4.21 p.m.
