ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu, attention! We will begin the session of the seventh working week of the first session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to submit drafts or questions? Yes, Mr Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, I have the honour of handing over two draft decisions. First of all, regarding the end of the term of office of the XII Riigikogu and pursuant to § 56 (1) of the Environmental Charges Act, we propose to recall Aivar Kokk, Kalev Kotkas, Tõnis Kõiv and Rein Randver from the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre and appoint Aivar Kokk, Valeri Korb, Kalvi Tõvi and Mati Raidma as members of the Supervisory Board. The second draft has been initiated in connection with the end of the term of office of the members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre appointed by the Riigikogu. On the basis of § 49 (3) (1) of the Forest Act, we propose that Jaanus Marrand and Andres Metsoja be appointed members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U3	There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. I have adopted two drafts. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, now the announcements. Today, at the end of the plenary session, the founding meeting of the Estonian-Morocco Parliamentary Group, convened by Andre Sepp, and the founding meeting of the Human Rights Support Group, convened by Mart Nutt, will take place in this Chamber. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 91 members of the Riigikogu are present, no 10.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U4	We are going to address today's agenda items. The first item is Eesti Pank's Annual Report for 2014. The rapporteur is Ardo Hansson, Governor of Eesti Pank. Please! There will be up to 20 minutes for the presentation. Every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask one oral question and the representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U5	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Sir...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U6	Colleagues, attention!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U7	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Today I present to you Eesti Pank's summary of what happened in 2014. I will give you an overview of the euro area economy and monetary policy, and I will talk about the Estonian economy and the activities of the central bank last year. The euro area economy as a whole grew in 2014, but the situation was uneven across countries and overall last year's growth remained slightly below forecast. According to data from early this year, economic activity in the euro area is recovering at a moderate pace. The competitiveness of the euro area has improved as it recovers from the crisis, but the situation varies from country to country. Countries have successfully implemented reforms, but there are also countries where reforms have either stopped or returned. I would like to stress that long-term growth can only be guaranteed through reforms that increase the competitiveness of the economy. The euro area central banks can provide support to the economy in the short term, but it has a cost and can only be short-term support. Central banks are not omnipotent, and reform and clarification of the need for reforms are a task that falls on the shoulders of governments and parliaments. From the perspective of monetary policy, last year was active in the euro area. Inflation in the euro area and inflation expectations of market participants were falling last year, with the effect that the euro area central banks continued to support monetary policy. There were three key elements to a supportive monetary policy. Firstly, by decision of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank, we have reduced the interest rate at the lowest level in the history of monetary union to which commercial banks can borrow from the central banks of the euro area. Secondly, we offered longer-term, up to four years of targeted lending to euro area banks. It is important that low interest rates reach the real economy and good business projects receive funding from banks on reasonable terms. Thirdly, we launched the purchase of assets held by the private sector, including the large-scale purchase of government bonds from March this year. It's no secret I wasn't part of the government bond-buying plan. Although the first modest signs of success are apparent, we still need to be aware of the risks involved. Above all, I am thinking of the moral risk that some governments may be reluctant to undertake reforms. The interest reduction resulting from the mass purchase of bonds will temporarily make the interest rates on loans more favourable to governments. It should not be used as an argument to push the necessary but painful reforms into the future. Interest rates are only favourable on a temporary basis and provide support to governments during the implementation of the changes. If governments ignored the budget rules agreed in Europe and started to increase the debt burden further, the steps taken by the central banks will be very helpful. In addition to monetary policy, the second important task of the euro area central banks last year was the launch of a single banking supervision. The operation of this system and the thorough assessment of the assets of the largest European banks required a lot of work from central banks and financial supervisors. As a result of this work, we can be sure that Europe's larger and major banks are assessed and guarded by a common standard in different countries. Swedbank and SEB Pank are subject to uniform supervision in Estonia. We are now coming to the Estonian economy. Looking more closely at the state of the Estonian economy, Estonia's economic growth came first and foremost from the internal market in 2014, especially because of private consumption. Domestic consumption was boosted by growth in employment, a fall in unemployment, strong wage growth and a simultaneous fall in price levels. Wages grew rapidly in terms of essentially zero inflation. While growth was faster in 2014 than in 2013, it has to be taken into account that the pace of growth is not expected in the boom years of the last decade. It is difficult to accept lower than normal growth, but there is no escape from economic truths. At this stage of the development of the Estonian economy and population, the rate of growth that can be achieved for a longer period of time will be considerably lower, at 3 to 4%. Estonian consumer price inflation fell below zero for the first time since the crisis in June last year. While four years earlier the fall in prices was broad-based, in the year that ended it was mainly caused by the fall in energy and food prices. This year Eesti Pank does not forecast price growth, but wage growth drives domestic prices of products and services. One of the causes of rapidly increasing labour costs has been the decline of the working age population. Wage growth above productivity growth threatens the competitiveness of the Estonian economy in the longer term. Companies are able to temporarily cover the rapid growth in labour costs by means of profit buffers, but in the longer term, this option will inevitably be exhausted. The declining profits threaten the ability of companies to invest in productivity growth and human capital in order to do more complex and expensive work. I have said this many times, and today it is worth repeating: the key issue of Estonia's economic development is how to do more complicated work with fewer employees. The rapid growth in wage income and household consumption also increased tax revenue last year, which in turn improved the state of public finances and contributed to the small surplus of last year's state budget. It is important that the government adheres to the objectives of achieving the nominal budgetary balance agreed in the budgetary strategy and of restoring reserves. At this point, I would like to comment on the popular beliefs about central bank bond purchases and the related interest rate drop, or on the very belief that this is a free lunch and Estonia has lost it because the Estonian state does not issue bonds. We all know that there are no free lunches. Even if the central bank bought a quarter of government bonds, it's still a debt that has to be repaid. For the Estonian economy as a whole, financing of new investments with government bonds can be ineffective even if individual projects are good. Given the current low unemployment and rapid wage increases, a large part of the additional money received through the issuance of government bonds would be lost, as infrastructure projects would have to be paid much more than before. In addition, large construction projects of a temporary nature would create economic and social problems in Estonia, as after the completion of these projects, a significant number of employees in other sectors would not be employed. It must be understood that Estonia benefits from short-term bond purchases by euro area central banks. The financial markets operate on the principle of combined vessels: if interest in a region becomes more favourable, this effect will also be passed on elsewhere. Lower interest rates in the euro area mean that Estonian companies and households will receive more favourable loans. The Estonian state will also receive a more favourable loan if necessary. If the European economy is gaining momentum with more favourable funding conditions, Estonian exporting companies will also benefit from this. This is an objective which the bond purchase programme also wants to contribute to. In sum, I want to say about the Estonian economy that the growth rate of our economy has been satisfactory, because there is a lot of uncertainty in the global economy and many of Estonia's most important export markets have experienced protracted growth problems. Last year's strained geopolitical relations, including trade sanctions between the European Union and Russia, have left a mark on the Estonian economy as well, but fortunately not profound. Estonian exporters deserve recognition because they have shown flexibility in finding new markets. Exports have also been able to grow in a situation where prices on the external market are more in decline, while production costs here are increasing as wages rise rapidly. The fact that the market share of goods and services from Estonia has increased with our trading partners proves that Estonia's export production is competitive on the international market. Finally, I come to the activities of Eesti Pank. The Eesti Pank Act has given us many tasks. The first task is to keep price growth low and stable by shaping a common monetary policy with other euro area central banks and implementing it in Estonia. Secondly, we need to keep the financial system stable here, because strong and functioning banks are one of the preconditions for economic growth. In addition, we must provide the country with high-quality cash, produce timely and high-quality statistics, manage and invest in the country's foreign reserves and advise the Government of the Republic. We did it all last year. Last year the previous composition of the Riigikogu gave the central bank a clearer mandate to carry out macro-financial supervision in Estonia and we have begun to fill this mandate. The objective of macro-prudential supervision is to increase the resilience of banks and other financial sectors to systemic problems and to limit the accumulation of significant risks. This direction is taken because of an earlier boom collapse. Lessons learned. We understood that there was a need to create some instruments that we did not have in the past, and we must also have the courage to use these instruments if necessary. As a first step, Eesti Pank imposed a 2% systemic risk buffer on commercial banks. The systemic risk buffer is necessary to mitigate risks in banking due to the specificities of a small and open economy. The introduction of the buffer did not mean significant changes for banks operating in Estonia, as their capital level exceeded the requirement. It was a proactive step by the central bank to mitigate future risks. As a second step, three months ago, we enforced the requirements for granting housing loans to commercial banks aimed at preventing a possible loan boom in the future. Central bank claims currently have no significant impact on the credit market as banks behave conservatively. It is also a preventive step in the event that risks in the real estate market are expected to increase significantly in the future and that competing banks take excessive risks. The crisis management measures of the euro area central banks in recent years have been successful, but they have had a price. Both the balance sheet totals of the central banks and the associated risks have increased several times. At the same time, Eesti Pank's expanded equity ratio to monetary policy assets remains one of the lowest among the central banks of the euro area. Comparison with other euro area central banks is important as the capital-risk ratio of the euro area central banks as a whole is considered when making joint monetary policy decisions. Therefore, I think it is important that the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank decided to continue to direct three-quarters of the central bank's profit of 17 million euros from last year to strengthen Eesti Pank's capital. A quarter of the profits, or EUR 4.3 million, will be transferred to the state budget. Since 1992 Eesti Pank has allocated a total of 133 million euros of its profits to the state budget. One might ask why you reserve the central bank if, as the last instance, it is the task of the Riigikogu to capitalise Eesti Pank further. History has shown that central banks are experiencing difficulties at the same time as the general economic or financial crisis. I want to do everything in my power so that Eesti Pank should not come to the Riigikogu to ask for capital during the general financial or economic crisis. This is precisely what the central bank collects reserves to avoid. I am pleased that the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank shares this view. The preservation and investment of the central bank's assets is a prerequisite for the central bank's financial independence. The current situation in financial markets, where interest rates on government bonds have fallen to a very low level, offers new challenges to the central bank as a long-term conservative money provider. Eesti Pank has responded to changes in the operating environment and spread risks by adding additional asset classes to the investment portfolio and placing money on bond markets in more countries than in the past. The profit from Eesti Pank's investment activities exceeded the targets set several times at the beginning of the year and amounted to 22.8 million euros. Due to the fall in interest rates during the year, the bond investments were profitable, and as a result of Eesti Pank's growing equity portfolio, we also earned significant income with equity investments. In addition to earning income, Eesti Pank closely monitors its cost-effectiveness, which is why we put the sale into the Maardu manor complex, which the central bank does not need to carry out its tasks. I would have liked to have done this earlier, but it was necessary to complete the consolidation of the estate and the land under the manor. In terms of cost-effectiveness, it is worth mentioning that Eesti Pank has been given additional technical support to the Board and the tasks of macro-financial supervision mentioned above, as well as the volume of production of financial statistics. Nevertheless, the number of employees of the central bank is about as high as a year earlier, and Eesti Pank is currently the smallest central bank in the European Union. The central bank's operating costs fell to EUR 17 million last year, compared to 17.4 million a year earlier. So over the last three years, the budget of Eesti Pank has increased much more slowly than the state budget or the economy as a whole, i.e. we have become more effective in these years. Although the central bank's task is to keep inflation low and not to pursue high profits, it is good to note that we ended last year with profit. In concluding, I would like to stress that it is important for Estonia's stable development and growing well-being that we continue to be prepared to adapt to changing economic situations, to react prudently to change and, at the same time, to maintain our conservative stances on financial matters that have served us very well so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U8	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Colleagues Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U9	Thank you. Mr President of the Bank. In the near future, I believe that the banking landscape of Estonia will have major changes. While so far we had dozens of successful savings and loan associations as representatives of cooperative banking, now, as we know, a cooperative bank is being set up in Tallinn. Now, at the first stage of the creation of this bank, the interest in this matter is much greater than the creators expected. The bank has become very popular even before it opens. Next year, this bank will probably enter our banking market. As Governor of Eesti Pank, how do you comment on this change in the market or landscape? There has never been a bank like this in Estonia before.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U10	Thanks for asking. I think the law is properly built, it does not discriminate against one form of property or another. Ownership forms are all permitted on an equal basis. If anyone wants to come to the market, the procedures are clearly indicated. The Financial Supervision Authority is the authority that reviews these applications, reviews the business plan and other indicators and then decides whether or not a specific offer is correct. But, broadly speaking, competition is certainly positive. At the same time, we need to make sure that banks are built in a sustainable way so that there will never be any future risks that, for example, would create obligations for the taxpayer. But it's a technical question. I broadly believe that we could maintain the position that different species are acceptable and welcome. It's a question of a particular offer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U11	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U12	Thank you. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! Both you and your predecessors have been repeatedly asked about the availability of banking services in peripheral countries. One of your deputies has said that you cannot force commercial banks to ensure that these services are available throughout Estonia. I think the state actually has a duty to take care of all people so they can get their money. Why do we not have such national thinking here? Secondly, you spoke about the single supervision of European banks. Why, then, have single fees not been applied in different countries, for example? We know that banking services in the northern countries are much cheaper.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U13	Thank you for your question. That's the subject we've been dealing with. Last time I was standing here, I answered an inquiry on the exact same subject. This was precisely about the availability of cash in different regions. I tried then to say that it should, however, look for flexible solutions which, on the one hand, help to achieve the objective of accessing cash where it is needed and, at the same time, are economically efficient and not excessively expensive. For this reason, a working group was set up in the Ministry of Economic Affairs last year and we participated in this work. When I spoke here last time, I proposed a number of ideas, not concrete proposals, but still ideas on how such problems could be solved. Recently, Omniva began to offer a service to bring home cash. It may be expensive for some people, but I'm taking my hat off in front of Omniva, because without this service, the situation would still be worse and maybe this service will help somebody. This does not solve the whole problem, it could be further worked on. However, I do not know any central banks whose task would be to resolve the issue of the geographical availability of money. But in the country as a whole, I think this debate has begun. One might think about whether this problem can be solved in any way, how much the Estonian state can contribute or how much it would make sense to contribute to it and how much local governments, and whether commercial banks could also be asked to come up with a clearer understanding of how to solve such a problem. There will certainly be new opportunities for cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U14	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U15	Mr President, thank you very much. The European Central Bank has made a very large profit on Greek bonds, which actually makes perfect sense. It was high-risk securities. Now the fresh idea is that this additional profit should be returned to Greece through national budgets. The idea is a little foolish, but the finance ministers have decided so. The idea of paying the money that has been earned honestly to Greece simply means, from our point of view, giving live money to Greece, because the risk was real and neither the yield of securities has been taken from heaven, it is still risk-related. The risk, yes, didn't materialize in the past, thank God, it would have been missing. But why is this refund to Greece? Secondly, if this living money is going to Greece, who will pay? Will the bank pay or will the state pay? In our budget this year, this amount will be EUR 3891762.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U16	Thank you for your question. As you said, this decision was once taken in a group of euro area finance ministers. So it was a collective decision of governments. This system is structured in such a way that the estimated share of this profit is transferred. At the same time, it was confirmed that national procedures are maintained in each country for central banks to share their profits in a given year. I don't think there could be any other way. If suddenly someone calls the central bank and tells them to give them this and so much money, transfer it, it would undermine the independence of the central bank that needs to be protected. So the decision has been made by governments. This amount is estimated to be about as high as the profit. So far, profits have been made, but of course the risks are up. If we look at it in the long term, whether it is purely accounting that the transaction is profitable or not, time will show that. Whether it was right or wrong, time will show it. But one thing to keep in mind is that those people who made this decision were certainly considering alternatives at that point. Perhaps they found that, as a result of non-payment, by the way, this money has not yet been transferred to Greece, it is currently in the fund, and it is in various European countries, if I remember correctly, at the moment, about 1.8 billion euros in total could have been triggered by some very negative scenario, which would have, I do not know, undermined, for example, the economic growth of the euro area, and we would have been poorer. This must also be taken into account. In retrospect, you never know exactly what would have happened if you had behaved differently. But certainly this decision was also partly made because at that point it was perhaps considered useful not only for Greece but also for the wider system. This could be one of the least bad for all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U17	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for a very interesting and substantive report. My question is about the European Central Bank's bond buy-in programme. As I have learned from the media, Eesti Pank buys on average 100 million euros worth of bonds from other European countries every month. The European Central Bank, in turn, buys up the bonds of Italy, Portugal and other countries, i.e. essentially supports the economies of these countries. I understand that this decision is political and does not fall within your area of competence or competence, but I want to hear your comment or your thoughts on whether it would be reasonable for Estonia to issue its bonds as well. In about a year's time, we have bought bonds from the European Central Bank for at least EUR 1 billion.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U19	Thank you for your question. In recent months, we have purchased securities for around 117 or 118 million euros a month. Since the Estonian state currently does not have its own bonds, we have mainly purchased bonds from pan-European institutions. As you said, each country buys these bonds on the basis of the share of the capital key. Since our share is 0.27% of the total system, we buy about 1/400 of all these bonds. But because the Estonian state does not earn from it, I would not quite agree. I mentioned in my speech that the principle of connected vessels applies here. The capital is moving everywhere right now, looking for a return. It is not that we have a border ahead of us, and the money that is issued in Estonia remains in Estonia as well, but that money moves across the European Union. Central banks can only buy a quarter of each issue and we buy from secondary markets, other investors. It may be very easy to have some bonds issued by the Estonian state or Elering, for example, which are among someone's finances in London, for example, and when buying these bonds, the money moves to London, but maybe somewhere in Estonia some banks have some German state bonds, and the money that is issued through the purchase of German state bonds will eventually reach Estonia. I think that we will still benefit from this, and I do not think that we will start to issue massively again, because, as I said, I do not think this is very practical at the moment. A mirror image of debt issuance is a budget deficit. If we wanted to stick to the current budgetary strategy, which does not foresee major deficits, it would not serve any purpose in this sense. If we were to start issuing this money, we would have to place it at an even lower interest rate and it could even be a loss-making activity in the short term. It is not appropriate, in my opinion, to start increasing the deficit now. This also applies to other countries. Today, Germany issues bonds, but it does not do so to increase the deficit of the German state budget, rather the German State reduces the budget deficit and moves towards a surplus. At the same time, in many other countries, such as France and elsewhere, the budget is being cut. So the aim was not to make the lives of governments easier, but to move money into the economy. It looked at the channels through which it could be done most easily or with a larger volume. Half of the euro area bonds are national bonds. If money is to be provided to other market participants, it may be the easiest way to do so through the sale of government bonds. But the goal is that they get the money and do something else with it, for example, buying corporate bonds, starting to consume and invest, and that money is moving. We already feel a bit that this money is really moving from the public sector to private bonds.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U20	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U21	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! By the end of February, Greece's financial assistance programme was extended until 30 June 2015. In recent weeks it has become increasingly clear that Greece is also facing difficulties in meeting its commitments to the International Monetary Fund, not to mention other creditors. If it becomes true that Greece still fails to fulfil its obligations, what will this entail for Eesti Pank and Estonia in general? How are we protected from a possible new financial crisis that is escalating?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U22	Thank you for your question. I think that the situation is very difficult in this sense, that in fact it was already agreed on 20 February that an agreement could be reached on an accelerated basis, but now, three months later, this agreement does not appear and the clock is ticking. Regrettably, a lot of time has been lost. I think everyone is saying that they want to come to an agreement, and it would be in everyone's interest to have some kind of sensible agreement that does not undermine the foundations or basic principles. But right now, it's been going really hard. The potential losses depend very much on a specific scenario. I'm not a psychic, and I can't tell you exactly how these scenarios could start. There are certainly softer options and more serious ones. We can say that there are no Greek bonds directly on the balance sheet of Eesti Pank. But most of the monetary policy programmes are carried out jointly, which means that we jointly benefit from these programmes and share the risks. We do not have Greek bonds, but others have bought them before. Our share of the total volume of bonds purchased by the system is EUR 40.50 million. This is the most direct channel. In addition, the European Central Bank has provided loans to Greek commercial banks, which are quite well guaranteed. In this sense, it is very unlikely that the whole thing could be lost somewhere. But there are some risks up there, and that's why, as I mentioned earlier, we still want to collect some buffers. We now have these buffers for a total of around 400 million euros, which is, as I mentioned, a relatively small buffer compared to other central banks, but we could certainly manage if we were to face a more moderate crisis. If something very extensive were to occur, the losses could naturally become greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U23	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U24	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! I want to ask about the labour market. We know that, in the long term, we will have a significant reduction in the number of working hands. How do you assess the impact this will have on the growth capacity of our economy? How can negative effects be prevented?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U25	I think it has a pretty big impact. Last year was perhaps not a very normal year; however, employment increased, despite our poor demographic situation. Of course, demographic projections are not an exact science; we do not know how these processes are going to develop exactly. There is still some way to predict the natural age, but how the balance of migration will develop over the years, whether the situation is getting worse or whether it is improving, whether it is turning, we do not know that very well. But at least some demographers have predicted that our working-age population will shrink by between 0.6 and 0.8% per year or by nearly 1% per year. So it offers a serious challenge to our economic growth. Perhaps if we count per capita again, growth will not be so slow, but the situation will become more difficult. Expectations must also be corrected. We take these facts into account and do not expect a growth of 50% or 70% to come soon. How can we cope with this situation? It is certainly necessary to make sure that those who want to work in Estonia do not encounter any unjustified obstacle and can also work part-time. The labour market should be flexible enough to maintain the competitiveness of the labour market in the sense that wages are such as to encourage employers to hire people. If they're too low, we don't like it when they grow too high, even if there are problems. We already hear stories here and there that someone closes their shop and moves away from Estonia. In a situation where external migration is a very real opportunity, it is quite difficult to find a balance point. There is certainly no common simple solution, but I think that the labour market environment that supports participation in employment is certainly the best that we can do. The lion's share of economic growth must still come either through increased investment or improved competition or productivity. Our employment figures are already pretty high in the European context, our investments are already the largest in Europe, the share of investments in the economy is the highest in Estonia. So there's not a lot of untapped opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U26	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! I will continue with the question posed by Igor Gräzin. As you said, the central bank board decided to transfer EUR 4.3 million from the profit of the previous year to the budget. The State Budget Act provides that EUR 3.9 million of this will be allocated to Greece this year, so that the budget will actually not be 25% of the profit, but 2.4%. However, in the current situation, where the risks associated with Greek bonds are quite different from those of a few years ago, should not this refund be reviewed through the budget? Instead, this money could be in Eesti Pank's reserve to cover any losses associated with these bonds, so that our taxpayer may not have to start paying off this loss for the second time, for example, if the budget needs to complement Eesti Pank's reserves, because the risk-related bonds have made losses.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U28	Thank you for your question. That decision was made a few years ago. I do not know how to go to Europe now and say that we are withdrawing from this decision and taking back our money. We may judge it as positive or negative, but it seems to me that as the only country to go and say that we are now choosing another way... I think that if we wanted to have this battle, it should have been at the time of this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U29	Ivi Eenmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Bank of Estonia, thank you very much for a very correct and interesting presentation. I want to hear your views about Swedish or Nordic banks operating in Estonia. It's good to read foreign money. It's even better to be jealous and whatever. But would it be possible for large banks in other countries or other countries to create some kind of competition in Estonia? This might in some way soften the anger of the people, which politicians use very skilfully, talking about the dividend income of the Swedish banks, its non-payment to Estonia, etc. Is there any other bank possible in Estonia's circumstances so that the people can choose? We don't have that chance right now. We went over to the Soviet Union... I can't even remember what bank it was. From this bank we went to other banks, initially we had Estonian banks, but they were bought.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U31	Good colleague, one minute to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U32	Thank you for your question. We used to talk about new banks. I think the doors are open in the sense that there is no formal restriction. If anyone sees it's possible to make money here, the profits are huge, and it's possible to confirm it, then there's a chance. It seems to me that over the years, the banking market in Europe has been a bit geographically organised, let us say so. In the old days, there was a German bank, there was an Italian bank, and so on. They've closed up their store over the years and left here. We have a small country, with relatively few banks. Ideally, there could, of course, be a little more competition than we have right now. Recently, the Financial Supervision Authority granted a license to a domestic bank. But a small bank takes time to grow. We don't want him growing up too fast. So, of course, competition would be welcome. But they should be solid, decent banks that are conservative and have buffers. The biggest problem in the banking sector is sometimes not excessive profitability, but loss-making. Consider the example of Ireland. When the economic crisis began in Ireland, the public debt ratio was 25-30% of GDP, and today it is 120%. To a large extent, this has come from the state being forced to save banks. In many other countries, too, public debt has increased as a result of the need to save banks. In the meantime, this environment in Europe has been improved, so that in future this burden should be borne by more creditors, less by the state budget. But if we have to choose whether we have a little 'too profitable' or 'too loss-making' banks in the middle, then we must not forget that the taxpayer certainly does not want the burden to fall on him. So moderately remedial competition would certainly be beneficial. In 2009, our banks made 600 million losses. In the long run, they have certainly been quite profitable, but we cannot forget that there have been worse times. At least I'm positive that the banks stayed with us, they didn't give us the keys back, and they told us that we should solve this problem ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U33	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U34	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! As interest rates turn negative, several national central banks have started to discuss restrictions on the use of cash, as there is a risk that depositors will empty their bank accounts and then deposit them in cash, which in turn will lead to difficulties for banks. How does Eesti Pank feel about this, or how do you feel about it? Is that the problem, whether or not we should restrict the use of cash?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U35	Thank you for your question. I don't think we should restrict it. This restriction is most common in the Nordic countries, where, for one reason or another, the aim is to move towards a "cash-free society." It's more like a nightmare to me. I don't think we're ready for this, and there's no reason for it. I don't see the need to contrast two means of payment. In fact, electronic money has served us well, it makes our lives a lot better than it can, for example, I don't know, pay with a card at a gas station or anywhere. At the same time, however, cash is a very useful, very necessary and highly respected instrument of payment. Somehow it would be the same if we banned either public transport or private cars. I don't think that makes any sense. In fact, using cash under certain circumstances is the most sensible. He has a certain quality: he certainly gives freedom. The fact that you can take money out of a bank is also a certain freedom. I can't imagine a situation where one day it will be said that cash will no longer be valid in Estonia from tomorrow, and you will not be able to withdraw your money. Finally, I think that cash is also very useful for the country's business continuity. Many people recently experienced the interruption of the system for several hours, that if there is cash that does not connect to any system, that means that these crises do not become existential. With all these things in mind, I think it is important that cash is preserved. I do not think that banks should in any way promote one or the other method of payment. Their task is not to teach people to behave differently but to meet the needs of their customers. If a person says he wants to settle in cash and not in a card, I think he should have that chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U36	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U37	Thank you, manager. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! I will refer my question back to the topic of Estonia's competitiveness. We will soon be discussing the subject of a minimum wage of EUR 1000 in this Chamber. Here's a question for you. What could be the impact of such a unilaterally established minimum wage on Estonia's competitiveness and employment, especially in rural areas? Secondly, how true do you think it is when taxation is shifted to consumption and labour taxation is reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U38	Thanks for the questions. I'll start with the last question. In fact, Eesti Pank does not want to comment on such matters. However, we consider the details of the tax system to be a 'political' issue. We do not think that it would be up to us to comment on whether taxes should be the same or different. How exactly to tax and spend it is up to you and the government to determine it. It is up to us to make sure that the numbers are finally collapsing and the whole picture is sustainable. So I don't think it's appropriate for me to participate in such a specific fiscal debate. Coming to the minimum wage, I say that it is organised very differently in different countries. There are quite a few countries in Europe where there is no such thing at all, others have it again. The OECD data can be viewed, it's all written down. I think that the percentage, the percentage of the minimum wage in the average wage, is between 30% and 50%, it is about 40% in the middle. Obviously, the countries that set the minimum wage are looking for a balance. If it is too low, it does not fulfil its purpose, if it is too high, it will start to undermine competitiveness somewhere, perhaps in rural areas where productivity is low. So these issues must certainly be viewed with great sensitivity. The example of Switzerland is noted. There was a referendum some time ago and the people said they did not want to raise the minimum wage. I'm sure every change has its advantages and disadvantages. This should be balanced, taking into account both the interests of workers and the need for jobs to be maintained and not hampered by competitiveness.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U39	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U40	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honorable President of the Bank! In the chapter of the report on the production of statistics on the Estonian financial and external sectors, information is that the largest project in the coming years will be the creation of a database on the basis of individual loans to the European Central Bank and the introduction of this type of data collection in the Member States. Please comment on why this is necessary and who might be affected!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U41	Thank you for your question. This is the subject of discussion, nothing has yet been decided. But, broadly speaking, I think that those who are most in favour of it will see that such a thing would partly be useful for supervisory purposes. We will then have a much better picture not only of overall loan volumes, but we will get a much more detailed picture of how these loans are distributed. We can look at the links between them to understand that if there is some kind of shock, how it can be passed on, and how different banks and countries are connected. But of course, such a project has a very large volume. There are certainly issues here relating to data protection, there are issues relating to the costs incurred by banks and other institutions that have to provide all these data. If we are involved in this potential project, we will try to make sure it is minimalist at first, and we will see how quickly we can move forward with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U42	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U43	Thank you, manager. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, I am asking about fair competition in the banking market. According to Eesti Pank, commercial banks operating in Estonia earned 2.6 billion euros between 2000 and 2013. During the same period, they paid only EUR 59 million in income tax, i.e. 2.3% of the total profits earned. At the same time, the same commercial banks in Sweden will immediately pay off profits, either 22% or 24%, as I recall. In Estonia, they are placed in an absolute privileged position. Do you know any other countries in Europe where commercial banks can act as royally as they can in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U44	Thank you for your question. We have our own tax system and banks are taxed on exactly the same basis as other institutions. We have a system that says that if you reinvest your income, you don't pay tax at that moment. If we look at the indicators of the capitalisation of Estonian banks, they are extremely high, many times higher than the capital required. This means that banks have decided to raise reserves. As they collect reserves, they do not pay dividends and therefore do not pay tax. On the one hand, it is positive that they collect buffers because they have greater resistance in case anything happens. On the other hand, in the long run, we cannot imagine that you keep collecting and collecting for several decades, but you never take that money out. I think I can tell they're taking some of that money out. The problem now is not that they take their money out of here, but rather that they bring their money here and leave it here and not distribute it. I think that this problem is partly due to the specific nature of our tax system.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U45	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, Marika Tuus here spoke about poor access to cash in rural areas. This means that people have to pay for goods and services by bank card. You spoke earlier about what happened last week when banking services were very difficult to use, which made people's lives difficult. How does Eesti Pank intend to prevent such incidents? What can you do about it? Does he feel responsible for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U47	Thank you. I haven't seen incidents as extensive as last week in years. It is never 100% guaranteed that all systems will work. We're dating too, I don't know, with a car at a tech inspection that says the car's okay, but that doesn't rule out anything happening. But we are trying to avoid it, and so far it has been done quite well. There are two systems in Estonia, one is Swedbank's banking system, the other is Nets Estonia. The Swedbank system is in-house and is therefore supervised by the Financial Supervision Authority. The second system was not under supervision until the beginning of this year. So far, it was understood that although there are quite a lot of transactions there, these are small transactions and this system does not pose a direct threat to financial stability. However, with regard to the migration to SEPA last year, we reviewed the situation and found that this system still seems to us to be systemically important. However, in terms of the number of payments, it is quite important; it may interfere with the circulation of money. We saw that he was disturbing. So since the beginning of this year, we have taken this system under review. Things are in their initial stages, we've made a cooperation agreement with this institution. It's on. We share information, we review systems during this year, we publish a report and if any shortcomings appear, they can be eliminated. It's been under our increased attention since the beginning of this year, but all this will take some time. We can look at procedures and documents and see whether all systems comply with good practice. We cannot, of course, sit every day and see whether human errors occur. Never can one hundred percent be ruled out that there will be no problems between the best intentions. But from now on, this system will be under our increased attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U48	Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! At the beginning of your speech, you quite rightly said that without vigorous reforms, the Estonian economy cannot be very competitive. Do you have a position? What could be the two or three most important reforms that the Estonian state should implement without delay in order to maintain our competitiveness?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U50	Thank you for your question. This, of course, also applies to other countries. What I said was broader and perhaps applies to all the countries in the euro area. Do we have major omissions, the liquidation of which would somehow very quickly improve our competitiveness? I don't think that's enough. If we want to increase our growth potential, we have to do well in a number of areas, we get 0.1% here and we get 0.1% there, and this growth will ultimately come together. When I answered one earlier question, I also spoke about the labour market. It is difficult to point out one thing from the whole labour market issue that would not have been done, but it can still be seen whether it is possible to make the labour market work even better. It should be ensured that some people who are not currently busy and do not find a job have the opportunity to find a job, and someone who is currently living in Finland gets the chance to move back, etc. Labour market science is, in my opinion, very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U51	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U52	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President of Eesti Pank, first of all I too would like to thank you very much for a balanced, apolitical and expert overview. I will certainly note and recognise the work of the Eesti Pank Museum, as this is still a very good way to do it. Here's the question. You are of the opinion that society cannot be made cash-free. I very much support this view. But it is known that SEB and Swedbank, the largest banks in Estonia, have not agreed to use common ATMs. In fact, one bank would be prepared to start using common ATMs, which would certainly also improve the availability of cash, as there could be more ATMs in this case, now both banks are working as they do on their own route. However, access to cash is a problem especially in remote areas. Very often, it is the elderly people who have had this problem because the pension went to the bank and no one asked if it was possible to get the money. At present, only people with deep and severe disabilities have free return of their pension by the state. How do you think it's possible to agree something with these banks?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U53	Thank you for your question. The subject of uniform automatics has been discussed for several years. Finland has such a system. Whether this has significantly improved the availability of cash in Finland, we are not very sure of that. That makes perfect sense too. There are currently three automatic machines in Tallinn side by side, but there are no one in some rural areas. If a single system is created, it is not guaranteed that the company that manages it must be a profit-making or, at least, not a loss-making company, must be in a position to be able to move those automatics to areas where it would not be economically viable or profitable for it. So I do not believe that this system could have a major impact on the availability of cash. I think the solutions are different. Last time I was standing here, I was talking about all kinds of cash-back systems in stores. Such things have been created in many countries. Maybe we could do that in some way. The idea was to create a so-called "state post" where, at the same time, the postal service could be used and perhaps also communicate with the state. I know that in Sweden, for example, many post offices have moved to shops. If there is a shop that doesn't have a lot of turnover and is a post office that doesn't have a lot of turnover, and there is no way to combine them, then maybe both things are a little better, opening hours may be even longer and ultimately the service may improve. I'm sure it would be a good idea for commercial banks to come up with a vision. That could be the beginning of how they would deal with the problem. But I hope this working group, which once started working, will continue its work.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U54	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U55	Thank you. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, In your presentation, you mentioned that you believe that new financial instruments could be used more in our market. What are these financial instruments, what are they intended for and how are they going to be available for businesses?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U56	Thank you for your question. I think that Europe is a very banking-centred region, in the sense that banks are the main players in the capital market everywhere in Europe. It's different in the United States. There are all kinds of historical reasons for this. Whether it's good or bad, we're in a situation like this. I think that not only in Estonia, but also in Europe, it will be examined whether it would be possible to diversify the financial market in any way and create not only banks but also other financing opportunities. One option is certainly bond markets and the other is equity markets. Certainly we should look at whether these latter ones have any obstacles, or, for example, tax incentives, do not work in favour of some and to the detriment of others. I think a particularly good opportunity would be the stock market. If there is more equity, the whole system will be less vulnerable because there are fewer foreign resources and more own resources, and if anything happens, there will be more ownership. Surely it must be remembered that in a small market, this is all much more complicated. For example, in the United States, Poland or another major country, the market works better because there are more players and more activities. Nor can we approach too hopefully that if we do something, huge non-banking activities will immediately be unleashed. But in Estonia, an institution like FinanceEstonia is an NGO or whatever is trying to work in that direction. If these things are relatively conservatively and reasonably structured, why not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U57	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U58	Thank you to the President of the sitting. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, Unfortunately, the number of taxpayers in Estonia is decreasing and the government sector must also respond to it. The current Coalition Agreement also takes a clear direction towards reducing government expenditure in percentage terms. This certainly concerns the cost of human resources in particular. Eesti Pank has also been populistly attacked by the public, especially after joining the euro, that its structure is too over-exploited, the Council is too large or so. There are, of course, many questions from the legislator. But how do you see it, what plans do you have for Eesti Pank, as such an important and large institution, with the future human resources policy, reducing the number of employees or whatever?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U59	Thank you for your question. These questions sometimes arise, and they are very understandable. But I'll just start. I also mentioned comparable data in my speech. We now have over 230 employees. It is the smallest central bank in Europe, smaller than Luxembourg, smaller than Cyprus, smaller than Malta, with around 300 employees everywhere, around 600 employees in Latvia and Lithuania, etc. You may ask what they are doing there, if everything is actually done in Frankfurt today, why they are needed at all. But I think that all countries are facing the same problem and they have all decided, for one reason or another, that they have a lot more of these workers. Our actions are very comprehensive. Look at the structure of our organization, we're a public institution. I am quite proud that, despite the increasing number of tasks we are serving the same fiscal council, the introduction of macro-financial supervision, we have, however, been able to reduce our staff slightly in recent years. I don't see that we should start reducing it much more. Of course, we always see if it's possible to do things more efficiently, but we can't jump over our shadows. Let's look at the whole sector of the country. The Ministry of Finance or someone's website used to have a pretty thorough analysis. The state wage totals, I don't remember exactly 120,000 or 130,000 people, all together, from the wall to the wall. We're among the 200s. We are, of course, trying to improve the efficiency of the work. As I mentioned, we have raised our budget much slower than the budget has grown. This is a subject close to our heart, but I think we are approaching evolutionaryly and sensibly. Eesti Pank is a well-functioning institution that has done all its tasks well. There is no need to approach populistly, as you said, and simply to act to reduce some number. We may be able to outsource all kinds of activities and artificially suppress that number, but do we want people to walk in our quarters behind whom we don't know, etc.? I think we need to approach evolutionaryly and sensibly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U60	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! I have a question about the bond policy put in place by the European Central Bank, which you, unlike most of your colleagues, opposed. Can you tell me what the status quo is? How many bonds issued by governments have been acquired and how many bonds issued by other public institutions? Perhaps you also know the real state of the budgets of those countries whose bonds have been bought, in the hope of boosting the economy. Perhaps you are ready to comment in a few words on the hope that the Estonian state could start issuing bonds. I'm skeptical about this, but it would be good to hear your understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U62	Thanks for the questions. In my presentation, I dealt with the last subject for quite a while. Of course, this is not a taboo issue. But looking at our long-term tasks and short-term economics, we do not currently foresee that the Estonian state budget should be in deficit. We therefore see no reason to start issuing these bonds in the short term. For example, let us look at euro money. We are currently getting around 4% of GDP per year from the European Union. We pay out about 1% net, but we get about +3% of our GDP in the European Union. We can discuss whether this money has always been used effectively or not, but it is still a considerable amount that has also guaranteed us an increase in investment. If you drive around Estonia and look at the signs that something has been built with euro money, whether all these things are sensible, we do not know, but it is still affecting us right now. Hopefully we'll get richer and that's why there'll be less money in the next period. That's what shows we're richer ourselves. We should be happy about that. But this means that in the future we will have to start financing more of our own investments. Secondly, our demographic situation is deteriorating. It is already difficult to make a state budget, and if there are fewer working hands in the future, but more pensioners and more spending on health care, the pressure on the state budget, which we are now feeling, is perhaps even greater. So you could rather look at it in the context of the future. One of the OECD's recent reports was precisely worded in such a way that it should not be considered as a long-term option. I now come to the purchase programme of the European Central Bank. It amounts to EUR 60 billion per month, of which approximately EUR 10 billion is private bonds, while the remaining EUR 50 billion is bonds from national or pan-European institutions. These European institutions' bonds, which we also buy, account for 12% of the total volume, i.e. about EUR 600 million per month. The countries whose bonds we buy are all eligible for investment risk or credit ratings. At the moment, we are not buying Greek bonds, for example, nor are we buying Cypriot bonds at the moment. In broad terms, the deficit in the euro area as a whole is just under 3%, and it is on a declining trend. However, if the situation in one country should deteriorate and the rating of that country should fall in such a way that it is no longer 'investment-worthy', then we should no longer buy bonds from that country. In this sense, they are high-quality bonds.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U63	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Good Governor of Eesti Pank! I have a question about investment funds. The Government of the Republic has initiated a draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds, which aims to expand the use of pension funds' assets. I also believe that this is the right step. But how much of this is meant by the benefits and benefits of the Estonian economy and would it be realistic to use the funds of Estonian pension funds for some of Estonia's major infrastructure projects? What should be done to do this, or even to encourage it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U65	Thank you for your question. I am not familiar with this particular bill. I think that, by putting rules in place for pension funds, a balance is certainly being sought. If all the money is invested very safely, so that the risk is relatively low, then there is probably a need to move it abroad quite a bit, as it is possible to place it more in high-rated financial instruments. We, as I said earlier, do not have so much development in the capital markets, we simply do not have the opportunity to place this money here on such a large scale at the moment, without it perhaps creating imbalances in the markets. Of course, a little of this is also a question of chicken and egg. If the market could be developed, perhaps in the future there would be more and more money that could be relocated internally. Of course, from the point of view of developing our economy, it would be a good idea to place as much as possible here. From the point of view of spreading risks, it's a little different, so there's got to be some sort of balance point. If these infrastructure projects are again, I don't know, legal entities, they are essentially some kind of "public private partnerships" or even private companies, and if they issue negotiable bonds, being profitable companies, I think of course they would be eligible to invest in pension funds, at least in principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U66	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U67	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Governor of Eesti Pank! Here's the question. There's a line in the municipal school budget called "Own income." At the same time, the school is not a business, it is an educational institution. But if there's a line of self-revenue, you have to earn it. Has it ever been such a thought that this thought went through to give schools legal personality rights so that they can plan and make profits on premises, services, training and workshops? This would amount to a very large amount of school budget money and would reduce the burden on the state. Now the question arises as to whether the school leaders can handle it. But the standards of competence for school leaders are high enough; they should be able to handle not only this small thing but also the management of the medium factory. Is it possible for the State Bank to guarantee the granting of legal personality to municipal schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U68	Thank you for your question. We have not dealt with this issue. As I mentioned earlier, we would rather avoid such micro-issues. We look at the whole picture and at whether the whole system as a whole is sustainable. I do not think we have much competence to deal with the subject you have mentioned. Personally, I do not feel competent to comment on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U69	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! The government has a plan to raise a number of taxes to fill budget gaps. We have on the table a number of increases in excise duty and an increase in VAT for accommodation establishments, true, on the other hand, a small reduction in social tax is also foreseen. How do you think these tax increases affect the Estonian economy and international competitiveness?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U71	Thank you for your question. As I mentioned earlier, I would not like to appreciate these individual proposals. How do you ultimately decide whether to tax one thing or another more, that is, of course, your competence. As long as the numbers are collapsing. Of course, things could be done as planned. The more analysis and discussion can be done, the better the outcome will certainly be. But I think it's positive that we have the principle of looking for sources of cover. Apparently, many difficult debates come from knowing that certain revenues have been reduced or costs have increased, and that is why we need to find sources of cover somewhere. I think that if this principle were to be abandoned and said that no sources of cover were needed, we, as central bank, would be a little worried. Of course, you can always discuss how much pressure you should have from the bottom up and how much you should start from the top up. Is it said that there is so- and so much money to spend and then set the tax rates, or say that the tax rates are like this, and then decide how much to spend? It is probably carried out in both directions in the end, but we have not carried out such an impact analysis, exactly what impact such a specific package would have on the Estonian economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U72	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Good Governor of Eesti Pank! My question concerns the state budget and the so-called structural balance of the state budget. Many economists have criticised this structural balance. Some call this a postponement of problems to tomorrow and a non-real demonstration of the budgetary balance. How do you view the structural balance of the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U74	Thank you for your question. This is a very multifaceted issue where there is no good one solution. We have stressed that, in addition to this structural balance, a nominal balance view could always be maintained. At least it's a specific number. There's no methodological problem here, we know what the number is, and we know how to appreciate it. Structural balance is the kind of thing where assumptions already have to be used. One looks at this thing and says that the number is like this, the other looks at it and comes out with a completely different number. We are now in a situation where different institutions, the European Commission, the Ministry of Finance, Eesti Pank and the new fiscal council are dealing with the same subject and everyone has slightly different views. The European Commission said earlier that we already have a structural deficit, the government looks at and says that we have a surplus, some others say that it is more or less balanced. Economics is not an exact science or physics, and we must accept it to some extent. The main thing is that if someone comes up with this figure, there will be an effective debate, someone else can comment and ask questions. The important thing is that we're not going on this slippery path, that we're going to trick and somehow manipulate this indicator in one way or another and show the picture a little bit better than it really is. In favour of structural convergence, I think that fiscal policy, fiscal policy, can be pro-cyclical. If you're going after this nominal figure, it's in bad times that you start cutting and spending in good times. In order to avoid this, a structural deficit is intended to be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U75	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, The Estonian people are known to be a people of the faith of their home. Says a proverb that my home is my fortress. This means that they want their own living space. Unfortunately, housing is not available to all Estonian residents. Once again, it is said that the housing market is getting hot and hot, which may make access to the dwelling even more difficult. Can and how can Eesti Pank influence the processes in the housing market and direct them, or play a role in housing policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U77	Thank you for your question. We have, as I mentioned in the speech, introduced certain possible restrictions on the granting of housing loans since 1 March. This is not so much about access to housing as it is about financial stability in our country and, let us say, prevention of booms. We would not want to see a repeat of a situation where everyone for a few years is going crazy and prices are only going up, but then suddenly there is a crash, there is a huge fall and there is an increase in unemployment. There better be a balance here. We see setting some reasonable restrictions as our goal. We have imposed a limit on the volume of the loan to be 85% of the value of the collateral, the servicing of the loan should not exceed half of the person's income, and the maturity of the loan may be no more than 30 years. This is broadly in line with practice. We can see that the banks are acting relatively conservatively at this stage. Loan volumes are growing by around 3%, the economy may be growing a little faster, but it is not disproportional in one direction or the other. We would like this situation to be maintained. But one of the reasons why I was a little skeptical about reducing interest rates is that if wages are now growing very quickly, at least the average wage is rising, and if interest rates are low, then some kind of soil is created again for a new boom. I think we're all a lot smarter, and we're not gonna see a madhouse like this ten years ago. But still, there's some kind of bubble risk, and we're wondering how we can prevent it. Perhaps there is an analogy here with this situation, if, I don't know, there would be no traffic restrictions on the Tartu highway and some cars would travel there at a speed of 100 kilometres per hour, some 110 kilometres per hour. However, we would impose a limit of 110 kilometres per hour, which would not really affect anyone, because no one was driving faster anyway. But if someone were tempted to start driving at 120 or 130 kilometers an hour, if someone went a little too risky, this reasonable speed limit would happen. But accessibility, I think, is more of a matter for governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U78	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U79	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! How do you feel about crypto money, and what dangers do you see here for Estonia, or is it a pseudo-problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U80	Thank you for your question. I think it's an interesting new subject. The volume of such transactions is currently relatively small. Some people take the subject very emotionally. It's even like fanatics like religious fanatics, among whom it heats passion. At the same time, it is certainly part of technological development. Something of this crypto money will certainly survive, and perhaps in the long run, it will even help to take a step forward. I think it's up to us now to say be careful. There are a lot of risks, rates and prices are changing very volatilely. If you have money to invest, and you want to risk it, it's one place to invest, but be careful. We certainly want to make sure that there is no money laundering channel. This is a global phenomenon and its regulation, especially when the use of this money is now almost non-existent in terms of volume, is more of a future issue. This is an exciting technology issue, but we do not think it would be as important as the day-to-day payment systems right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U81	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Bank. You said that Estonia will not buy Greek bonds, yet we have done so through the European Central Bank and the ESM. Our share is pretty big there. It's hard for me to say how big, you might know more. The press has been talking about nearly EUR 400 million. At present, there is a situation where the European Central Bank does not regard these bonds as either a guarantee or a guarantee. What is their market value today, against the background of Greece's continuing insolvency and perhaps the coming bankruptcy? What is their destiny at all, and how much damage would we suffer in such a black scenario?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U83	We used to discuss this a little bit. Eesti Pank has not bought them directly, but I mentioned that we share revenue and expenditure together. Our direct participation in the government bond purchase programme, our responsibility as Eesti Pank is 40.50 million euros. In addition, the European Central Bank has granted loans to some commercial banks in Greece. These are solvent banks that have provided specific accepted guarantees on the table. Our share of this amount is slightly over EUR 100 million, but these loans are well guaranteed. So when we're talking about potential losses, I don't think we can start to come up with concrete scenarios here. Very much depends on assumptions and we do not know exactly how these things are going to develop. It is quite difficult to even offer a price to these bonds, as these bonds are not currently negotiable. The European Central Bank said that Greek government bonds are no longer accepted as collateral because they are very difficult to assess. If there was an active market, everyone would buy and sell, yes. However, governments are currently not giving money to Greece, nor does the private sector give money to Greece, so it is difficult to set this price precisely in this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U84	Thank you. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you once again, Mr President, for the beautiful overview and very meaningful answers you have given to all the questions. My question, however, concerns the much-spoken e-residency. Could e-residents also have an impact on our financial services and what could it be like? Do you see any risks here? Are there any risks?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U86	Thank you for your question. We have not been involved in this project. But the possibility that maybe someone can run certain businesses with it and start using some kind of service may in some way encourage some kind of entrepreneurship here. Of course, if you put such a thing into practice, here's the same thing as that crypto money. We must make sure that we do not have a bad reputation because something that this e-residency allows us to do is actually negative, whether it is money laundering or whatever. I hope it's focused on that. If the country has a good reputation, but e-residency allows these not so good people to deliver something, it would certainly be negative.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U87	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U88	Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, The subject of my question seems microscopic at first glance, but, as we know, the devil is in the details. About half an hour ago, visiting an ATM downtown, I saw a Japanese family take the money out and go away, but he came back because he forgot to take his bank card with him. In other parts of the world, you get used to taking the card first and getting the money. They came to the ATM for the money. They were in real trouble, they were really in trouble because they didn't know what would happen now. I couldn't help them either. I am now asking you directly: are the hands of Eesti Pank long enough to contribute a little to making ATMs compatible with international standards, or is it someone else's concern?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U89	Thank you. I think the issue of ATMs is not our competence. I lost my card a few weeks ago. Luckily, no one used it, but I had to wait a little while before I got a new card. I don't think Eesti Pank could have helped me with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U90	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U91	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, To conclude this discussion philosophically, I ask about the cost of capital. We see that there is pressure on wage growth. For example, the number of customers in one of the largest socio-economic sectors is decreasing, the number of visitors to the circuit was less than 140000 in the first quarter, etc. GDP figures and growth are not the best either. How do you assess the proportion of capital expenditure in the future? Today's situation around Euribor is actually close to the anomaly context.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U92	Thank you. If I understood the question correctly, it is more about interest rates than I think about the cost of capital. At present, we see that interest rates remain low for a while, because, from a monetary policy point of view, it is necessary for moderate inflation to increase, and in this context they will certainly remain low in the short term. But sooner or later, the situation should return to normal, and then it should definitely start to grow. However, I do not see at the moment in the context in which we are, how this can be changed very much in the short term.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U93	Thank you, Mr President. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. Thank you very much for your thorough answers. Do the political groups want to negotiate? Yes, please, Tarmo Tamm from the Centre Party faction!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U94	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the honourable Governor of Eesti Pank, Ardo Hansson, for his very good presentation and meaningful answers. Eesti Pank has been involved in shaping the single monetary policy for the euro area for four years. The decisions necessary for the implementation of monetary policy shall be prepared in cooperation with all Eurosystem central banks. In autumn 2014, the Governing Council of the European Central Bank confirmed its readiness to implement, as the economic and financial environment deteriorates, exceptional additional monetary policy instruments within its mandate to deal effectively with the risks of long-term low inflation rates. In January 2015, it was decided to extend the range of asset purchases. In addition to the money to be issued, euro area governments and pan-European institutions and agencies buy bonds with a maturity of 20 to 30 years. Purchases of these asset classes started in March 2015 and will last at least until September 2016, but certainly until a sustained correction is made in euro area inflation, in line with the Eurosystem's objective of price stability. A total of EUR 60 billion per month is planned. No government bonds have been issued in Estonia, which is why we have to buy bonds or other financial instruments from other countries. I think it's a very big problem. Eesti Pank participates in the large bond buying and selling process initiated by the European Central Bank only as a buyer, channelling millions of euros into the economies of other European countries. However, it is clear that there will be no significant increase in the country's investment capacity in the coming years, which means that we need to find ways to stimulate our economy. This path could be bond issuance, but we will miss this opportunity because the government coalition repeats its mantra 'debt is foreign'. Yet the public debt is constantly increasing. It is important to distinguish between covering current costs on account of debt or borrowing for investments. While other countries use the current bond programme as an opportunity to improve and improve their infrastructure, Estonia is a silly sheep who contributes to the development of other countries, instead of developing its own state infrastructure. If we miss these opportunities, we will have given a competitive advantage to others. Government debt has almost doubled in recent years, reaching EUR 1.85 billion. Much of this has been spent helping other countries. Mikk Talpsepp wrote in the opinion paper 'We'll be poorer voluntarily in February 5th, Äripäev? ' that if today our standard of living is about 70% of the European Union's average, then later, after a monetary printing programme, of which Estonia does not participate and supports its own economy, Estonia may be impoverished compared to others and our standard of living may fall to 60% of the European Union's average. The Reform Party should at least think about this too, as the dream of becoming one of the five richest countries in Europe is becoming increasingly dim. Finally, I would like to say that I am counting on the Bank of Estonia to ensure that the competence there would put the government in its head and help to harmonise the Estonian Government's understanding of financial policy with the principles of the European Central Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U95	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. We have finished addressing the first item.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U96	Let's go to the second item. The Annual Report 2014 of the Financial Supervision Authority is under consideration. The rapporteur is Kilvar Kessler, Chairman of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority. There will be up to 20 minutes for the presentation. The members of the Riigikogu are once again able to ask an oral question and the representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U97	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! According to the Financial Supervision Act, we submitted the annual report of the inspection to the Riigikogu. It discusses the most important events, actions and developments that took place in 2014 in the Estonian financial market and supervision. Financial market and supervision can be talked about at length and from different points of view. I would like to address four questions about the Estonian financial market in today's presentation. I am talking about the importance of agreements, law and law in the financial market, with an emphasis on the zero interest environment, I am publishing the principles of the Financial Supervision Authority in the supervision of creditors, I am stressing the importance of an effective penal policy and the relevant framework for ensuring the integrity and transparency of the financial market and, finally, I am fixing the values on which we operate in the institutions of the European Union. A quick overview of the Estonian financial market for anno Domini 2014. There are 17 management companies, 15 banks, 13 insurance undertakings, 12 payment service providers, five life insurance companies, three investment companies and one stock exchange, numerous insurance brokers and agents. In 2014, the Financial Supervision Authority and its 72 employees decided on 83 administrative acts at a meeting of the Executive Board, granted four licences and partially or totally revoked two licences, issued six injunctions and filed six complaints against six persons, carried out on-the-spot checks in a total of 26 monitoring subjects, in addition to day-to-day market monitoring and numerous remote controls. As the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority are financed by supervisors, we did not impose a burden on the state budget. The volume of financial assets held by Estonian residents at the end of 2014 was 8.3 billion euros, which is 0.9 billion euros more than in 2013. Deposits accounted for 63% of the financial assets and the assets of mandatory pension funds accounted for 28%. At the end of 2014, Estonians had financial liabilities of EUR 7 billion, which is 0.2 billion more than in 2013. It's statistics, they're big numbers. Every number, however, is based on man, everyday life, emotions, relationships, anxieties, and joys. One of the most memorable moments in my working life as a financial supervisor was when the Estonian kroon was still in force and the Financial Supervision Authority was written on paper and delivered these letters with snail mail. This letter, I still have it in front of my eyes, was a hand, perfectly correct and clearly unfolded story like this. There was a family who lived in an Estonian county. The family included parents and children, the parents were both invalids, and their only income was disability pension. However, as you can see, they lived in a former collective farm center. The apartment needed updating and they had decided to take a loan from the bank to renovate their apartment. They had entered into negotiations with the bank and had received this loan. They had signed the contract, renovated the apartment, and started filling in the loan agreement, when at one point the bank wrote to them that this repayment schedule, which had already been signed and agreed, was wrong, the bank had made one mistake, and this family would have to pay back more money. That's why this family wrote to us about the Financial Supervision Authority, what to do now that they've signed a contract, but the bank wants to change their contract. We have been very familiar with these matters and we have also given a very clear signal to the bank. Firstly, the contracts are for execution, secondly, if the bank has made a mistake, then it must review its processes and systems so that such errors do not recur in the future. This agreement remained in force, the bank acknowledged its error, corrected its processes and systems, and hopefully by now this family has already returned the loan. From this story it emerges eloquently that the contracts are for execution, the same way of fulfilling the parties, regardless of whether they are a large bank or a small business, family or industrial company. Yes, contracts can and should be changed. Contracts can also be de facto broken, not executed. However, the law lays down the grounds for the amendment, as well as cases of non-compliance. There are also rules in law to deal with the consequences of the infringement. The Treaty and the Law, legal certainty and legal clarity and predictability are the rocks on which the financial sector, or even more so than the real sector or other sectors of the economy, is based. Financial products usually exist solely because of law, they are symbiosises of law and mathematics, they are not practically existing. The Estonian law on contracts (the Law of Obligations Act) allows the conditions for financing contracts to be dealt with in a context of both positive and negative interest rates, allows the parties to shape these debt relationships when the basis is and the prescribed process is followed. The Estonian contract law does not allow interest to be withheld for the use of the funds deposited. Money on a payment account must also do so. If the parties agree, the customer may be charged a maintenance and service fee for the account. The fee shall be appropriate and shall correspond to the actual costs incurred by the payment service provider. We will, of course, monitor the impact of the zero interest rate in financial supervision also more broadly, not just its impact on specific contracts. We assess the impact on financial stability. Zero interest will have a positive impact on borrowers in particular: the increased value of these assets will reduce their liabilities, including loan liabilities, relatively, or thereby allow new liabilities to be assumed. On the other hand, low interest rates also have a clear negative impact, particularly in areas where long-term commitments have been made to investors or customers to ensure a certain level of return. This results in the obligation to restructure its assets. More risk-free assets are exchanged for riskier assets, which in turn may give rise to bubbles in one or the other asset class or excessive risk-taking. Consumers can also overestimate their ability to repay the loan in the context of increased interest rates and a changing economic environment. In my opinion, it was the breach of contracts with a customer that has become common practice for high-speed credit offices that set the way for further regulation and supervision of their activities. Until now, the law laid down the grounds on which a person can defend himself in court and require the application of much lower interest rates, but this private decision was unfortunately not well implemented in real life. The high-speed credit offices continued, so it seemed, to apply an "effective business model," which assumes that the borrower will not actively defend his legal rights through the courts. In 2014, a framework was developed in good cooperation between Parliament and the executive authorities, which is now known as the Law on Creditors and Intermediaries. This law will contribute to greater transparency and fairer functioning of the financial market. The obligations arising from the new law are a difficult task for us in the Financial Supervision Authority, for which we are doing our best. To this end, we will apply the following principles: Firstly, we do financial supervision on a risk-based basis. Secondly, we will focus our supervision on the organisational solution of creditors and credit intermediaries. For example, the Financial Supervision Authority assesses the designation, reporting and transparency of responsibilities, the suitability and skills of key stakeholders and managers, the appropriateness, adequacy of internal rules, the existence and functioning of internal control systems. The experience of banking and other regulated financial market supervision has shown us that it is in this way that broad consumer groups can be protected at the cheapest and at the same time relatively effectively. Thirdly, financial supervision exercises its rights and directs creditors and credit intermediaries to comply with public standards. The most difficult consequence of non-compliance with legal requirements is the withdrawal of the licence. In the event of the full entry into force of the Law on Creditors and Credit Intermediaries, the granting or mediation of non-authorised credit is a criminal offence. We believe that, in the event of an important effort and good cooperation with other public authorities, especially law enforcement authorities, we will be able to organise the market for creditors. This brings us, however, to dealing with the consequences of the infringements and to the ownership of market players. The credibility of financial market rules, the efficient and fair functioning of the market, is limited by the risk perception, ownership of financial intermediaries. It must be clear to Homo Economius that breaking the law is not just a morally complaining act, but a clearly economically ineffective game. Otherwise, it may be economically useful not to comply with certain rules, as the consequences of the infringement are such that the proceeds of the infringement exceed the risk or cost of the infringement. In broad terms, the penal policy can be divided into two. First of all, the offender is inevitably subject to punishment and is relatively lenient. Here, the inevitableness of punishment discourages us. Option 2: Not every infringement is punishable as a causal link, but the penalty is rather draconian, difficult. The possibility of imposing a very difficult sentence is being dropped. In the case of a policy that seems fairer at first glance, it should be noted that it requires a sufficiently large state coercion and, on the other hand, a symmetry of information must be created between the citizen and the state, allowing the inevitable to be realised. But do we want to give up our privacy even more, or do we want more of a country? At the very least, in the case of the financial sector, the question remains whether the lenient penalty that will inevitably follow will lose the economic efficiency of the infringement. Therefore, in the case of the financial sector, the right path is to tighten up and diversify the penalties. This is the road that is being followed, for example, in the newer EU legislation. The Swedish Financial Inspectorate announced s. On 19 May 2004, Nordea fined the Bank and Handelsbanken for non-compliance. The inspection imposed a fine on Nordea Bank of Sweden of SEK 50 million, while Handelsbanken has to pay a fine of SEK 35 million. When we look at Estonian legislation, however, the maximum possible financial penalties of 32000 euros will be understood by the legal person by the procedure of misdemeanours. This is not a permanent punishment for an infringement already committed, but if the infringement has been committed and supervision asks that similar violations not be committed in the future, but the subject ignores this request and violates the law in the same way, then the penalty money is a little better in Estonia, but the current form of coercive money is quite toothless because it is only applicable if the first infringement and the subsequent request for supervision not to commit the infringement is followed by the same second infringement. Although we have gradually diversified the sanctions and increased the financial rates in Estonia, for example, given the supervision of fast-lenders, I think that the place of reflection and the task of acting more quickly is serious. Action should be taken faster than in the past 11 years, when the Financial Supervision Authority has consistently brought this issue to the attention of its partners and has also put forward concrete proposals. Now for external relations. In fact, I can't even sense what an external relationship is anymore and what an internal relationship is. In the euro area, there is a growing degree of integration of financial supervision. On 4 November 2014, a single euro area banking supervision mechanism was launched by SSM. This is an unprecedented development in the European Union's finances, perhaps the biggest change since the introduction of the euro. The SSM is made up of the European Central Bank in Frankfurt and the banking supervisory authorities of the euro area countries, including the Financial Supervision Authority. The decision-making bodies of the SSM are the President of our Central Bank and the Chairman of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority. SSM decides on the authorisation and taking of banks, stands for a uniform quality of capital supervision for all banks, and in close cooperation with national supervisory authorities, direct supervision of 120 of the largest banks and banking groups in the euro area is applied. SSM does not carry out service supervision or capital supervision of OFIs. In 2014, the central legislation of the SRM was completed. It forms the second pillar of the European Union's Banking Union alongside SSM. The SRM consists of the Centre in Brussels and the national resolution authorities in the euro area, including the Financial Supervision Authority. Decisions will be taken by the Centre from 2016 onwards and implemented by the National Crisis Management Authority. The resolution authority will be fully operational once the bank is infected, figuratively speaking, with an explanation of whether there is a chance of recovery or a fatal situation. In the latter case, bankruptcy proceedings will be launched. However, in the case of the hope of healing, the resolution authority, the EMT treating the banks, will take over, if you could say so. The Financial Supervision Authority also participates in three European institutions that develop common rules for banking, insurance and securities markets. Acting in European fora, we have a clear guiding principle on which we base our statements, opinions and other activities on proportionality. Proportionality means that smaller market participants and markets must be subject to simpler and somewhat less stringent rules. Otherwise, the diversity of the market will be lost, competition will be reduced and society as a whole will be lost. To sum it up. First of all, legislative power, executive power and, in particular, judicial authority must clearly account for the importance of legal certainty and legal clarity in the financial sector. Secondly, the supervision of creditors is a difficult task for us in the Financial Supervision Authority, but we believe that we can organise this market in cooperation with law enforcement authorities. Thirdly, there is an honest and transparent financial market where it is clear that the infringement is not economically effective. We need to substantially accelerate the reform of the penal policy and the corresponding framework in the financial sector, especially in the context of the supervision of creditors. Fourthly, in Europe we represent diversity, greater consideration for small and medium-sized enterprises. In his speech of November 19, 1863, 16th President of the United States, Abraham Lincoln, said: "... government of the people, by the people, for the people. " (The government belongs to the people; the government belongs to the people and to the people.) Ordinary people, people on the street, have never caused financial crises. At the same time, they have invited us to make the rules and implement them. We owe people, public confidence. This is what we always have in mind in the Financial Supervision Authority, according to our best skills and abilities, on the basis of the law and on the basis of the law. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The central task of the Financial Supervision Authority is to maintain financial stability, to ensure the integrity and transparency of financial markets as a whole. The 2014 Annual Book of the Financial Supervision Authority, which has been made available to you, describes the performance of these tasks during the 2014 accounting year, the functioning of the Financial Supervision Authority in the 12th year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The annual report shows that the investments of mandatory pension funds in the assets registered in Estonia decreased. They are already small and the majority of them are in deposits, with only 3% in securities. I think there are funds registered in Estonia in this 3%, which invest outside Estonia, so this already non-existent amount will decrease even further. This must have been reinforced by the fact that the ERGO pension funds transferred to Nordea. You know this area very well, and you can tell us what we should do to improve the situation. Pension fund investments in Estonia would certainly be one of the prerequisites for economic growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U99	Thank you! The answer to the first question is that financial supervision is ongoing. It does not start with a complaint, nor does it end with the resolution of that complaint. People's complaints are one of our inputs in financial supervision. They can show us where and what kind of risks are so that we can then apply the procedure. The statistics we have done and the outputs of our activities are listed here in the report. We made 83 administrative decisions in 2014, including six precepts. We made a coercion decision. Perhaps the main thing we decided to change in our activities at the beginning of 2014 is that we decided to be more visible to market participants and to be present. What does that mean? While in 2013 we only visited market participants in 11 cases, in 2014 we were already 26 market participants on the spot. This means that we are going to the market participant's office and we are going to look at a certain line of work on how processes and systems work. If there are faintings, we ask them to correct them in processes and systems. This is the same as I referred to in the context of creditors and creditors that we are focusing on the organisational solution. This means that by asking the financial intermediary, the market participant, to improve our organisation, we will protect consumers most effectively. The second question concerned financial literacy and education. I believe that this is an important issue in Estonia. This must be dealt with in a coordinated manner by national enforcement authorities. The Financial Supervision Authority has been dealing with this issue on its own initiative at the beginning and later under the law, and we will continue to do so. We have a website, myraha.ee, where we educate consumers. I suggest it, I've been watching it from time to time. There are comparative tables that show where, for example, a fixed-term deposit has the most favourable interest rate and where fees are the most favourable. It attracts the consumer to read myraha.ee, but there is also other educational material with which a person, if he or she is interested, can familiarize himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U100	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Killer Kessler! You mentioned the ESM. How do you assess that documents reflecting the processing and making of the ESM's decisions are secret and that immunity has been granted to the decision-making authorities? Therefore, it is not possible to carry out financial supervision of the ESM and it is not possible to refer such persons to the courts of any State or to the International Criminal Court. What legal options do the Financial Supervision Authority have if the members of the ESM governing bodies are to commit, for example, a financial breach of ESM's assets?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U102	Thank you for your question. I'll make a little bit of a clarification, and then I'll try to deal with the ESM issue. I was talking about SSM (i.e. the abbreviation for Single Supervisory Mechanism), the single capital supervision of banks in Frankfurt. By ESM, you probably meant the European Stability Mechanism, which is based in Luxembourg. Quite frankly, I have no in-depth knowledge of the ESM except as much as I can read in general. I know that the issue of immunities is also acute with regard to the European Central Bank. There, too, at least the members of the management body have a certain immunity. In a sense, this is necessary, at least as far as the civil-law dimension is concerned. The criminal dimension is not directly relevant to financial supervision. If there is such an agreement in Europe and there are laws and external agreements in this regard, then we, as an executive authority in financial supervision, must comply with them and comply with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U103	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Board! My question concerns the amendment of the currently pending Act on Insurance Activities. The Government Coalition does not agree to allow the establishment of mutual insurance societies in this pending law. What do you think are these constitutional or also rational reasons why there should not be this mutual consolidation in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U105	Thank you for your question. My answer is based on the facts I know. Otherwise, it's an assessment. The reason why the Act on Insurance Activities has now reached the Riigikogu on your desks is due to one very fundamental reform of the European Union acquis. Its English name is Solvency II and it refers to the capital regulation of insurers, i.e. how the risks taken by insurers are covered by capital. Once years ago, there was a similar reform of banking (Basel II, Basel III), and now it is in insurance. It has been agreed in the European Union that Member States will have to transpose this rulebook within a certain time limit. That's one thing. Secondly, it is likely that the form of insurance activity you have referred to will require some fundamental review. I don't want to do anything in a hurry, I want to do it thoroughly and well. That is when the tension arises, on the one hand, when there is time pressure to transpose a very comprehensive and complex framework resulting from the European directive, and, on the other hand, our legislators want to clarify or supplement the Estonian Act on Insurance Activities with certain new forms of enterprise. In my opinion, both are very legitimate wishes. Solvency II must be taken over, it has been decided, but I think it would be worth considering what you have described. It is not a question of the form of enterprise; the question is how the risks taken are covered by capital and how the risks are managed. The form in which one or the other financial intermediary exists is, I would say, secondary. I think it makes sense to take time and do it well and perhaps at some later stage.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U106	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U107	Thank you. Dear Chairman of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, In reply to the question asked by my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the Governor of Eesti Pank mentioned that Eesti Pank has no interest in organising its work geographically. But with my question, I am thinking of the places that we call the periphery and where there will be many complaints about the organisation of services. I would like to ask you, as Chairman of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, who do you think needs to think about organising services in the outskirts of the country where, by the way, the taxpayers of our country live?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U108	Thank you! The question is, at what level should this be done, whether this should be done by the municipal government or by the state, perhaps, yes, such a federal government. I don't know about that. In the old days, it was said that every municipality deals with its own people. Maybe that's the way it should be right now. We look at neighbouring countries, such as Finland, where there are quite similar problems at times: the population is ageing, population density in rural areas is becoming thinner. If a financial service is available there, how will this issue be resolved? In Finland, it seems that more local authorities supporting a financial intermediary have taken up this issue, some banks, so that this bank will continue to provide services in this area. This is one of the possibilities for exercising freedom of choice in the country. What could be Estonia's solution? I don't really know how to propose it. It is clear that there are no free lunches. It is clear that neither the bank nor any other financial intermediary is a charitable organisation, but a company that wants to make a profit. That must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U109	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U110	Thank you! Honourable Chairman of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority! Insurance brokers are currently receiving bonuses through insurance companies. The law aims to introduce a so-called 'netisation' system. How do you feel about this in the light of competition law, and what positive and negative effects will this have?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U111	Thank you! This net and gross valuation has been discussed a lot in the context of this same Act on Insurance Activities. Now you just have to tell me what's what. Gross valuation means that a potential policyholder goes to an insurance broker and says he wants to insure himself or his property. Then the insurance broker is legally obliged to act in the interest of the policyholder, but in such cases the remuneration is paid to the insurance broker not by the policyholder, but by the insurer. The net pricing system is one where the remuneration is paid to the insurance broker, not by the insurer, but by the policyholder himself. If you look at Europe, then again, for example, there is a net-price system in Finland, but in many European countries, if you don't say it, most countries have gross prices. The European Union directive on insurance mediation leaves the ends open and accepts both options. I say that, although gross pricing may seem to involve a risk of conflict of interest, all the regulation that is in the current law on insurance business should minimise the risk of this conflict. This means that insurance brokers are obliged to disclose to the policyholder, the consumer how much they receive commission from one insurance undertaking or another when they sell the insurance product to the policyholder.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U112	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Chairman of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, I want your opinion on a problem such as fast-track loans. Unfortunately, you have not talked about this very much, but I think that this is a pretty big problem in Estonian society. First of all, this problem is because this activity is completely unregulated and the Financial Supervision Authority cannot intervene in any way. Today, any company that has any money can borrow it, make whatever contracts and then demand any sums. How do you view this problem and how important it is?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U114	Thank you! Since 29 March 2015, when the Law on Creditors and Credit Intermediaries entered into force, I have taken this issue exactly as it says. This means that by spring 2016 at the latest, creditors and intermediaries wishing to act legally must be authorised by the Financial Supervision Authority. The basis for receiving it is laid down by law. A creditor's and a credit intermediary's organisation must meet certain requirements. Owners of a qualifying holding in a creditor and credit intermediary and its managers must meet certain requirements. If they are fulfilled, the organisation will be authorised by the Financial Supervision Authority and will be subject to our ongoing supervision from this point onward. If it violates the law, the same law on creditors and intermediaries, it may result in the withdrawal of the licence. If, after that, it continues as a creditor or intermediary, it constitutes a criminal offence and is already dealt with by law enforcement authorities in criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U115	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, thank you for your very correct answers. We also received many answers yesterday in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But here's my question today. I looked at the annual report and saw in the section of complaints that there are 22 complaints about one bank that you should resolve, while others have two or three or four. What is the cause of such a large number of complaints, and what is their content?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U117	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U118	Thank you! As far as the content of specific complaints is concerned, I apologise, I can check in my office and search out these complaints, but I do not dare to list to you what the content of each particular complaint is. But once again, how we handle complaints. We deal with them in two ways. First of all, let's say, there's a substantial financial ombudsman's activity. This means that we are trying to reconcile the parties to the bank and the consumer in some way, to create a common part so that they can reach a friendly agreement. Why? Formally, according to the law, we do not have a mandate to resolve consumer complaints; we are not a Consumer Protection Agency that resolves individual consumer complaints. However, complaints provide us with very valuable information, showing that there is some sort of organisational loss in one financial intermediary or another, whether processes or systems are out of place or if wrong employees are hired. Why else would these complaints be received, especially if, for example, they are uniform? These complaints give us the basis to take financial supervision measures, to ask one bank or another to correct the organisation, for example, so that these complaints no longer arise. But if you are interested specifically in the content of the complaints, we can still communicate. I can look into every complaint, that information is in our house, right now I'm just not able to give you that information.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U119	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are questions for you. Colleagues Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U120	Thank you, manager. Dear Chairman of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, Does the Financial Supervision Authority have anything to do with monitoring competition rules in the financial market? If profits are going to fall somewhere, it is known that fees will be increased. Unfortunately, in many cases we have higher fees than in neighbouring countries. Does the Financial Supervision Authority have anything to do with this, or is it just a matter for the Competition Authority?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U121	Thank you! Let me briefly describe what is based on the activities of the pension funds you have mentioned, which are aspects that are worth taking into account. Firstly, the activities of pension funds are based on the law. The law sets investment limits for funds, sets out the rules which must be taken into account in their investment activities. Secondly, these conditions are specified and usually narrowed down in the fund's terms and conditions. Third, the so-called cherry on the cake is the decisions of the fund manager. The fund manager decides on the basis of the fund's terms and conditions and the law to which and to what extent to invest. The fund manager must be diligent and loyal to unit-holders, i.e. pensioners. It must process enough information before selecting an investee and making an investment decision. The activities of the Financial Supervision Authority in this area will focus in particular on whether the investments comply with the requirements of law and fund conditions and whether the fund manager has exercised due diligence in his/her activities. Of course, in the case of pension funds, it must also be taken into account that the return on investment and the risk associated with the higher the return on investment are, the more risky it is, the more risky it is, and all of this, of course, in a temporal context. Another remark. It should not be forgotten that the roofs of the second pillar pension fund managers' fees are legally fixed, and every business wants to operate efficiently, in other words maximise revenues and minimise costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U122	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U123	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Chairman of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, Recently, a company such as BitGold went on the market in Canada, a company offering storage and payment services, which has grown out of bitcoin, which is known to have generated very conflicting positions in different countries. In the United States, for example, this does not work very well, because it is not taken very well by law. I do not know whether this would be subject to supervision by the Financial Supervision Authority in Estonia at all. If this activity were to belong to Estonia, and if it were to extend to Estonia, how would the Financial Supervision Authority feel about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U124	Thank you! There were two questions about this. Firstly, how we would view the capital market in Estonia, the Tallinn Stock Exchange, as coming to the issuers. The second question relates to crypto money, i.e. the opinion of the Financial Supervision Authority on crypto money. With regard to capital markets, Ardo Hansson dealt with it in advance, so that ex-demand and supply would settle everything. Of course, the Financial Supervision Authority would be pleased to see the issuers coming to the Tallinn Stock Exchange, provided, of course, that these issuers meet and comply with the conditions laid down by law. As far as crypto money is concerned, there are four aspects to be noted. Crypto money is not taken in any way by the Financial Supervision Authority; it is a means of payment, like any other, and it is probably very good and welcome to look at the competition aspect. However, consumers must be aware of the risks associated with crypto money. I'll mention three. Firstly, the business continuity of the systems, which means that if anything happens to IT systems, it must be known what consequences will follow for crypto money holders, what risks will materialise and who will be responsible. Secondly, how transparent the process of creating these'means of payment' is. The third risk relates in particular to the prevention of money laundering: who and how such crypto money is used, and if it is used to support crime, for example, what could be the action of law enforcement authorities that could stop one or another crypto money from operating?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U125	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U126	Dear waitress, In your report you gave an example of how a neighbouring country in Sweden has been sentenced to millions of financial penalties for large financial institutions. You must have been dissatisfied with the fact that in Estonia such penalties are only possible up to a few tens of thousands of euros. For example, the Riigikogu is currently preparing a draft law on insurance activities, the final part of which also amends the composition and penalties of all kinds of administrative errors in this area. Then why isn't it there? Or do I know wrong? If it was not originally there, is your authority currently working to ensure that proportionate and correct sanctions are imposed in Estonia as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U127	Thank you for your question. Yes, our authority has acted and is working to change the sanctioning system for the financial sector in Estonia. This job is on. This work is run by the Ministry of Justice, as has been called and established in Estonia. We hope that this process, as I emphasised, will be completed at least next year. The supervision of creditors and credit intermediaries will be fully implemented next year and, in our view, it will be potentially needed in a revised, improved and simplified framework of sanctions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U128	Fruit Savisaar-Toomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U129	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, first of all, thank you very much for your presentation. My question is a slightly softer area. In your annual report, you will produce figures on the number of infringements reported to you during the reporting period. But I didn't notice or didn't know how many violations you'd discovered yourself in the monitoring procedure and what followed. If we are talking here about the small amount of penalties, how many have you proposed? I will also ask a second question right now, which is a bit from another area and concerns the chapter on the promotion of public awareness. The study of market research AS that you ordered shows that people are not particularly interested in this matter. Have you come to any conclusion to suggest something so that the residents would become more interested, and we wouldn't have these kinds of discoveries afterwards that, oh, I didn't know?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U130	Thank you! That's a very good question. Up to a certain point, this moment was still in the last century, and there was also a provision in the laws governing financial supervision that spoke of competition, such as the acquisition of significant holdings in a credit institution. But from a certain point of view, this provision was abolished and completely consciously abolished. In particular, there is some conflict of interest between competition supervision and financial supervision. Financial supervision, capital supervision, is always interested in financial intermediaries making a good profit. If a financial intermediary makes a good profit, its customers, depositors, will be well protected from becoming insolvent. At the same time, the Competition Authority and the Competition Authority have a mandate to make sure that competition works and that there is no infringement or distortion.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U131	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U132	Good manager, thank you. Good waitress! There has been strong international criticism of disproportionately high fees for fund managers and their non-performance-based remuneration. What about fund managers' fees in Estonia and does the Financial Supervision Authority have any position on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U133	Thank you! Supervision of investment funds by the Financial Supervision Authority can in principle be divided into several units, but let's just say the focus is on whether a person who buys an investment product, a unit, receives correct, accurate and complete information about this unit, or whether there is a symmetry of the information prescribed by law. That's the first thing. The other thing is whether or not the management company has a conflict of interest. These are the two central focussed on the supervision of investment funds. Of course, there are still moments of non-compliance, whether or not the management company is also a conflict of interest. Financial supervision does not address remuneration issues; it should be dealt with by the market itself. The consumer sees that the fund x has such high fees, the fund y has such charges, and he chooses where he invests his money, maybe he goes somewhere else and buys some things, doesn't invest in one fund or another. Of course, the issue of fund management fees is not new. As far as I know, for the first time, this issue was very lively in the debate in the late 1960s in the United States, including at federal parliament level. The same question then was that if the volume of the assets reached a certain amount and the fund fees were calculated on the volume of the assets under management, whether they were too high or not. The Federal Parliament of the United States didn't find any good solution. Philosophy is still such that price regulation should only take place in very exceptional cases. Estonia has used it exceptionally. In particular, the second pillar pension funds management companies have been set a price cap.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U134	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Thank you very much for your presentation and your comprehensive answers. Do the political groups want to start negotiations? There are no negotiating requests. We will close the second item.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U135	We will go to the third item. The first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of the Gambling Tax Council" submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs begins. The rapporteur is Tarmo Tamm, Vice-Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U136	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce you to the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Gambling Tax Council'. According to § 7 (4) of the Gambling Tax Act, the Gambling Tax Council is formed by the Riigikogu. The Council includes six members of the Riigikogu and one representative of the Ministry of Education and Research, one representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs and one representative of the Ministry of Culture. The Committee on Monetary Affairs decided on the new composition of the Riigikogu. a At its meeting on 5 May, the Riigikogu decided to initiate the draft decision 'Construction of the Gambling Tax Council'. The draft decision was prepared on the basis of proposals received from the political groups of the Riigikogu. In view of these proposals, members of the XIII Riigikogu are appointed from the Group of the Estonian Free Party, Helmen Kütt from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Lauri Luik from the Reform Party Group, Andres Metsoja from the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica from the Union, Meelis Mälberg from the Reform Party Group and Mailis Reps from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. As representatives of the Ministries, Chancellor Janar Holm of the Ministry of Education and Research, Paavo Nõgene, Chancellor of the Ministry of Culture, and Rait Kuuse, Deputy Chancellor of Social Affairs of the Ministry of Social Affairs. At its meeting on 11 May, the Committee on Finance decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 26 May, i.e. today, and put to the final vote. All decisions on the draft were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U137	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do the political groups want to start negotiations? There's no call. The commission has proposed that the draft be put to the final vote of 19. Let's go to the final vote. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Gambling Tax Council' 19. Please take a stand and vote. There are 70 members of the Riigikogu with two abstentions, and there are no votes against. Bill 19 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U138	Let's go to the fourth item on the agenda. The first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu " Appointment of the members of the Board of the Guarantee Fund" submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs begins. The rapporteur is Urve Tiidus, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U139	Honorable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! On 5 May, the Committee on Monetary Affairs initiated the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled Appointment of the members of the Board of the Guarantee Fund 20. The political groups proposed the appointment of candidates. There are also the consents of the candidates. On the basis of all this, the Commission decided to appoint Mr Aivar Sõerdi and Mr Martin Helme as members of the Council. The decision was unanimous. On 11 May, a first reading took place in which procedural decisions were taken. I was appointed rapporteur, Urve Tiidus, proposed that the draft decision be put on the plenary agenda by 26 May, i.e. today, and the Commission also unanimously decided to propose that the draft be put to the final vote on the same day. A word from the Guarantee Fund. This fund is a legal entity governed by public law established by the Guarantee Fund Act. Its purpose is to ensure protection against money or in the legal language of the funds that the clients of the institution, the unit-holders of the mandatory pension fund and the policyholders who have concluded a mandatory funded pension insurance contract have invested in the corresponding funds. The activities of the Guarantee Fund contribute to the credibility and stability of the financial sector. The Commission's proposals were all unanimous. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U140	Thank you. Do colleagues have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Do the political groups want to start negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed that the draft be put to the final 20 votes. Let's go to the final vote. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the nomination of the members of the Board of the Guarantee Fund 20. Please take a stand and vote. There are 72 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions and no one against. The 20th draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U141	Let's go to agenda number five. The first reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint the members of the National Opera Council, submitted by the Committee on Culture, begins. The rapporteur is Heidy Purga, member of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are dealing with the draft decision of the Riigikogu No 25. According to § 6 of the National Opera Act, three members of the Riigikogu are appointed by the Riigikogu on the proposal of the Cultural Commission. The mandate of the so far members of the National Opera Council ended with the new Riigikogu becoming a member of the Riigikogu. The Committee on Culture prepared the first reading of the draft decision in several plenary sessions. The political groups submitted to the Committee on Culture as candidates for the National Opera Council from the Group of the Maire Aunaste Isamaa and Res Publica Union, the Group of the Enn Eesmaa Estonian Centre Party, Mart Helme from the Group of the Conservative Estonian People's Party, Laine Randjärve from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, Artur Talvik from the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the Group of the Hardi Volmer Social Democratic Party. On 7 May, the election of the members of the Governing Council took place from among the candidates. Kalvi Tõvi withdrew the nomination of Hardi Volmer on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Krista Aru withdrew the candidacy of Artur Talvik on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Aadu Black withdrew Enn Frontland's candidacy on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group. The Commission then approved Maire Aunaste, Mart Helme and Laine Randjärve as members of the National Opera Board. At the meetings of the Committee on Culture held on 11 and 12 May, the following procedural decisions were taken by consensus: to send the draft to the Riigikogu's plenary session for discussion. a 26 May, which is today, to appoint Heidy Purga as the Commission's representative and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote and adopted as a decision. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U143	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Do the political groups want to start negotiations? There are no negotiating requests. The commission has proposed that the draft be put to the final 25 votes. Let's go to the final vote. I will vote on the Riigikogu's decision to appoint 'Members of the National Opera Council' draft 25. Please take a stand and vote. 67 members of the Riigikogu, with 3 abstentions, no one opposed. The draft 25 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U144	The sixth item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu " Appointment of the members of the Council of the National Library of Estonia" submitted by the Committee on Culture. The rapporteur is Laine Randjärv, Chairman of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U145	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to § 8 (2) of the Estonian National Library Act, the Riigikogu appoints three members of the Riigikogu and two recognised experts from the fields of work of the National Library for a term of office of four years. The mandate of the so far members of the National Library Council ended with the new Riigikogu becoming a member of the Riigikogu, and the mandate of experts in the fields of work expired on 17 May 2015. The Committee on Culture prepared the first reading of the draft decision in plenary session on 28 April and 7 May. On 7 May, the election of the members of the Governing Council took place from among the candidates. The political groups of the Riigikogu had submitted their candidates to the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu and the committee unanimously approved the list of the following members of the Riigikogu: Igor Gräzin from the Reform Party, Aadu Must from the Centre Party and Mark Soosaar from the Social Democratic Party. The speaker then presented to the Commission the nominations for the members of the board of renowned experts in the fields of the Estonian National Library, who were elected by Jüri Järs and Priit Pirsko. At the meetings of the Committee on Culture held on 11 and 12 May, the following procedural decisions were taken by consensus: to send the draft to the Riigikogu's plenary session for discussion. a by 26 May, appoint Laine Randjärv as rapporteur for the Commission and propose that the draft be put to the final vote and adopted today as a decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U146	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Please, my colleague Mark Soosaar!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U147	Mr Laine Randjärv! I ask you for advice on how these three persons can avoid conflicts of interest when voting.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U148	What exactly is the conflict of interest? [[Interjection.]] That you read books. Aha! I don't understand your question very well. Should the three persons who have been appointed members of the National Library Council not be able to vote for themselves? [[Interjection.]] I don't know, maybe someone else can specify or you can ask another question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U149	Yes, my colleague Mark Soosaar, please, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U150	Yes, I see that these three persons have three options, in fact four options: there is the possibility of voting for themselves, voting against themselves, abstaining and not voting. How would you behave yourself in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U151	You know, every member of the Riigikogu has the right to decide exactly as his conscience tells him. I suggest you act in accordance with your personal conscience as he tells you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U152	Thank you. Colleagues Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U153	Thank you. Chairwoman of the Committee on Culture. Since there are three candidates, could there be one way to vote for one candidate? Then he can still vote for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U154	I don't think it makes any sense for us to start here with such an interesting number game and mathematics. I don't think there's anything extraordinary about this. Members of the council of the National Library have been voted at the beginning of the work of each Riigikogu. I hope that people who have been proposed as members of the Council have also been present on previous occasions. I don't think there's gonna be a precedent.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U155	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! One of those mentioned does not know whether he should vote for or against. Does the Commission really have the knowledge that these candidates are willing to be part of the National Library Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U157	Yes, indeed, according to the law, all proposed candidates have also agreed to apply.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U158	Thank you. No further questions. Do the political groups want to start negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed that the draft be put to the final vote on 24 votes. Let's go to the final vote. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the nomination of the members of the National Library of Estonia 24. Please take a stand and vote. 68 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no abstentions or opposition. The draft has therefore been adopted as 24 decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U159	The seventh item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu "Appointing Members of the National Broadcasting Council of Estonia" submitted by the Committee on Culture. The rapporteur is Mailis Reps, member of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U160	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I introduce the Riigikogu's decision 'Appointing members of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council' to the Riigikogu' draft 17. In short, the debate. On 28 April, the Committee on Culture proposed to the Riigikogu that members of the Riigikogu be appointed members of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council. This is in accordance with § 14 (1) (1) of the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act, according to which the Riigikogu, on the proposal of the Cultural Commission, appoints one representative to the Riigikogu from each political group of the Riigikogu until the end of the term of office of the Riigikogu. The Cultural Commission proposes to appoint members of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council from the XIII Riigikogu, Krista Aru from the Estonian Free Party Group, Martin Helme from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Kalle Muuli from the Isamaa and Res Publica Group, Heidy Purga from the Estonian Reform Party Group, Mihkel from the Social Democratic Party of Raud and Priit Toobali from the Estonian Centre Party. There are rules for proposing this to the Riigikogu and these rules are all met. All the parties, i.e. all the political groups, have made their proposals, all the consents have been received by the Committee on Culture, no conflict of interest is known to us, the Committee on Culture, all the candidates replied that they were aware of § 15. On this basis, the Committee on Culture proposed that such a list be included in the draft decision. On 4 and 12 May, procedural decisions were taken, according to which we propose a draft 17, together with a list of six names, to be adopted as a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U161	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Do the political groups want to start negotiations? There's no call. The commission has proposed that the draft be put to the final vote. Let's get to the vote. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the nomination of the members of the Riigikogu of Estonia's National Broadcasting Council 17. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members voted in favour, with one abstention, and no one opposed it. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U162	Let's go to the eighth item. The first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Committee on Culture, begins with the nomination of a member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council, a recognized expert in the field of Estonian Public Broadcasting. The rapporteur is Viktoria Ladynskaja, member of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U163	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable ambassadors! Due to the early termination of the mandate of Krista Aru, member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council, and pursuant to § 15 (4) of the Estonian National Broadcasting Act, today we are dealing with the draft decision of the Riigikogu, according to which the Riigikogu, on the proposal of the Cultural Commission, appoints a recognised expert to the Estonian National Broadcasting Council in the field of activity. The Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu decided on the exact date of its meeting on 12 May to propose to the Riigikogu that Pille Pruulmann-Vengerfeldt be appointed as a member of the recognised expert of the Estonian Public Broadcasting Council. In preparing the draft decision, the Committee on Culture organised a secret vote between the five proposed candidates. It must be admitted that there were initially seven candidates, but two of them withdrew themselves. The Cultural Commission does not disclose elected candidates. When proposing to the Riigikogu, the Committee on Culture is based on the fact that a member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council may not, firstly, be a member of the Board of the National Broadcasting Board, secondly, he cannot be a member of the management body of the media service provider, thirdly, he cannot be a self-employed person within the meaning of the media service provider, fourthly, he cannot be in contractual relations with any media service provider, fifthly, he is prohibited from being a shareholder, shareholder and member of the media service provider, and, lastly, he must not be a member of the Government of the Republic. According to the law, Pille Pruulmann-Vengerfeldt has given written consent to his appointment to the Council and has also confirmed that there is no conflict with the law in his appointment. The Committee on Culture took the view that the proposed candidate met the requirements laid down by law. How did the vote take place? Laine Randjärv, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, presented to the Commission the nominations and voting procedures of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council, a renowned expert in the field of Estonian Public Broadcasting. The vote took place with notes and each member of the Commission had one vote. It is true that two candidates received an equal number of votes, which led to a rescoring round between them. Pille Pruulmann-Vengerfeldt was elected as a result of the secret vote. The final result was this: 7 were in favour of him and 4 were in favour of the second candidate. In this context, it was decided to consensually propose to the Riigikogu that Pille Pruulmann-Vengerfeldt be appointed as a member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U164	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. Colleagues Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U165	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Previously, other candidates were nominated by the committee waitress, whether they were members of the Riigikogu or experts from outside this house. What is the reason why the Committee on Culture does not disclose expert candidates from the National Broadcasting Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U166	We don't think it's right, because maybe a person doesn't want his name to appear in the media, for example. If a person wants to, he can make it public without us.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U167	Thank you. Every member of the Riigikogu is able to ask one oral question when processing this item. No further questions. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The commission has proposed that the draft be put to the final vote on 31. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the 'Announcement of a Member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council, a recognized expert in the field of Estonian Public Broadcasting' 31. Please take a stand and vote. 48 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 4 against and no one abstained. Bill 31 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U168	The ninth item is the second reading of the draft law on supplementing the Adult Education Act, which was initiated by the Committee on Culture. The rapporteur is Jevgeni Ossinovski, member of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U169	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The draft law amending the Adult Education Act is at second reading. As you will remember at first reading, the content of the draft is very technical; in order for the new law to enter into force, it is necessary to repeal the old law. After the first reading, the members of the Riigikogu and the political groups had no amendments to this draft as expected. The Commission decided to send the draft to second reading with a proposal to conclude the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-26_U170	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to start negotiations? There's no call. Second reading of Bill 12 is complete. Since it's 1:00 a.m. and the session is over, today's session is over. Thank you, colleagues. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 1 p.m.
