ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Hello, power! We will begin the 10th working week of the second plenary session. Monday's session, delivery of drafts and inquiries. First of all, the representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, when dealing with the bill. Secondly, the draft law amending the Defence League Act and the Defence Forces Service Act. Hannes Hanso, Minister of Defence, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Act and the Health Insurance Act. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski represents the Government of the Republic when dealing with the bill. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U3	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U4	Honourable speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, we present an inquiry to Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, regarding the intention of Eesti Energia to write down Auvere and Utah's investments. According to Eesti Päevaleht, Eesti Energia is preparing to write down investments to a large extent, including both the Auvere station and the oil shale field of Utah. Although the sense of the investment of 640 million euros at Auvere Station has been discussed for years, Eesti Energia wants to write down the investment by the end of the year ahead. The 12,000-hectare deposit in Utah, U.S.A., with over EUR 51 million, is also supposed to be either written off or disposed of. In this regard, we are asking whether it is true that we are talking about the write-down of investments. Is it true that if the payment of renewable energy to Eesti Energia is not restored, this would mean a write-down of Auvere station by 300 million euros? Since it has become apparent that the Utah region would consume only oil from oil shale, not gas and electricity, and even oil should be transported very far away, in addition to building a refinery, the investment does not make sense. Why was Eesti Energia not previously aware of this? Is the Utah project planned to be completed, or is it intended to continue? Could selling Estonian oil shale technology abroad be more useful than building expensive factories, deposits and routes far from Estonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U5	The President assumes that these are questions from members of the Riigikogu. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U6	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I present an inquiry on behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Marina Kaljuranna. The topic is compensation for occupation damage to the Republic of Estonia by the Russian Federation. On Sunday, 6 December including the Foreign Minister Marina Kaljurand stated to the Russian news portal Interfax that the Government of the Republic of Estonia is not going to claim compensation for occupation damage from the Russian Federation. This statement was motivated by a memorandum of cooperation signed by the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, and colleagues from Latvia and Lithuania, according to which the three Baltic States are making a joint claim for compensation. The Minister of Justice based his activities on the developed position of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, which was notified to the Riigikogu on 14 January 2004. On this basis, the government decided to continue to analyse the compensation for damages caused by the occupying authorities and to prepare a claim for damages, and in particular to support possible claims for damages in relation to human harm. In addition, the Government instructed the Ministry of Justice, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to prepare a claim for damages. No further decisions have been taken by the institutions of the Republic of Estonia. With regard to this information, we are putting four questions to the Foreign Minister. Firstly, on the basis of which decision of the Government of the Republic did you say on 6 December that the Republic of Estonia was not going to claim compensation for occupation damage from the Russian Federation? Secondly, if the decision of the Government of the Republic to accept the waiver of claims for damages has not been drafted, was your position to exceed political powers? Thirdly, when it comes to exceeding the mandate, which has caused serious damage in communication with your partners, Latvia and Lithuania, are you considering political responsibility? And fourthly, how do you assess the effectiveness of further cooperation with the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Lithuania when the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia expresses views for which he does not have a mandate and what is the opposite of the positions of our partners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U7	Again, the manager assumes that the question is from the members of the Riigikogu who have the right to submit them. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U8	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry ahead of me, which has been submitted by 15 members of the Centre Party Group to the Minister for Health and Labour. The essence of the question is that the financing of our health care is poor. Funding is measured as a percentage of GDP and has been around 6% in recent years. In other European countries, however, there are 8 or 10%, and maybe 6% is okay. But when we talked to the Prime Minister here in the Riigikogu about a year ago and I said that it was 6%, he fixed me and said no, it is 6.1% and next year it is 6.2%. Now that the state budget project was published, I went to see what percentage it said. Look and wonder, now it's 5.2%, i.e. it's dropped by almost a whole percentage. That is why we members of the Riigikogu have recorded three questions in our inquiry. But there will certainly be more questions, because 1% of GDP should pay attention; this should be of interest not only to the opposition, but also to the coalition is EUR 200 million. This is not a small amount, given that the queues are increasing, that 85 doctors are being made redundant at the University of Tartu Hospital and that medical care is becoming less and less available to people. EUR 200 million! Where did the government put it? Did he really shovel up there to pick up Estonian Air's last flight? Let our Minister of Labour and Health respond. I believe that we will all listen with interest to what answers we will have to our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U9	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U10	Good Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased that 2016 has been declared the Year of Marine Culture. But maritime can only be declared a year, because there are actually very many problems in maritime policy or the maritime economy. To mention some, Estonia's maritime policy development plan for 2012 has a huge number of points that have not been taken into account at all. Estonian companies have about 50 cargo ships, none of which are in the Estonian maritime register. The Estonian maritime economy is at all divided between eight ministries, so it does not have direct government representation. On all the above points, paying attention also to the Year of Marine Culture, eight members of the Free Party have asked Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas about six questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U11	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U12	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I will give the Act amending the Public Transport Act to the Riigikogu's proceedings. The legislative amendment should keep 500 jobs in Narva alone, not to mention other places, as there may be a much larger number of jobs. The point is that one provision of the Public Transport Act, according to which a taxi driver should be able to speak Estonian at B1, came into force from this autumn. We studied and found out that no one in Narva ever complained that a taxi driver did not speak Estonian or that there were any shortcomings in service. Besides the rules for taxiing in the city of Narva, taxi drivers are forbidden to talk to passengers, for example. The positive is, of course, that the leaders can keep quiet, I'd say, even at level B2. No one asks that this requirement be completely withdrawn, but I would like to remind you once again that there are 500 in all four taxi companies asking for the extension and distribution of the language proficiency requirement for the following periods: October 1st, 2016; A1, October 1st, 2017; A2 and October 1st, 2019; B1. Men have already begun their studies, no one is arguing, but it would be humane to let people learn the language peacefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U13	I have adopted five draft laws and four inquiries on behalf of the board. The draft laws will be dealt with if they comply with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act and enquiries reach the addressees as well as if they comply with the provisions of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Please, let's do the presence check! 83 members of the Riigikogu are present, 18 are missing. Adoption of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? There have been quite a few proposals. Let's go through them one at a time, then we'll be able to move on. First of all, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party has proposed to exclude the seventh item on the agenda of this working week from the agenda of the Tuesday session, the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on National Family Allowances initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. We have always respected the views of the initiator. Looks like it is this time too. Secondly, the Government of the Republic has requested that this working week be removed from the agenda of the Wednesday sitting on the 21st agenda item, the Prime Minister's review of the state of research and development and government policy in this area. Here too, we respect the position of the initiator. The Estonian Free Party Group has proposed to amend the agenda for the Wednesday session of this working week. They have two proposals. The same point that the government wishes to remove from the agenda has been proposed by the Free Party to be the eighth point. We cannot grant both wishes at the same time. If we take the government's proposal into account, we will understand that this point has been left out. The second proposal of the Free Party is to move the 22nd agenda item, an overview of the 2014 report on the Civil Service, to the 9th agenda item. The thing is, it goes to the vote, and if anyone protests, protests, but if everyone agrees, then so be it. Looks like we're all in. Honourable Riigikogu! I understand there are questions, so I'll say it again. On Tuesday, the seventh item, it is proposed to delete it. It is also proposed to delete point 21 on Wednesday. Wednesday 22nd item is heading nine. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U14	The confusion arises from the fact that one of the items we asked for to be brought forward has been withdrawn by the government. In that case, the amended agenda item should be the eighth.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U15	Before the draft state budget law?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U16	Right.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U17	Got it! Then the proposal of the Free Party is such that an overview of the 2014 report on the Civil Service would be the eighth item on Wednesday. Is it clear to everyone what we are voting on? Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the approval of the working week agenda. Please take a stand and vote. 71 delegates were in favour of the draft agenda, 2 against and 3 abstentions. The working week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U18	According to the approved agenda, we first have an inquiry before the Riigikogu members Jaak Madison, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild. Jaak Madison will speak on behalf of the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U19	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party Group...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U20	One moment, please, Jaak Madison! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U21	Of course, everyone has a lot of work to do in their offices right now, and they need to go back, understand? On 28 October, on behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party Group, we presented a question to Mr Hanso about investments in the development of the capabilities of the Defence League. The brief explanation for our inquiry is as follows. In view of the immigration crisis that has hit Europe, the unprecedented number of military conflicts around the world, and especially the growing aggression in the neighbouring countries, national security, therefore also defence capabilities, is of course very important. In addition to the Estonian Defence Forces, the Defence League is a considerable developer of defence capabilities, which, thanks to good training and great motivation, has managed to create considerable defence and response capacity for crisis situations. Unfortunately, it has to be said that due to the large number of new entrants, the defence allies are unable to provide basic equipment and that in Tallinn's Chevron, high-quality weapons are exchanged for weapons from the 1970s. That is why we have asked the Minister for Defence four questions, to which we are also expecting good answers. Firstly, how will the next year's budget cover the procurement of the Defence League's infantry equipment, and to what extent is the purchase of equipment planned? Secondly, why were the weapons replaced by Gall from Tallinn's chess weaponry and replaced with considerably heavier weapons suitable for urban battles AG-3? Thirdly, is the acquisition of infantry armaments planned from the defence budget to replace obsolete and ineffective weapons against newer and more effective ones? Finally, in view of the increased prestige of the Defence League in society and the number of new entrants, the Ministry of Defence does not consider it necessary to allocate additional money to acquire the equipment of the defence allies, to improve training and to create motivation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U22	Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U23	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Thanks for asking. The Defence League, as a nationwide security carpet, is important in our national defence model and, I would say, central. I am very pleased to note that the membership of the Defence League has increased significantly, including Women's Home Defence, Home Daughters and Youth Eagle, and hopefully the trend will continue along the rising line. In the first nine months of this year, the Defence League family increased to 24797 members, i.e. by 1185 people. The number of active members of the Defence League reached 15727 people, i.e. the reserve of the Defence League's defence structure, which is part of the rapid reaction structure of the Defence Forces, increased by potentially 654 fighters. The activity of the Defence League to involve its members in organising various activities and exercises is also welcome. In addition to annual major exercises or regionally oriented major exercises, such as the "Hunt" exercise in Northern Estonia, the "North frog" exercise in Viru County and the "Orcan" exercise in West Estonia, up to 50 training events are planned each week of the calendar year, with the number of participants generally between 1000 and 2000 people. The development of Estonian defence capabilities is systematic and within the framework of the current development plans, we have agreed that until the full operational capability of the military structure of the Defence Forces has been achieved, the sharpness of the efforts will be directed towards the development of the rapid reaction structure of the Defence Forces, including the Defence League's defence forces. I also explain that the full operational capability of the wartime structure means fully trained, manned, armed, equipped and equipped units. But let's put aside the general remarks, so I'll answer your questions fairly in detail. The acquisition of equipment for the Defence League is mostly based on the budget of the Defence Forces and through the procurement of the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence. More than EUR 26 million will be allocated to the purchase and maintenance of the missing equipment of the Defence League's defence units, which are part of the rapid reaction structure of the Defence Forces, on the basis of a procurement plan for the next four years. In addition to this amount, equipment, armaments and ammunition will be provided for the use of the Defence League, which has already been mobilized in the stores of the Defence Forces. More substantial investments will be directed towards the purchase of individual equipment, flak jackets, helmets and night vision equipment for combatants, as well as for the purchase of unit equipment kits, as well as line vehicles. In addition, during the planning period, communication and medical equipment, maintenance and safety equipment and other intended equipment shall be purchased. The Defence Forces' budget for the next year is planned for the Defence League units at EUR 15 million, of which approximately half will be spent on the acquisition of ammunition. The Defence Union's own budget is still planned to finance equipment from this budget, i.e. around EUR 1 million of unused budget funds from 2015. More specifically, next year the Defence League will acquire helmets and flak jackets for EUR 1.86 million, and individual equipment including clothing, footwear, harnesses for EUR 1.97 million. A total of €11.7 million will be invested for the acquisition of helmets, flak jackets and individual equipment over the next four years. In order to ensure tactical mobility, SUVs will be procured for the defence units of the Defence League for the next and the next year, with a total cost of EUR 3.5 million. In 2019, there will be an additional purchase of various types of trucks for EUR 3.4 million. A total of €6.9 million will be invested in the purchase of row vehicles over the next four years. RVs will also be raised in the long term, including investments planned for €1.1 million in 2020. I think that this is an important detail that must be compatible with the existing weapons and equipment, repair and maintenance base of the Defence Forces and the Defence League. As a result, for SUVs and two-tonne trucks, the preferred machinery is German, for example, currently used by Mercedes-Benz Unimog, and the Dutch defence production of 5-tonne trucks, of which DAF is currently used. In order to increase ground force, the entire anti-tank capability of the Defence Forces will be moved qualitatively to a new level. To this end, the Defence Forces' maneuvering units and the Defence League's land defence units will be used for Javelin's mid-earth anti-tank defence complex and a long-distance anti-tank capability programme will be launched. I have also used Javeline in the simulator myself and say that they are highly effective and fast, very mobile and exceptionally modern weapons systems, the use of which can be learned in a few days. But in order to increase the sustainable combat capability, all types of ammunition in the Defence Forces, including the Defence League, will be supplemented. That is the answer to the first question. Now the second question concerning Tallinn's chess, the weapons of Galileo and their replacement. The need for the rearming of Tallinn's Defence League was due to the coincidence of several factors, and the process has progressed in close cooperation between the Commander of the Defence League and the Commander of the Defence Forces. The ATMs AG-3 are a modernised version of AK-4 of Norwegian origin. During the upgrading process, the weapons are fitted with collapsing flaps and fixing of accessories. The final result is a compact, high firepower and capable automatic, suitable for operation in urban battle conditions and capable of being fitted with accessories, such as weapons bases, grenade launchers, flashlights, etc. In the light of the logic of military capability needs and logistical support, it is always appropriate that the units rely primarily on a single weapon platform. The Defence League had in the past developed a situation where Tallinn's chess was used by machine guns in Galileo, but the rest of the chess machines had AK-4. What is important here is the fact that when Galileo uses ammunition with a calibre of 5.56 mm, AK-4 uses ammunition of 7.62 mm and therefore it was not possible to cross-use ammunition of different automatics. This led to excessive logistical pressure on the Defence Forces and the Defence League, both for the use of units in the acquisition of ammunition with different calibres and for the maintenance and repair of the weapons systems necessary to support the life cycle. Furthermore, the transition to the same weapons system will allow weapons training and shooting exercises to be carried out on a uniform basis. In the context of the re-arming of Tallinn's Defence League, it is also important that the machines delivered to Estonia in the first half of the 1990s Gali are now more than 20 years old, but the life of the weapons in active use is gradually ending. Modernized ATMs AG-3, which have already been mentioned, are in a much better condition in terms of life. According to the Commander of the Defence League, the assessment of the Estonian Defence League's state-of-the-art fighters on ATMs AG-3 is very positive. I also went to see one of the lessons where the head of Tallinn's chess gave me the same assurance. Since the automatics Galil still uses the 1st Infantry Brigade, the resources released as a result of the harmonisation of the Armed Firearms of the Defence League have been provided to replace the individual machines already physically worn by the brigade units, including the Scouts Battalion. Question three. Has the defence budget planned the acquisition of weapons for the infantry to replace obsolete ineffective weapons with newer and more effective weapons? Enhancing the capabilities of the militia's military component, including the defense structure manned by the Defence League, is a priority to strengthen our defence capabilities. The largest capacity development programme is the arms transfer of the Defence Forces' rapid reaction structure, including the Defence League's militias, with modern medium-range anti-tank systems Javelin, with a shooting distance of 2.5 to 4,0 kilometres, as I have already mentioned. So the initial training of Defence Forces and Defence Union instructors was already done in September and the training of the Defence Union structural units can start next year. More than EUR 26 million has been allocated to the acquisition and maintenance of missing equipment by the Defence League's militias, and in addition to this amount, equipment, armaments and stockpiles previously acquired by the Defence Forces will be provided for the use of the Defence League. So the answer is, yes, work is on. The fourth question is about the prestige of the Defence League, the number of participants and additional resources. As has already been mentioned, the number of members of the Defence League is indeed growing rapidly, and I am very pleased about that. The funding of the Defence Union comes mainly from the annual ad hoc grant received from the Ministry of Defence, which represents more than 98% of the estimated revenue of the Defence Union this year. We will look at the exact amounts by year: EUR 21.4 million in 2011, EUR 25.5 million in 2012, EUR 26.5 million in 2013 and EUR 30.4 million last year, EUR 32.6 million this year, and according to the draft state budget for the next year currently pending by the Riigikogu, the ad hoc support of the Defence League will also increase in the following year if it reaches EUR 33.7 million. In this sense, we are moving in the very right direction, precisely where we want to go, i.e. the funding of the Defence League is constantly increasing and the equipment is also improving. Other motivation. The motivation of the members of the Defence League, I hope, will also make it possible to promote the National Defence Act, which will enter into force next January, and others will be amended by it, which will provide for the possibility of a military career for a person who is not in a military capacity. The new law allows the active members of the Defence League, including the Women's Home Guard, to consent to his appointment for the post of wartime. It shall entail the acquisition of a military rank, subject to the conditions of education and military training. The new regime will allow the involvement of a much larger number of willing members of the Defence League in military activities, who, as has already been mentioned, will be able to pursue a military career through training and courses. The active member of the Defence League who has consented to the appointment of a military post may withdraw his consent at a later date, except in the event of an increased willingness to defend. Since my time is about to come to an end, I cannot dwell on this in more detail, but I hope that I have already answered all the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U24	Now is the time to ask questions. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U25	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister, thank you for your answers. I'm still coming back to the armory. Having tried both Galileo and AG-3 myself, I am not at all in favour of AG-3. It's a kilogram heavier and a horrible tender one, as soon as the grain of sand gets in, it gets jammed. No one's happy with it, all the defence allies are complaining, but the Ministry says it's okay. It's like there's a conflict somewhere. So which side is full of shit? Is the Department of Defense wrong or are the defence allies who use this weapon every day and have to fight it in an emergency? I've checked that there's only 600 of Galiles in exchange, the Defence League in Tallinn. But Galileo's market price is so-called candy money for big investments, it's a few hundred dollars. In the near future, do you not see the need to invest more in decent handguns to ensure at least comfortable fighting for the Defence League?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U26	Thank you for your question. I have written confirmation from the Chief of the Defence League that the weapons will be satisfied. Of course, I don't know how to comment on individual problems. Any new system or weapon will definitely require getting used to. It's tried and proven to be a very well-proven weapon. I believe that Estonian defence allies, like the rest of the Defence Forces, will get used to them. These are modernised versions with a much longer life span compared to current weapons. They also allow cross-use, as already mentioned. So I guess people get used to them. I believe that this decision between the Defence League and the Defence Forces was well founded and the best solution was found in the current situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U27	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U28	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! The issue of Galileo is linked with the thought that you once mentioned here, namely, the urban battle. The training "Orcan" took place, probably relatively successfully, in which Saaremaa, Pärnumaa and Läänemaa were involved, but not Tallinn's. As far as I know, no urban battle is practiced in Tallinn. The Gauls were brought to Tallinn at the time with the idea that they would be more effective in the city battle. I have this more general question: when will the Chevrons of the largest city of Estonia begin to practice defending the city instead of swamps and forests?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U29	Thank you. On Sunday of the week before last, I myself participated in a battle exercise in Tallinn's chess city in northern Tallinn. It was in Nõmme, Kadriorg and also in northern Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U30	Thank you. According to § 140 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, one question can be asked. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U31	Thank you very much. I have to start with a reply about my good colleagues. As the help of the chief of the Tallinn chess in the Defence League, I can assure you that Tallinn's chess is practicing quite a bit in the city. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of Defense, for your answers. There's one thing I heard. You mentioned the purchase of helmets and flak jackets. Are you sure they're vests, or are they maybe vests? There is a fundamental use and price difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U32	Thank you. I'll check the papers. It says helmets and flak jackets. My colleagues and I need to clarify the difference between bullet or rubble vests. Yeah, well, there's "ball vests" running through the text. I don't know exactly what to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U33	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U34	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! That's the question: what kind of group are you a member of, and since when?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U35	A person can stand up for national defence in a variety of functions. I do this 24 hours every day, but I'm not a member of any chess.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U36	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U37	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. How is it planned to improve the equipment of other units, such as internal defence units, for those who are not so-called battle units?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U38	The Defence Union's budget is growing every year. Technical decisions within the Defence Union shall be taken by the Head of the Union. As has already been rightly mentioned, indeed, we have a priority, that is, all that concerns the Rapid Response Unit, a priority. We need to achieve full manhood, full training, equipment, etc. So, of course, all topics are dealt with, but priorities first.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U39	Thank you to the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. It can be assumed that the Minister also does not wish to add anything. I will close this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U40	On behalf of the heirs Jaak Madison, Henn Põlluaasa, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeiti, Raivo Põldaru, Arno Silla and Martin Helme, the speaker will be Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U41	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I will read our inquiry to the Minister of Defence about the involvement of the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Chief of Air Force in day-to-day politics. The Defence Forces Service Act § 123 clearly states that an active soldier may not engage in the dissemination of political views during the performance of his duties. It may also not exercise any power of command or disciplinary authority in the interests of political parties. On 4 September 2015, Riho Terras, the leader of the Defence Forces, spread in the news portals and major media publications from the opening of the Defence Forces United Educational Institutions of 1 September 2015. Mr Terras said: 'In addition to Russia's aggressive behaviour, the tensions in society involving refugees are a worrying aspect. One of the security risks is the blind intolerance of some pressure groups towards refugees. " This is clearly a strong intervention in daily politics and an unmistakable spread of political views before subordinates. Apart from the political message, it gives defence forces and the Defence League very strong guidelines for taking a stand on immigration issues. Unfortunately, it wasn't the last case. On 28 October, Commander of the Air Force, Colonel Jaak Tarien wrote in his social media post that he was ashamed and embarrassed by his fellow nationalists, who were said to have attacked allied soldiers both verbally and physically in Tallinn. However, unfortunately, no example of actual cases has been provided so far to confirm that attacks were motivated precisely by racism. Thus, this intervention was also an intervention in day-to-day policy, because the information based on rumours has led to views that have a strong influence on political discussion. We therefore ask the following questions in our inquiry. First of all, do you consider that the speeches made by these active troops or by the general active troops on topical political issues are in accordance with the law? Secondly, has the Government or the Ministry of Defence provided guidance to the Defence Forces and/or the Defence League to take positions on political issues, in particular migration? Thirdly, in the light of the Urmas Reitelmann case, how did you assess Riho Terras and Jaak Tarinen's speech, the first of which was critical of immigration policy, but at the same time the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Commander of the Air Force gave clear guidelines on accepting government policies and criticising political organisations and people who were different from the government? Fourthly, do you not consider this to be a violation of the principles of civil control, or even worse, of the banana-free state, where senior military personnel are being put in a state of government policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U42	Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso will answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U43	Good Riigikogu! In my opinion, it is the task of the Commander of the Defence Forces to assess threats to Estonia's security and to advise me as a minister and the government in making decisions concerning Estonia's security. The Commander of the Defence Forces is the highest military advisor whose job is to deal with these issues and identify threats. I believe that the Commander of the Defence Forces is right and, because of his work, he is also obliged to speak openly about security threats. This is where refugees were mentioned, the refugee crisis. Yes, this is a very large-scale challenge for the whole of Europe, which clearly also has elements of the security dimension, so this issue should not be ignored. I think that reducing the mother of refugees to a mere day-to-day issue is underestimating it. The fact that Lieutenant General Terras highlighted the security risks associated with the refugee debate is fully justified. Society, including students in Defence Forces United Educational Institutions, must understand the seriousness of the situation. I don't think your attempt to put a sign of interference in day politics on the expert evaluation of the Commander of the Defence Forces is statesmanly. It really is neither beautiful nor meaningful to drag this into day-to-day politics. The second question concerns guidelines. I am not going to take this further, I am simply saying that neither the Defence Forces nor the Defence League have been instructed. The third question is the comments made by Riho Terras and Jaak Tarien in the light of the Reitelmann case. Urmas Reitelmann insulted many people living in Estonia, our citizens, as well as those who participate in national defence as volunteers or professional workers. Indeed, such statements must have no place in Estonian society or in any normal democratic tolerant country. In his speech, the Commander of the Defence Forces assessed Estonia's security threats and did his job with it. So, once again, it is wrong to stick to this day's policy label. Chief of the Air Force, Colonel Tarien, expressed his personal opinion on the incident that took place with the Allied soldiers who had come to defend Estonia. I'm surprised they think it's a rumor. The American commander in Estonia himself mentioned this issue to Colonel Tarien. I do not believe that people with such caliber spend time in Estonia spreading rumors; rather, they have come here to protect us in difficult times. The fourth question, whether I consider that this is not a violation of the principle of civil control or, even worse, of the banana-free state situation. In the Banana Republic, the country is run by military personnel and politicians do what the military say. Our country is the other way around. I hope that your party will also have more faith in the institutions of our country. We've seen some other parties here who seem to have little. Defence forces provide military advice to the government and implement government decisions. This is the civilian control we've built all these years. The Commander of the Defence Forces and the Commander of the Air Force have the right to express their opinion, especially as regards the assessment of Estonia's security. We talk about these problems very often, both in regular meetings and in other formats. Once again, as has already been mentioned, it is not my opinion that it is statesmanly to put a label on the intervention of the Commander of the Defence Forces in daily politics for an expert evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U44	Questions. Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U45	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Minister! As far as the American military here is concerned, or believing in him, this is not a question of faith. We asked if there was any evidence that the attack was motivated by racism. If there's no evidence to that effect, it's a rumor. We are also very concerned about the institutions of the Estonian state, their independence and constitutionality, which is why we submitted an inquiry. It's not quite right to come and put a sign on us that we're dealing with politicisation. I was offended when Terras said that blind intolerance motivated the anti-immigration. And it insulted many more. When you talk about the Reitelmann statement and the fact that it was offensive, Terras' statement just as insulted a lot of people. Immigration is a political issue. We are not talking about a threat assessment, but about whether or not immigration is a security risk for Estonia. Terras made a clear political assessment of this. Do you really think that's right?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U46	Was that a question? Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U47	I will ask again whether, in his opinion, this really is not an intervention in politics.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U48	The time for this question is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U49	No, it's not an intervention in politics. Terras referred to security risks in his speech. I think that our common goal with the Commander of the Defence Forces, whose term of office, I recall, was just extended by two years, because he has done a very good job of avoiding situations where Estonia's security would be compromised and our allies could be under some kind of pressure because of such unpleasant incidents as have occurred. This is certainly not in our interest. Reitelmann insulted people and labeled them according to a certain affiliation. Such statements are very damaging to us, but I do not think that calling for tolerance and reasonableness is a matter of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U50	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U51	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! After all, the name of the Banana Republic comes from Central Africa, where North American corporations in a number of countries essentially took over agriculture, the cultivation of certain cultures and, with it, dictated the policy there, the one who would become the government and who would become the president. We saw last week how foreign chambers of commerce here intervened in our internal policies. It's a complete phenomenon of the banana republic. So, you're welcome or you're against me, but your government is like the government of the banana republic. Here's the question. Do you think that the United States and our other allies are here only because Estonia is tolerant/non-satisfying, or because we have signed a Union Treaty with them and they have geopolitical interests here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U52	Thank you. We have signed the Treaty and it is based on the fact that there is an organisation with common values and functioning independent institutions. These countries must be democratic in nature. It is certainly not in line with the fundamental values of an organisation such as NATO that hate speech, incitement to intolerance and labelling people. NATO is a collective defence organisation, a security organisation. I think it is in the interest of all of us if NATO equally protects everyone, in any of its Member States. The articles in this regard are also set out in the Treaty. They are here because the security situation in our region is now more intense than it was a few years ago. We want them to want to stay here and stay here. In fact, our determination, as well as the joint wish of the Baltic States, is just one of the positions that we are now coordinating with them before the Warsaw Summit, and next week I will also sign a paper with them to increase NATO's presence here. No unpleasant incident will contribute to this process.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U53	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U54	Minister, thank you for your answers. Tagging must be condemned. In the same way, we must condemn the fact that the Minister of Defence declares that he justifies the Commander of the Defence Forces, who has called the anti-immigration force driven by blind intolerance. It's tagging, and it's really embarrassing. When it comes to defence agreements, it is precisely us that have fulfilled all the obligations on which we have signed. We're increasing our presence in Mali, we're in the Central African Republic. Therefore, we have fulfilled all our obligations. But when I come back to NATO's collective defence, I am more interested in why there is a great accusation in the Urmas Reitelmann case that his statement was incitement to hatred, and it is not considered to be expressing his opinion, but the Commander of the Defence Forces is said to be merely expressing his opinion. Do you consider different treatment appropriate and do you not see that the two cases need to be assessed equally?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U55	Thank you. I need to be more specific. Indeed, there is no NATO mission in the Central African Republic, we were talking about allies and presence. There are no Estonian Defence Forces there either. In Mali, the Estonian troops, the officers are one of the UN's mandates, the other under the European Union, and there is no NATO mission either. This is another thing we talked about here. Nor has anyone ever said that the Commander of the Defence Forces expressed his opinion there. We were talking about the Air Force Chief. It is the right and duty of the Commander of the Defence Forces to clearly demonstrate the potential security risks of our country, and he did so.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U56	Uno Kaskpeit.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U57	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You said that the term of office of the Commander of the Defence Forces was extended for two years thanks to a very good job. Some time ago, the Commander of the Defence Forces ran around the Knight of the Crusader's White Halat on the Estonian Defence Forces uniform. Do you think it's a good job? I didn't see any political response to that. Anyway, I was very ashamed of my Finnish colleagues who laughed and said that the next day this man should no longer be in this position.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U58	Thank you. You must ask your party partner, who strongly supported the appointment of the Commander of the Defence Forces and the extension of his term of office in the National Defence Committee. He has indeed done a very good job. The Estonian state has never been so well protected before. As far as I know, the Commander of the Defence Forces has long since stepped out of the organization you mentioned and discussed in the National Defence Committee. Everything else is a matter of your own taste.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U59	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U60	Thank you, good speaker! Minister, thank you very much. Of course, it is extremely deplorable and regrettable when there are some racist attacks on our Allied soldiers or at all, but according to the General Staff, no such cases have been registered anywhere. I'm interested in what you and the others are relying on. Please inform us where, when and what kind of incident took place!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U61	Thank you. These incidents took place, not within working hours, but outside working hours. As the United States soldiers were involved, I suggest you, if this is a priority issue for you, turn to the U.S. representation, embassy or to the American contingent leader in Estonia to find out more details. We don't keep a record of it, but I believe the American commander if he mentions something that is one of their problems in their presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U62	Now Arno Bridge asks.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U63	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Can you give us a brief explanation of what it's like with foreign soldiers who'll take care of them? Do our police have to arrange this or the American embassy, the Americans themselves? How's that practically supposed to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U64	In Estonia, the same rules apply to all people present here, especially when it comes to outside work. So here's the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U65	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I understand Martin Helme is performing on behalf of the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U66	Mr. Speaker! Good minister! Of course, we will not be satisfied with these answers at all. What bothers us the most? There are two or three things. First of all, the duality of the entire incumbent government, total duplicity. If one of the uniform carriers is making a critical speech on immigration, then the whole government is ashamed and everyone is asking if it should be let go. They don't only let go when the pressure from the public is too strong. However, if a high-ranking uniformant sings on the same songsheet as the government, it is a great freedom of speech, and there is, of course, no mention of any civil control. It's two-faced, it's a double standard, and it's a banana-free country. Another very worrying thing is that if, indeed, the military institutions of our country are politicised, i.e. if our high military members are either on their own initiative, thinking that it will benefit their careers, or if, in the light of some small hint of a coffee conversation, politically speak out with 'government support' positions. Such a thing should not fit into a country that meets democratic standards of civil control. The third very, very worrying question is that, frankly, it will not be understood, and we still did not receive an answer to who still rules in Estonia, whether the Estonian government, the US embassy or some senior military member. It is clear to me that there has been no racist incident with any American soldiers. Oh, for heaven's sake! If Article 5 of the NATO Treaty ceases to work every time an American soldier gets into a bar fight, the paper doesn't cost anything. Neither will any of the so-called security guarantees that President Obama himself went to share in Estonia pay anything. If Estonia misses its so-called ally commitments because there is not enough high enough rainbow flag to fly here, then there is nothing to do with these allies. Let us just say that in 2004, when Estonia joined NATO, no one told us that it was a condition for the American soldiers to come to the rescue that we had gay marriages. There was no such condition. If it had been, I would have thought about it several times, frankly, whether it was worth joining such a thing. So the story that just sounded like answers and that has generally sounded in this debate is, frankly, slightly embarrassing. In the same way, it is embarrassing for the higher military and the minister to be involved in spreading rumours. The United States embassy has confirmed that according to their records, their soldier did not get into a fight on racist motives. The Estonian police do not have any information at all; the Defence Forces do not have any information in the same way. However, we are constantly talking about some racist incidents in Estonia with American soldiers, with no examples to give. There's only some sort of religious story that we believe and we don't believe. I would still like to stress here that the majority of the Estonian population opposes mass immigration in Estonia. If the higher politicians are ashamed of their own people, they should seriously consider whether they are fit for office. If the higher politicians go against the will of the people, then it is not the people who need to improve themselves, but the politicians themselves must change their positions or positions. The same applies to senior military personnel. It cannot be said that the opposite of mass immigration is a security risk in Estonia. Yes, of course it is, but from a very different angle to what Terras was referring to or what Mr. Secretary of Defense was talking about right now. It is a risk because of terrorism and because it creates fragmentation and instability in society, for other reasons. It is also a risk in the sense that we no longer control our territory, not because we do not have a flag of tolerance high enough in Estonia. So we see Estonia in danger of making military institutions do government propaganda. We don't like it. We will draw attention to this in our inquiry and call the government to order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U67	There's no more calls. Would the Minister like a word? Yeah. The Minister has the right to state his point of view after the speeches. Please, Hannes Hanso!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U68	Thank you. Once again, I don't want to get into some populist moaning in front of you. This is where racist incidents, gay marriages were put together, there was talk of some fights, I don't know where such information was taken from, and there was talk of mass immigration. In Estonia, the country is run by politicians and decision-making politicians. The government's positions, including on defence issues, are expressed by politicians, as is appropriate in a normal democratic country with civilian control. I am not ashamed of the Republic of Estonia, I believe in its institutions. I suggest that all the people in the Riigikogu hall should also do so. I wouldn't label our own country a banana republic. To be honest, it is extremely regrettable that such an idea may even come to mind. Estonia is a very advanced country from its freedoms, such as freedom of the press and everything else. Everyone has the right to express their views if it remains within the limits of the law. But once again, intolerance, insult, people's tagging, etc. deserve to be condemned. Someone here was even called a chick. This is not the 21st century country I want to live in. As a minister, I am certainly going to do everything in my power to ensure that our country remains where the laws in force and they are enforced, and everyone has a role to play, including the Defence Forces. As I mentioned before, neither I nor, as far as I know, anyone else has given orders or instructions to the command of the Defence Forces. It is self-evident that the management of the Defence Forces draws attention to Estonia's security problems. The last question was whether our organisational membership of NATO was so strong or so weak. Luckily, there isn't. I also hope that some of these incidents will be enough in the ocean and that our allies will be more present. Maybe some people don't like it. Go to Tapa yourself and see who our allies are! Maybe some people don't like what they look like. But it leaves me deeply indifferent, my priority is Estonia and security. This is what we are doing with allies, among whom, as has already been said, people of various ethnic backgrounds. They've got to be good here, or we're gonna play the trumps on the opposite team. I really hope none of us here is working for that. We must be strong as an organisation, and we must also be united and strong internally as a country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U69	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U70	And now, after the hammer hit, there's a free microphone. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U71	Ladies and gentlemen, A few observations about our work and our activities. Two weeks ago, together with 15 Members of Parliament, we handed over the draft law on the repeal of the Cohabitation Act. We had a request that this be dealt with as a matter of urgency, because the adoption of the implementing provisions of the Cohabitation Act has been blocked and it is seen that it has further divided society. Unfortunately, the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs has not listened to this request. I know that the representative of the Free Party proposed that we respect the practices of parliamentarianism and bring to the Riigikogu, as soon as possible, all three drafts of this solution compromise proposed by the Free Party itself, the joint draft law of the Centre Party and the EKRE ambassadors, which would repeal the Cohabitation Act, as well as the implementing provisions. Unfortunately, the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Socialist Heljo Pikhof, has decided that it will go on a longer wave and we will discuss it either in January or February. But this is very short-sighted action because we know that the Cohabitation Act, the basic law that was passed last year, will apply from 1 January 2016. We've adopted laws here before under the urgent procedure, unreasonable things. This time, however, is a sensible thing and we could use the urgency procedure now, but unfortunately we are not doing it. However, there are consequences. The second observation is that, as it can be seen that Parliament's role must grow, there is a huge amount of confusion about the appointment of a Member of the European Court of Auditors. The Reform Party desperately wants to send Juhan Parts there, although not to any of the questions asked by the opposition of the parliament, whether it concerns Utah's investment or Auvere's investment, the confusion of public procurement in Tallinn Harbour or the Estonian Air, has not given a reply. It is clear that the Reform Party is also co-responsible in these cases. Why can't we bring the Court's debate to Parliament? The appointment of such a weighty institution requires the approval of the Riigikogu. It is a highly paid position for six years and should take account not only of the salary but also of the content of the work. We know that it is up to the Member of the European Court of Auditors to monitor both the targeting and the feasibility of the funds. We should put in a person who can adequately estimate the tax money collected by Estonia and be its reasonable user. It is not possible to send a person to the control room who has burned over EUR 500 to 600 million. Are we going to promote people for spending and burning money in the future? My conclusion is that I still recognise that parliamentarianism in Estonia is not making progress, but is rather in decline. Those people who have remained in this Chamber, there are a handful of them, could think about what we could do and what we could do to increase the role of Parliament, which has been spoken of for more than ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-07_U72	The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 4 p.m.
