ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U1	Good fellows, good afternoon. Let's start the briefing. Honourable members of the government, good guests and everyone watching Question Time at all! First, we'll run a presence check. 56 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; 45 members are absent. In today's Question Hour, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu will take part in the duties of Prime Minister Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and Minister of Finance Sven Sester. Dear colleagues, I have a request for you. Ten questions have been registered, so we agree that each of the registered questioners can ask one further question, and one more on-the-spot question is allowed. Please, let's begin!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U2	The author of the first question is Kadri Simson, a member of the Riigikogu, who deals with home expenses and answers the duties of Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu Prime Minister. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U3	Dear Urmas Reinsalu! A year ago, on 1 June, you wrote an article in which you criticised the government of the newly created Social Democrats and Reform Party and their decisions to raise certain taxes. In this article, you called the last Thursday of May last year a black Thursday because it was on that day that the Cabinet approved a series of tax increases. Among other things, you rightly criticised the decision to significantly increase prices for people who heat their homes with light fuel oil. And now, the day before yesterday, with the support of the votes of the IRL, a new cluster bill was presented to the Riigikogu, which contains tax increases again. Among these tax increases is a significant increase in the price of light fuel oil, which you criticised a year ago. Why do you support the increase in home expenses?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U4	Honourable questioner! The clear view is that it is in the interests of the owners of housing that the government plans to take a number of steps, including a insulation programme for apartment buildings of EUR 100 million. In addition, the government also intends to lighten the burden on owners who rent out real estate, we want to alleviate taxes on the rent income they receive. In addition, the government intends to review renewable energy charges, which are an important component of energy prices. One practical problem related to compliance with the Constitution is the payment of farm charges to property owners. The Ministry of Justice intends to put forward proposals in the near future to ensure that farm charges are fair. As regards the scheme to increase excise duty on fuels, the government's policy is to tax fuels on the basis of their use for motor fuels and heating fuels and their energy content. And what is important is that we also have in mind that the new excise duty rates would account for only 7% of the excise duty on diesel fuel and that the new excise duty on oil shale fuel oil would only represent 11.5% of the excise duty on diesel fuel.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U5	First supplementary question, Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U6	Thank you. Dear Urmas Reinsalu! This previous government, which you very eagerly criticised, passed a law banning the use of special-purpose diesel in homes on 1 May this year. Consequently, excise duty had to be paid for this fuel from 1 May and this resulted in an increase in prices. The excise duty rate increased by 354%, and now your government coalition, the new one that you no longer criticise, will raise the excise duty on home heating fuel by 38% in the coming years. This represents a significant increase in home costs for around 3,200 households. There will certainly not be enough funding for all of KredEx's support measures; in addition, the support measure will cover a maximum of 40% of the expenditure. How do you suggest that those homeowners whose heating costs are going to increase very much because of this price increase manage?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U7	Honourable questioner! When we talk about people's livelihoods, we know that a very large proportion of people with lower levels of taxation are also homeowners in Estonia. In Estonia, the share of homeowners is one of the largest in Europe. In order to improve the livelihood of these people, the government plans to increase the income support from 1 January next year with the biggest leap in the last ten years. It is known that the purpose of income support is to cover housing costs. In addition, the government intends to enforce additional income support for individual pensioners, who are the most vulnerable group in this sense, that the housing costs of one household member are high. An important measure is also the reimbursement of low-wage earners, which is due to enter into force on 1 January 2016 according to government plans, and from 2017 onwards, which should also improve the livelihood of these people. In terms of fuel and excise policy, as I said, the government believes that it must be based on fuel use and energy content. This increase, which was foreseen by the previous government, was later corrected in Parliament in a lighter direction for homeowners, and I welcome that. However, it is right that it will apply from 1 May 2015, just as the previous parliamentary formation in its law enforced.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U8	And now there's a matter registered on the spot. Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Urmas Reinsalu! In the 2011 Riigikogu elections, you promised a reduction in home expenses. In practice, home costs have increased by at least 50%. You did not fulfil your promise then, and you have not fulfilled it in the current government. Was that promise because of the promise, and you never plan on fulfilling it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U10	Thank you, Honourable Asker. In 2011, we made clear promises to the voters, and I am pleased that the previous parliamentary assembly has also helped to implement them. We will certainly continue to implement these policies in the future. Firstly, in Estonia, the land under home is exempt from tax. There was serious controversy over this, and a number of forces fought against it. I am pleased that the exemption from land tax remains valid during the present coalition. Secondly, we promised an apartment building renovation programme and I am pleased that this has come true for EUR 40 million. It is right that this possibility has been used less in several regions, especially in Ida-Virumaa. We certainly need to take more account of the regional component when introducing new measures when implementing the thermal insulation programme for apartment buildings. But just as the IRL promised in this year's elections, the EUR 100 million programme for renovation of apartment buildings will be fully implemented in this period of European Union funds. So the steps that the IRL has promised to take in the elections, we have managed to ensure and do so in positive cooperation with other political forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U11	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U12	Let us move on to the next question. The author of the question is Andres Herkel, member of the Riigikogu, and the Minister of Finance Sven Sester answers that question. The subject is the suppression of tax laws. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U13	Thank you. Dear Minister, Let me congratulate you first. Because when you look at the draft laws that the government has come to the Riigikogu, it seems that the Ministry of Finance is becoming a real super ministry. I am thinking not only of the cluster law that wants to implement unprecedented tax changes quickly, but also of the striking transfer of regional administration to the Ministry of Finance. This facility has really started to grow into a super ministry. My question is why such a concentration of power is needed. Why do you put the Riigikogu back in this state of rubber stamp? As I understand it, the bill of amendment of income tax, social tax and other taxes should, in your opinion, be subject to Riigikogu proceedings within the next few weeks. At the same time, members of the opposition's Free Party have submitted a collective appeal proposing that excise increases be eliminated. Should these documents not be processed at a single pace?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U14	Thank you, dear questioner. Good Parliament! We have to start from a distance. The aim of the current government coalition is to base fiscal policy on the objective that direct taxes, i.e. labour taxes, will decrease and, essentially, more indirect taxes on consumption, pollution and also vices, will increase as a result of the principle of fiscal neutrality. No tax changes can be seen separately; this is a comprehensive solution. One very remarkable decision was made at the last session of the previous presidency. The decision that one or the other tax amendment must be adopted six months before the entry into force of a specific tax amendment. Looking at the pace that has now been prepared for tax changes, it must be said that the procedure has begun on the legislative side. There is no press to carry it out in one or two weeks; it is linked to the speed of the Riigikogu's own proceedings. Looking closer, I see you have at least a month and a half. Some tax changes can also lead to slower movements. However, if the Riigikogu wants to proceed very quickly, there is an opportunity for this. The government has now met all the interested parties, and the explanatory memorandum states beautifully what interest groups think about one or another tax change. At government level, both informally and formally, action has been taken in this direction for at least a month. So it is not correct to say that the pace is very fast or that everything will be done in one week.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U15	The first question to be specified, Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U16	Thank you. Dear Minister, First of all, I think that this six-month rule must in no way marginalise the role of the Riigikogu. But let's get to the point. I have some data here that reflect the share of excise duties in the tax revenue of the countries of the European Union. And they speak quite clear language. The percentage of excise duties is the highest in Bulgaria, where it is 18%, we have about 14%. We are going to approach Bulgaria and we are going very clearly on the road that the share of excise duties in tax revenues is disproportionate. At the same time, very many international experts and organisations have pointed out that Estonia's share of property taxes is low. My question is: why do we reinvent, under your leadership, a bicycle with apparently poor driving qualities and which has not been tested?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U17	Good questioner! Parliament, and especially the parties represented in Parliament, has the opportunity to make various tax policy decisions. I know that a good questioner has once proposed taxing people's property and taxing higher potential income, including corporate income. These are proposals that the good questioner has brought to the table at earlier stages. The task of politicians is to decide which tax policy they consider to be right in Estonia. The current government coalition has made it very clear that labour taxes must fall. This means that more money will be left in the hands of a person, which in turn means that a person will be more able to choose what to do with his or her money. The alternative would be to base the policy of the state collecting more money from people by raising taxes on property and labour. In that case, it would be like the state would be wiser to say what money can do. However, this decision has been taken by the current government coalition, and I think it reflects the trend of the last ten years in which labour taxes have gradually, but certainly decreased. I think that the decision of the government coalition reflects very clearly the vision in which the three political parties, the IRL, the Social Democrats and the Reform Party, have agreed among themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U18	Now, one issue registered on the spot. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. If previous governments have been in the same situation that there has been an urgent need to pass a law, be it tax increases or other important issues, the opportunity given by the Riigikogu's Law on Home and Rules of Procedure has been used to come before Parliament with a declaration of mistrust of the Prime Minister or Government. And this is a package of amendments to some laws. Does this government have such a move in mind? Today is 27 May, as we know, on 11 June this parliamentary session will end. So there's not much time, but the first reading hasn't even happened yet. Does the government intend to come before Parliament and link tax increases to a vote of confidence?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U20	The government has not made such a decision so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U21	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U22	Let us move on to the third question asked by Riigikogu member Martin Helme. The answer is the role of the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, Prime Minister, and the topic is the expansion of the circle of initiators of constitutional supervision. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U23	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Mr. Minister! The President of the Supreme Court made a presentation last time he was before the Riigikogu, in which he pointed out, among other things, that the possibility of initiating constitutional supervision is very limited for a number of institutions in Estonia. More specifically, there are only two institutions, the President and the Chancellor of Justice, who can initiate constitutional supervision. All other cases, when constitutional review is initiated, come from within the judicial system itself, which are therefore bottom-up complaints, in particular of a technical nature. I would like to give an example of statistics that 40% of the 66 constitutional review procedures that arrived at the Supreme Court were normal technical and half, or 33, of the proceedings found that the Constitution had been violated.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U24	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U25	My question is, is the Justice Department planning to expand this circle...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U26	Good questioner, your time is up! Please respond to Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U27	This is a very serious issue. Indeed, we have a mechanism for addressing fundamental rights at constitutional level so that a person can address the Chancellor of Justice with a specific request for a regulation. Thus, the Chancellor of Justice has the function of 'constitutional prosecutor' and can or cannot initiate proceedings on the basis of his understanding of whether this is a problem. Secondly, any person has the possibility to apply to the courts if he or she considers that his or her subjective right has been infringed by a legislative act. This procedure will then be initiated by the court and will be reached when the court considers it necessary for constitutional review procedures at the level of the Supreme Court. In a number of countries, there is also an individual opportunity to complain about the Constitution. People can turn directly to the Supreme Court or to the Supreme Court for the protection of their fundamental rights when other remedies are exhausted. I personally think that this issue deserves serious analysis, and I certainly do not take the view that the current system is perfect. The channels through which constitutional review procedures can be initiated individually are very narrow and, in my opinion, this system deserves to be reviewed. The President of the Supreme Court has also pointed out that this right could also be considered for a certain minority of the parliament. That, too, I think, is something that deserves to be analyzed. However, the Government Union has not taken a clear position on how to resolve this issue and change the system. But I'm sure the Justice Department will analyze it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U28	The first supplementary question, Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U29	Thank you. I'll ask you the rest of my question. Has the Ministry of Justice received such a proposal from the President of the Supreme Court, or are you planning to initiate such a draft yourself? Actually, it's not like there's anything to really analyze. Citizens will not be able to appeal to the courts for constitutional review if they want to check the constitutional compliance of some laws and not to refer to the violation of their personal rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U30	I would remind you that in 2001, on the last day when Lennart Meri was in office as President, he handed over a draft law amending the Constitution. He proposed the creation of a separate constitutional review court in Estonia and giving people the right to turn to Estonia in order to protect their individual fundamental rights when other remedies have been exhausted. As regards the question of whether people should have the right to apply for the control of a standard or to lodge only an individual constitutional complaint, there are a number of possible solutions here. The current system, in my opinion, is too narrow and deserves to be reviewed. The question was whether the President of the Supreme Court had made concrete proposals to amend the constitutional review procedure. No, he has not made a specific proposal to the Ministry of Justice, but he mentioned it as a reference in his report speech last year. I know that the President of the Supreme Court will also present a report on the court order next month, and then the Members of Parliament will be able to ask him for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U31	And now one question registered on the spot, Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U32	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. One possible option to extend the possibility of initiating constitutional supervision is to give this right to the political groups in Parliament. This has already been discussed in certain bodies and institutions. But my question concerns the constitutional review decisions that have already been taken. In the last four years, the Supreme Court has made such decisions 40. Unfortunately, the situation is that Parliament has unsolved 12 of the 40 decisions in which Parliament has been obliged to intervene. 12 Supreme Court decisions have not been passed! Of these 12 decisions, 6 concern the administration of your ministry. Why has your ministry not done anything to bring these issues before Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U33	Thank you. Compliance with the Supreme Court's constitutional review judgments is certainly a very important topic of the legal culture of society. One of the things I referred to in the previous question concerns farm charges relating to restrictions on immovable property in relation to utility networks and other facilities. This is a problem that I hope to resolve in the near future, I hope to present to the Government of the Republic my proposals on how to resolve this situation that the Supreme Court has declared to be unconstitutional. But I'm sure we're also analyzing the problems you've pointed out. The general legal culture of the state must ensure that the constitutional decisions of the Supreme Court are enforced, and it is certainly the role of Parliament to ensure that this monitoring is carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U34	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U35	Let us move on to the fourth question posed by the Külmiki Kübarsepp, member of the Riigikogu. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal, responds to this and the topic is the Boards of State Enterprises. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U36	Good manager! Good minister! In the recent past, attention has been drawn to the composition of the national company boards. The problem is that the members of the Riigikogu belong to them, because it interferes with the principle of separation of powers. The National Audit Office has pointed out that companies are unable to set targets and the Soviet capacity is low. A great deal of attention was also paid to the problem by the people's assembly. In the coalition agreement, you have provided for a review of the Soviet compositions in terms of independence and professionalism. It is now evident that no new movement has taken place. How far have you come in this regard, and what conclusions have we started to draw?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U37	Good questioner! Indeed, this is the direction in which we could move. How far are we now? In the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, an idea is being considered that would significantly reduce the number of Soviet members. Perhaps everything that could then be characterised by 'infrastructure' and 'transport' and 'transit' could be added together as one value chain. That's what we're analyzing right now, the idea's still in the analysis phase, it's not ready in any way. Maybe it'll turn out to be a bad idea, maybe a good idea. But this step would certainly create a greater sense of ownership in this sector. Perhaps it is possible to hire top managers and other top specialists. As we know, they are not easy to find. We still have a competition going on in several places, starting with the Road Administration and ending with the Deputy Secretary of State for Economic Development at the Ministry and the Railway Manager. These are the people we're looking for. As far as the people in the councils are concerned, it has been said that entrepreneurs are not fit for it, as if they have their own interests, even though they generally do this work alongside their main work, and the same is said about the members of the Riigikogu. In his time, I remember, Erki Raasuke did the work on which we are currently looking at this problem in Estonia. He admitted that it is not so much a problem for him to have members of the Riigikogu in the Board of State Enterprises, as it is the basis on which entrepreneurs are appointed. Well, the views are different. Two Chancellors of Justice have also disagreed on this issue. But, to sum up, we're trying to move in this direction, and I think that if this plan comes true, I expect that in the summer we'll be able to analyze it and in the autumn we could come out to the public, then probably the number of Soviet members will be significantly reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U38	The first question to be specified, Külliki Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U39	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The management of MKM is governed by the board of 19 public undertakings. The political parties make up 40% of these councils, of which more than 56% are members of the Reform Party, 31% are members, and only one person is a member of the IRL. The catastrophic situation is in the councils of Eesti Post, Saarte Liinid, Air Traffic Services and Estonian Lootsi, where 63 to 70% of the board's membership is represented by the party. When will you recall ministers Asa and Ligi from the Council? When will you call back the members of the Riigikogu and/or solve the violations of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U40	A specific answer to a specific question. Aas and Ligi have been recalled, not because they failed to do their job, but because ministers cannot be in such a council. As far as the Constitution is concerned, as I have already said, the Chancellors of Justice have disagreed on this issue. Personally, I think that members of the Riigikogu could perhaps be more appointed to councils through the Economic Committee. We have discussed in the coalition that this could be one mechanism. In summary, it may be good to know who represents whom and what when people are appointed to the board of state-owned enterprises. I recall that during the economic crisis, members of the Riigikogu were the only ones in many councils who understood that state-owned companies also have to pull together compositions in bonuses and salaries. Each coin has two sides.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U41	And now there's a matter registered on the spot. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U42	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister! As we have heard, more than half of the current political places in the councils of state enterprises are occupied by reform parties, about a third of the Social Democrats and only one representative belongs to the IRL. What's the matter? Why are you ignoring your coalition partner like that? Does the IRL lack the necessary economic competence, or what is the matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U43	I daresay the IRL doesn't lack economic competence. Perhaps there is no competence to review these lists in order to understand who is a member of which party.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U44	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U45	Let us move on to question five. It is presented by Tarmo Tamm, member of the Riigikogu. The question is addressed to the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, and the subject is the sources of cover. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U46	Thank you, manager. Minister of Finance! We know that the tax increases carried out by the government will take money out of the pockets of every citizen, and that the competitiveness of our companies will be reduced. However, does the government not want to see as a source of cover that it fails to do some economic stupidity and starts to run the country rationally? For example, why wasn't another place for the new super ministry building, and why was the current Ministry of Finance building not tried to be sold to the private sector? This would have freed the State from the costs of scrapping and would have paid for the plot, which would have been a very good source of cover. The private sector could have made this house warm. In my opinion, the state does not have a shortage of plots in Tallinn. Why was it not tried to sell it to the private sector, and why is the state demolishing this building itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U47	There were actually two questions. One is connected to the house and the other is connected to the sources of cover. When we're talking about the house, the decision about the house of the Ministry of Finance, or the four houses of the Ministry of Finance in the future, has been made earlier. On the basis of the information that has arrived on the Minister of Finance's desk, the overall aim is to prevent an increase in expenditure. This objective is pursued. It should be noted that, in addition to classical synergies, the removal of ministries creates a situation where the existing buildings of ministries can be realised if necessary. Not to mention possible energy savings and other synergies. As regards the sources of cover in general, it must be borne in mind that the various one-off revenues that the State could obtain cannot cover the running costs. It is certainly by its very nature a very clear world-view nuance, which, in my opinion, not only the finance ministers but also all governments must bear in mind. If we want to cover running costs on the basis of possible one-off revenues, this policy will not be sustainable in the long term. Similarly, running costs must not be covered on a continuous basis by means of loans. Long-term costs must be consistent with long-term revenues.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U48	First supplementary question, Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U49	Thank you. In my question, I did not question the insulation of houses and making them more sustainable at all. I asked why this building had to be built on the same site, why it was not possible to choose another plot. Architects also see this as a major problem. Why would you necessarily choose this plot? Why couldn't you have built this house somewhere else? After all, the old buildings of the ministries could have been sold and all the conditions laid down would have been met. Why wasn't the plot sold? For whom, and for what purpose, was such a decision made?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U50	Thank you. The current government, including the Minister of Finance, took its oath on 9 April and by that time the process was in progress. I believe that all the decisions that have been taken earlier, i.e. before 9 April, are clearly based on the interests of the state and the people. If we look at all the costs that will potentially arise in the future after the four ministries have been put together, as well as all the possible revenues, we will see that these decisions are intended to ensure the maximum effective use of taxpayers' money. Decisions on whether a house could be located in one place or another, on the spatial solution, on the number of square meters per employee, have been taken at an earlier stage and, quite certainly, there have been clear impact analyses prior to these decisions. Such decisions cannot be made on the basis of the prospect that the state will have to pay a lot more later. Such decisions can only be made if a clear synergistic positive effect is seen.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U51	And now there's a matter registered on the spot. Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U52	Minister, thank you very much. In the old building, Ado Eig's great pannoo went missing. I very much hope that you will use this so-called 1% law to build a new ministry building and that the new building will be a more dignified and prouder pannoo. But my question is actually about the reputation of Estonia as an e-state, which I hope will also depend on your behaviour or your ability. The point is that ATMs give us money first, and only after that they give us a card, and so many, I dare say, tens of thousands of people forget the card machine and become insolvent after that. This is particularly true of foreign tourists who are accustomed in their own countries, in other European countries, to get the card back first and then to get the money back. Would your hands be able to correct this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U53	Thank you. Minister, if you see any connection between the pannol and the sources of cover on the ATMs, please respond naturally. The subject is the sources of cover, but the decision is yours.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U54	Thank you. Regarding the pannoo, I really must say that the Minister of Finance is not actively taking part in the organisation of the architectural competition and will not follow its results later. There are other people for that. It is mainly not the Ministry of Finance that manages the whole process, but the RKAS. As far as banks and ATMs are concerned, we can come back to this issue on question 10. Then it can be dealt with in greater detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U55	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U56	Dear colleagues, please let's stick to the questions. The sixth question has been asked by Riigikogu member Arno Sild, which is answered by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal. The subject is bus traffic between Võru and Viljandi. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U57	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. When it comes to public transport, we are always talking about the main connection to the capital. The people of Võrumaa, however, have raised the question of restoring the direct connection between Võru and Viljandi. It is now possible to move between these two counties with a large circle and connecting in Tartu. Since Viljandi is an important cultural and economic centre, its connection to Võru is very important. Question: is it possible to restore bus traffic between Võru and Viljandi?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U58	Honourable questioner! In fact, this issue is a bit wrong for the addressee, because bus connections between counties are the exclusive competence of rural governments and the county governments are under the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, not the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. However, I will try to give constructive advice and say that either we or you yourself can contact specific rural governments on this issue. They then appreciate this need and turn to the Road Administration if necessary. Next, there are two options: the Road Administration calls on carriers to carry out this transport on commercial lines or the municipalities and county governments put their backs together there. These would be practical solutions in this situation, as far as I can give advice here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U59	The first question to be specified, Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U60	The question to be clarified: should not the state, however, take the initiative to resolve the regional problems itself? Otherwise, we must follow Jüri Manor's request that we move to Tallinn, and things are in order and problems are solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U61	I think a member of the Riigikogu will have the opportunity to take this initiative and the country government will have the same way. That is what these institutions are for. The state is very intent on subsidising domestic air traffic, passenger train traffic and bus traffic. We certainly do not think that everyone should move to Tallinn. On the contrary, as far as infrastructure is concerned, we are certainly working to ensure that connections are as good as possible and that the roads are as good as possible. This problem you raised, I sent to our roadmen. In general, I believe that the solution is still on the initiative of the county government and in cooperation with the Road Administration. But let me make one more point with regard to the previous question. I wasn't precise when I said'member''representative' is the right word I wanted to use.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U62	And now there's a matter registered on the spot. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U63	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! It is very nice that the country has organised bus traffic very well in some places. For example, there is excellent bus traffic between Tallinn and Haapsalu. But there is no train traffic between these two settlements. In the coalition agreement, you say that you are analysing the possibility of restoring train traffic on the route of the family. Have you already started this analysis and if not, when are you going to start?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U64	This analysis is in the immediate vicinity. New passenger trains have now come into use and the usability of Elron, or Estonian Liner passenger trains, and all other lights that affect the network are analysed. On the basis of this analysis, further decisions can be made, which also concern Haapsalu. I myself have been part of the Haapsalu passenger train recovery support group, and Lauri Luik has been aspiring me back in the day. I want to be optimistic, but of course we need to analyse properly what our options are. The positive experience is certainly that the new Elron trains that the government has acquired have clearly increased people's desire to navigate with this tool. So we're gonna have to keep looking at what our options are. Finally, you and I have exactly the same wallet here and in the government that contains the amount that the taxpayer is able to pay.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U65	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U66	Let us move on to the seventh question posed by Jüri Adams, Member of the Riigikogu. A member of the government responds to this in the role of Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu Prime Minister and the subject is the impact and consequences of the increase in fines. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U67	Minister, thank you very much. More broadly, I have a question of the ratio between the amounts of money received from the various penalties and the state budget, but we are now taking it more narrowly. The fine unit has remained virtually unchanged for about 13 years. At the beginning it was 60 kroons, 4 euros after the changeover. Now it has come to my attention that your government intends to raise it two and a half times, to 10 euros. I'm curious about what's right in this rumor, what's wrong. And another general philosophical question. Can you assure us that, in the event of a hypothetical situation where the behaviour of the people is such that no euro will be received from any fine in the coming year, there will be no impact on the balance of the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U68	Definitely! The aim of the state's penal policy cannot be to increase the revenue of the state. The aim of the state's penal policy can be to respect the rightful behaviour of people. However, as of 1 January 2015, the fine policy has begun to distinguish between fines imposed for misdemeanours and fines imposed in criminal proceedings. In particular, the financial penalties imposed in criminal proceedings have shifted to a person's income-based system and the minimum daily rate has been raised more than three times: from EUR 3.2 to EUR 10. The government will also review the level of fines for misdemeanours at the next stage. The Ministry of Justice intends to present proposals to this effect to Parliament in the autumn. It is clear that the financial penalty is one of the penalties that can be imposed by the defendant. For all penalties, including those imposed for misdemeanours, the extra-judicial judge must take into account the person's sensitivity to punishment, i.e. how the sentence affects the individual. We certainly intend to put forward a series of proposals to amend the fine policy on misdemeanours. At the same time, I would like to stress that a substantial amendment to the misdemeanour procedure has also entered into force since the end of the last month, that the defendant may also, in the event of minor offences, not start proceedings and limit himself to an oral warning.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U69	The first question to be specified, Jüri Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U70	I don't think I'm very clever. I did not understand your answer as to whether or not a high level of fines was planned. But the more precise question could be this: has the value of our money decreased 2.5 times in 14 years to justify a 2.5-fold increase in the fine rate?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U71	When it comes to whether the government's plan is in the context of an amendment to the general penal policy, as of 1 January, the minimum fine for criminal penalties is more than three times higher than the one applicable to misdemeanours, the answer is in the affirmative. The intention is to do this at a rate of 2.5 times the slope. The question was whether money has fallen in the past 14 years or whether people's average incomes have increased. If the minimum income is taken as a basis, yes, both the minimum income and the average wage have increased considerably over this period.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U72	Now, one issue registered on the spot. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U73	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have realised that, for example, driving with a loose seat belt could be fined by the new rates of EUR 300. We know that the average pension currently amounts to nearly 350 euros in Estonia. Does that seem proportionate to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U74	As I said, out-of-court practitioners must, both now and in the future, take into account the person's punitive sensitivity to the imposition of a specific fine. We certainly intend to make a number of changes to the policy of penalising misdemeanours, such as the application of financial penalties to minors. We have a proposal to waive fines for some of the misdemeanours. Furthermore, the abolition of the current minimum fine is under consideration. I would also like to stress that the legislator has provided for the ranges under which financial penalties are to be imposed. In addition, it is possible to impose other penalties in the case of a specific offence. The right thing is that the most registered misconduct in four months of this year has been the speeding of motor vehicle drivers. This is followed by a ride without a ticket or a document certifying the right to drive and, thirdly, by theft. These are the most common misdemeanors.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U75	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U76	Let's move on to question eight. The questioner is Mart Helme, member of the Riigikogu, corresponding to the member of the government Minister of Finance Sven Sester. The subject is the impact of the costs related to the immigration crisis on the Estonian budget. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U77	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In these minutes, it should be clear how much Estonia's quota for the admission of immigrants is proposed by the European Commission. My question is very simple and very specific. How much has the Ministry of Finance provided in the budget to receive immigrants and cover the costs associated with them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U78	Honourable questioner! In order to open this matter further, I consider it necessary to inform you that the cost assessment is based on the law on granting international protection to an alien and on the limits of the costs to be borne by the recipient of international protection when settling in the local government. In addition, the maximum prices of administrative contracts concluded between the Ministry of Social Affairs and AS Hoolekandeteenused have been taken into account. Specific housing costs, for example, depend, of course, on location, the size of the dwelling, the amount of rent and other such circumstances. These costs are covered by the state budget through the Ministry of Social Affairs. In 2016, the Ministry of Social Affairs has foreseen a cost of almost EUR 200 000, namely EUR 199411.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U79	First supplementary question, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U80	Thank you, Speaker! Thank you, Minister, for a very good answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U81	I'm sure we'll welcome the spy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U82	Deputy Speaker, I'm sorry! That is the additional question. Unfortunately, we have no doubt that if Member States swallow up the quota for immigrants, this issue will be on the agenda every year. Does the current government accept that we need to start allocating very significant amounts of money each year for the admission of immigrants? This is the other part of the question. A little bit of the impression that these local government expenditures are not state budget expenditure, as if local governments were getting money, I don't know, the Vanapagana hat.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U83	Good questioner! If the European Union and Estonia have adopted the view that one or the other quota is accepted, it is clear that the country must also take this into account when making the budget. Today, the Ministry of Social Affairs has planned, as I said, a cost of nearly EUR 200 000 by 2016. Should this cost increase, the state must also be prepared to do so and revisit its cost-benefits. At present, the four-year strategy provides for this expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U84	And now there's a matter registered on the spot. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U85	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Dear Minister, This year, EUR 199000 is intended to accommodate refugees here and cover their housing costs. Now the number of 1000 has gone through, plus the refugee who should be admitted to Estonia exceptionally. So we should at least ten times that amount, to several million euros. My question also concerns the refugee crisis in the Mediterranean. Can you tell the people of this country and the people of Estonia, or their voters, how much sum we now contribute to resolving the Mediterranean crisis? What is Estonia's contribution? Does this justify itself, and is it planned to increase it exceptionally?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U86	Good questioner! The country has not developed any further policies for the reception of refugees. As I mentioned earlier, the state has foreseen real expenditure from the state budget for next year. This amount is, I repeat, almost EUR 200000 and no other decision has been taken by the State. At the moment, there is no further information to suggest that this would have an impact on the balance of the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U87	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U88	Let us move on to question nine. The author of the question is Jaak Madison, member of the Riigikogu, and the answer is the Prime Minister of the Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu. The topic is the situation of the refugee centre in Vao village. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister of Justice! In its speeches, the Government of the Republic has consistently expressed the view that all decisions on the reception of refugees will be discussed with local residents, the local community. Having looked more closely at the situation in Vao village, where there are 85 refugees, who have been placed in the most proud and beautiful house in the village and live a life of envy that nearly half of our countrymen cannot afford, I was surprised to learn that none of them had been discussed about the reception of refugees or the possible increase in their numbers. I would like to ask for your position on this matter. On what grounds are local communities being negotiated in order to receive refugees and, if possible, distribute these people to the whole of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U90	As regards the subsistence of persons applying for international protection under the law, the law provides for their accommodation, provision of health services for them, promotion of their rights and obligations and a number of other activities necessary for minimum subsistence. When we talk about the European Commission's initiative, it is proposals on which Member States must shape their positions. The position of the Republic of Estonia so far has been that we support the right of Member States to resolve these issues voluntarily. Estonia has so far not supported the central quota system. Now, on the basis of the Council of Europe's position at the June ministerial meeting, it is possible to plan further steps and these must certainly be discussed with the local people. Specifically, as to whether there are current conflicts on the ground with 83 people in Vao's accommodation centre, which should be discussed separately, I say that, if the problems really do exist, the officials concerned must certainly do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U91	First supplementary question, Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U92	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Rather, the question is that when we talk about voluntary admission, it would be elementary if it were really voluntary. However, in view of Estonia's context, Estonia's economic situation and the demographic crisis here, we cannot even talk about voluntary reception of refugees. Here's the question: can the voters of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union be sure of their chosen party? Do the IRL ambassadors represent national-conservative views that they represent, at least on paper, ideally? Can voters hope, as do the seven of us from the EKRE Group, that they will represent Estonia's national interests on this issue as well and keep our backs straight?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U93	I am pleased that you, as the constituents of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, are asking these questions. But the voters of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union can always be sure of the Fatherland and Res Publica union, Mr Madison. This concern is completely irrelevant. In this Chamber, I can assure you that the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union will take decisions that will have a very long-term, very high impact both in the European and Estonian countries' perspective, based on our national interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U94	And now there's a matter registered on the spot. Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U95	Honourable Minister of Justice in his duties as Prime Minister. Please tell me whether the government has also discussed the possible extension of Vao shelter or the creation of new shelters elsewhere in Estonia. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U96	This issue has not been discussed in this government. Understandably, this issue requires fundamental political positions in the light of the European Commission's proposal. The political position of the government so far is known to you. Based on the decision of the European Union, which Estonia is one of the co-decidors, further practical issues can be resolved. I don't think there's any point in running ahead of events. As has been pointed out here, a few minutes ago, the European Commission came up with another initiative and now the Member States are shaping their positions. Unfortunately, we know that these views are based on quite different positions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U97	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U98	We move on to the next question, it is the tenth and is presented by Mark Soosaar, a member of the Riigikogu. Responds to the government member Minister of Finance Sven Sester, the subject is the international standard for ATMs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U99	Allow me to congratulate the President of the sitting. For the first time in this composition, we reached the tenth question. But my question sounded before. I ask the Minister whether Estonia is ready or, let's say, the Minister of Finance is prepared to act in such a way that our foreign guests do not leave our ATMs disappointed, because they sometimes take their bank card away. I've already explained why. In other countries, you will first be given a card back from a machine gun and then money, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U100	Honourable questioner! Standards exist for ATMs, or cash dispensing machines, but they do not deal with whether a card or cash should be issued first. In summary, these procedures are still up to each bank and the state has not intervened here in any way. The Association of Eesti Pank has been discussing this issue among themselves. Since it is a banking union, it has been discussed with its members, i.e. the banks. In these discussions with the Banking Association, the opinion has been reached that this is a more user-friendly situation than that of a specific ATM to be issued in advance and that a payment card will only be returned. They have justified their view that, in addition to the cash taken from the ATM, the customer may wish to carry out other operations, such as the printing of bank statements and any receipts. Besides cash withdrawals, you can do other operations with a machine gun. In this respect, the banks have so far considered that it would be better if they first received cash and then received a bank card.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U101	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Dear colleagues, thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U102	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Good afternoon. We will begin the session of the seventh working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I will report an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs Margus Tsahkna, and this is about what concerns us all sooner or later. We want to draw attention to the fact that our pension system favours, above all, those working with a higher wage. We believe that this should be changed so that one year of work for people receiving a minimum to an average salary starts to be equal to one year of pension. Yes, at the end of the previous term, Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Kütt changed the terms and renamed the annual coefficient as a pension insurance unit. But it did not change the substance of the matter, there are unfair differences in the size of pensions, and the stratification of pensioners is the same. Scissors between pensions have grown and the gap between the same system will increase in the future. In this way, we will see that people receiving a small salary, whether they are kindergarten teachers or nurses or music school teachers or anyone, will also receive a very small pension in the future, even though they are also doing important work. During the previous term in winter, Postimees also took up this topic very keenly, confirming that it was simply not possible to go on like this. Wage injustice must not be reflected in pensions. We also see here that there is no wish to discuss the issue of labour poverty within this body, and the reimbursements from the budget, which is favoured, will continue to favour small pensions and salaries. So we have a number of questions and a proposal for the Minister to solve this problem together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U104	There doesn't seem to be any more calls. I have adopted an inquiry on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings. Let's move on to the messages. Today, after the plenary session, the opening meeting of the Estonian-Czech parliamentary group is held in this Chamber, and the convener is Mailis Reps. We're looking forward to active participation. Let's do a sit-down check. 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U105	There is one clarification on today's agenda. In fact, during the first-reading debate on the first-reading debate on the draft law amending the Water Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Minister of Finance Sven Sester will make a presentation on behalf of the initiator. Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. The first item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U106	Honourable Riigikogu! You have received a draft law amending the Water Act prepared at the Ministry of the Environment, whose main aim is to fully transpose the Marine Strategy Framework Directive of the European Union by means of a legislative act at law level. This is a draft for the full transposition of the Directive resulting from infringement proceedings initiated by the European Commission. Although the provisions of the Directive are reflected in most of the documents approved by the Government of the Republic of Estonia "Estonia's Maritime Policy 2012 According to the bill, the law consists of two points. Point 1 specifies the definition of pollution in Section 2 (42) of the Water Act. In the current law, forms of harmful effects are given as a closed list, but the Directive requires that the list of harmful effects should be open. Therefore, only an indicative list is now provided. In point 2, two new sections of the chapter on the use and protection of the marine environment are added to the Water Act. First, § 349 'Marine Strategy', which provides for the drawing up of a marine strategy for the protection of the Estonian sea area and for achieving and maintaining good environmental status. The paragraph states that the Marine Strategy consists of five parts and provides for the updating of the Marine Strategy every six years. The Marine Strategy is organised by the Ministry of the Environment. The first four parts of the Marine Strategy shall be approved by the Minister responsible for the field by an administrative act. The plan of action shall be approved as part of the maritime policy implementation plan by the Government of the Republic. Paragraph 3410 "Application of exceptions to environmental targets' is added as the second new paragraph, which provides for the application of exemptions in situations where it has been established in the maritime area that, for certain reasons, environmental targets or good environmental status cannot be fully achieved. Possible cases can be further described in the action plan. For example, such a case may be oil spills caused by some cargo ships, which have been ensured by public authorities for timely and appropriate localisation or disposal, but despite this, oil has caused damage to the environment which impedes the achievement of the objectives set by means of the proposed measures. The application of the derogations does not exempt the implementation of emergency measures to achieve environmental targets in the Estonian maritime area. These legislative amendments do not impose new obligations on Estonia, but specify the obligations that we are already fulfilling. The funding required for the implementation of the Marine Strategy in the years 2016 to 2020 for the implementation of the monitoring programme and the established action plan shall be provided for in the budget of the Ministry of the Environment. Where additional amounts are to be provided for in the national budget, the costs necessary for the implementation of the Marine Strategy Framework Directive shall be agreed upon in the course of the preparation of the national budget strategy and the national budget. Dear Riigikogu, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U107	Thank you, Minister. You have at least one question. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The Marine Strategy shall be drawn up in cooperation with other countries of the European Union in order to ensure coherence and comparability of the elements of the Marine Strategy. That's what the bill says. What happens if we have completely contradictory, totally non-binding views with our neighbours, Finland and Sweden, on what is the maritime strategy? How are we going to link these views, how are we going to build this coherence? Can it not be that, because of different views, a marine strategy cannot be put together? Or does this provision have no role to play in this section?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U109	Each provision in each paragraph always plays a role. At present, this is a transposition of the Directive into European law and is applicable in all countries, including Estonia and Finland. The fundamental reason for these amendments is that Estonia has essentially transposed this directive, but it has not been fully applied as the European Union has foreseen. In summary, the Directive applies to all countries to the exact same extent and at the same level.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U110	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U111	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The question to you as Minister of Finance: will the adoption of the Water Act in the Riigikogu bring additional costs to the state budget and, if so, have you, as Minister of Finance, already foreseen these expenses in the state budget strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U112	With these legislative changes, Estonia does not assume new obligations, but specifies what we have already started to implement. So in this sense, this law does not affect the Estonian economy and we do not need to look at its financial impact separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U113	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U114	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! My question to you, too, in the context of this law, comes from the financial sector, because you certainly know it more than the environmental issues. In your presentation, you mentioned the six-year period of this strategy, as well as the other deadlines. One period was 2016 to 2020, which is four years. Do you think this six-year period is optimal? Should this not overlap with the overall budgetary period of the European Union? Do they have to be shifted or are they not shifted? What if I misunderstood that funding must somehow go hand in hand with the strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U115	A Member will never get the wrong idea. A Member shall have the right to understand exactly as he wishes. However, looking at the implementation of the maritime strategy, and especially the monitoring programme and the action plan, I think that the parties have agreed that the implementation period of the measures will be 2016 to 2020. If we look at the budgetary allocation of the European Union, we can see that it will also end by 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U116	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U117	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I understand I have to explain my first question. Suppose there is a situation similar to that of Nord Stream in its day. In the beginning of Sweden, for example, says that, oh, no, under no circumstances must it be allowed. It also gives us courage, so we refuse the Nord Stream project and lose all related budget incomes, jobs, servicing, the opportunity to control this gas pipeline, etc. We refuse, but then Finland and Sweden will be happy to take the job. If we come back to the marine strategy, this should mean that, in this very environmental protection issue, the main emphasis was on environmental protection at the time, and the countries had absolutely different views. How can a coherent marine strategy be drawn up if they are so different?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U118	Thank you. The marine strategy includes, in its nature, the whole of Estonia's maritime area. It aims to protect the sea and to achieve and maintain good environmental status. This is an essential objective of the marine strategy. The entire scheme of measures, or maritime policy, is approved as part of its implementation plan by the Government of the Republic, which will certainly follow the directives of the European Union, which are directly applicable in Estonia, on the one hand, but on the other hand, the interests of its country, unless they conflict with the European directives.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U119	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U120	Thank you, Mr Vice-Chairman. Mr. Minister! Here's the question. Why did the Ministry, as the initiator of the bill, not consider it necessary to include mechanisms that would direct Estonian pension fund money into the Estonian economy? As we know, the money of Estonian pension funds is actually helping to boost the European economy. [[Interjections. The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U121	Thank you. We have the next draft today on the amendment of the Law on Investment Funds and, when discussing this, we can see in more detail why one or the other point of this law is to be amended. The draft we are currently discussing and the subject of the Marine Strategy are not best matched.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U122	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U123	Thank you. Good waitress! Here's the question. I heard from the news yesterday that Russia is likely to stop importing Estonian canned fish and claims that they are quite life threatening. How do you estimate the health of the Estonian Sea and how is the health of fish living in the Estonian Sea? And what about the people who eat these fish?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U124	Honourable questioner! I'd like to keep my personal opinions on the health of fish to myself right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U125	Good Minister, thank you! No further questions. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Rein Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U126	Good manager! Honourable Riigikogu! The Environmental Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Water Act submitted by the Ministry of the Environment at its meetings on 11 and 12 May. At its meeting on 11 May, Marko Pomerants, Minister for the Environment, presented the facts of the amendment of the Water Act. He explained that by transposing the European Union Marine Strategy Framework Directive into Estonian law, it is necessary to supplement the Water Act in the interests of legal clarity. It would also provide a more clearly defined framework for action on marine policy. Most of the provisions of the EU Marine Strategy Framework Directive have been transposed in the development plan "Estonia's Maritime Policy 2012 A discussion took place during which the Minister for the Environment and the Head of the Legal Department of the Ministry of the Environment and the Adviser to the Marine Environment Department answered the questions. For example, the concept of pollution was asked what it is. The issues also concerned the significant environmental impact and putting the number of the Euro Directive into law and whether it is really necessary. The Minister of the Environment and other ministerial officials explained that the draft contains an open list of the definition of pollution. According to the Marine Strategy Framework Directive, the potential for adverse effects must be included in the law as an open list, so far in the Water Act as a closed list. In the draft, only one very important word is added in the text of § 2 42 of the Water Act to ensure its open list, for example, the word 'for example', which, if confirmed by lawyers, makes the closed list open. There was also the question of whether this is a universal concept or not when we are talking about pollution. The Minister explained that the concept of pollution contained in the draft amendment to the Water Act should cover all possible pollution incidents. At the same time, it should be added that, for example, in the General Part of the Environmental Code Act, pollution is synonymous with 'pollution', a significant adverse change in the quality of air, water or soil caused by pollution. At its meeting on 12 May, the Committee on the Environment decided, with one vote, to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the 23 plenary sessions of the Riigikogu by 26 May. a. It was also decided to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped, that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 a.m. on 29 May and that the rapporteur be appointed. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U127	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading could be concluded. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the draft 23 amendments. a 29 May at 10 a.m. The first reading is closed and the first item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U128	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Finance of the Riigikogu to speak to Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U129	Dear Parliament, I hereby give you an overview of the draft, which bears number 15. This is a draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds, which aims at simplifying the investment rules for pension funds in its nature. Of the assets of our pension funds, relatively little has been invested directly in the local economy, especially compared to other countries. About 5.4% of the assets of pension funds have been invested in Estonian companies. This indicator includes investments in shares and bonds and real estate, excluding deposits. In other EU countries, the share of domestic investment in the pension fund portfolio is significantly higher. At international level, pension fund funds are considered to be one of the most important sources of long-term local capital. It has been complained that the assets of Estonian pension funds are too little invested in local companies. One reason for this may be the lack of appropriate instruments on the ground. The second is the restrictions set out in the Code. Under the current rules, pension fund assets must be invested in the most liquid instruments possible. In particular, liquid instruments refer to deposits of credit institutions, securities quoted on the stock exchange and equity and bond funds. A small number of companies have listed securities on the Tallinn Stock Exchange. Thus, there is indeed little liquid local investment opportunities. The draft amends the existing arrangements so that the assets of pension funds can be more placed in less liquid instruments, in particular in private equity and bonds. Such investments are longer-term, which may lead to higher risks, but also higher returns. The adoption of the draft act as a law will, in principle, lead to five major changes. First, the assets of pension funds can be placed in 30% of the stock exchange's unlisted shares and bonds instead of 10%. Secondly, pension fund assets can be invested more in various infrastructure projects, such as the road network, electricity projects, waste management, water supply, as well as school and hospital facilities. According to the practice of the rest of the world, pension funds have started to invest more and more in these kinds of projects. Thirdly, the assets of pension funds cannot currently be invested in precious metals or in securities relating to precious metals. In future, up to 5% of the assets of pension funds may be invested in gold and other precious metals. This is primarily an alternative investment opportunity in unstable times. Fourthly, pension funds will be allowed to acquire control shares in companies in the future. It also gives the pension fund manager the opportunity to decide who manages the specific company in which the pension fund's assets have been invested. Fifthly, pension fund assets are also allowed to invest in large real estate development projects. At present, the assets of pension funds in the second and third pillars total EUR 2.3 billion. By 2030 it will already be EUR 13 billion. This bill will not force pension funds to invest more in Estonia, but it will expand the possibilities of investing pension funds in local companies. It can be expected that investments in domestic assets will increase, but it is important to stress that maximising pension income is essential for those who collect pension money due to increased returns on pension funds. I believe that the amendments to the draft will also contribute to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U130	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, On what basis or on what basis did the decision have to be taken to allow only up to 5% of investments in precious metals or related funds? What do you rely on, like, what kind of data, statistics or forecasts?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U132	Thank you. At present, it is not possible to invest at all in precious metals or related securities. But you always have to look at the risk principles. Similarly, it may be asked, on the basis of which, instead of the adoption of the law, a 30% increase may be made in holdings not listed on the stock exchange. This is based on the principle that, on the whole, pension funds would not be interested in taking risks that could cause the assets of people who have invested in the fund at some point in time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U133	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U134	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This bill allows for more pension fund money to be invested in Estonian companies. To what extent is it possible to assess the expectation of Estonian companies or the need for pension funds to invest in them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U135	Thank you. In itself, a change of law does not force, as I said, any investment decision. Rather, it provides a wider range of opportunities for making one or the other investment decision. According to current information, the executive body, at least during the procedure of the draft, has received signals from pension funds and also from business organisations that they are interested in the wider possibilities of pension funds to invest in the Estonian economy. Whether they will make use of these opportunities is a separate question. This is, of course, ultimately for fund managers to decide how they manage the money of a particular pension fund and what investment decisions they make.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U136	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U137	Thank you, Honourable President-in-Office. Honourable Minister! You are very simply giving pension funds the opportunity to use money more widely. You used the words 'higher-risk businesses' and 'productive', but you didn't use the word'responsibility'. Who is responsible if the investment is wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U138	Thank you, that is a very good question! And in this regard, I would like to draw attention to the same measures that we talked about earlier. The question is whether, for example, it should be possible to increase participations by more than 30% or, for example, to increase investment interests in precious metals even more than 5% in securities. Decisions can still be made always by the pension fund manager in accordance with internal directives and internal agreements and normative rules, which are also coordinated with the Financial Supervision Authority. However, providing opportunities does not always involve the automatic need for you to start to own one or the other enterprise and invest in one or the other enterprise. The odds are what they're giving us today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U139	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U140	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This is a very important, very serious issue, especially in the light of the fact that yesterday the Chairman of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority reported to us that the interest of pension funds in investing in Estonia has diminished. My question is this, which is not so much about this point, I ask more generally: does the government have any strategy or plan, apart from today's legislative amendment, to take real steps to regulate the area? What steps could be taken to ensure that Estonian pension funds invest more in Estonian companies and Estonian securities?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U141	Good questioner! This bill reflects the government's vision of things. We very clearly expect that if we expand the possibilities of pension funds in Estonia to invest using the measures listed, this will involve the allocation of additional funds to the Estonian market. Please note: if pension funds see a greater attractiveness for investing in Estonia, this is one measure in order for the Estonian economy to grow, which is definitely one of the goals of this government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U142	Ivi Eenmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! In the Nordic countries, especially Sweden and Denmark, so-called "mortgage pensions" are very popular. My question to you is: has the Estonian Ministry of Finance discussed this issue with the Ministry of Social Affairs or should we also discuss it? Such a pension would enable current and future pensioners to increase their daily incomes by guaranteeing their existing assets.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U144	Thank you. In dealing with this particular draft, we have not taken any further discussion. The current agenda is specifically to expand investment opportunities for pension funds' assets. All other topics, how the people of Estonia can invest their personal property better or take other decisions concerning it, need to be treated separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U145	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U146	Thank you, Honourable President-in-Office. Honourable Minister! With this draft, you will give investment funds an extended opportunity to take the most risky but perhaps more productive decisions. You used the terms 'risk' and 'productive', but you didn't tell me who was responsible for a bad investment?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U147	Thank you. Rights and obligations go hand in hand. If you have the right to make investment decisions, there is always an obligation and responsibility. They always go hand in hand. It is clear that, if we are to expand the use of the investment portfolio, we must always, as legislators, bear in mind that, for example, by allowing funds to invest up to 30% of their assets in non-listed shares instead of 10%, this right entails both higher risk and possible higher return. However, the decisions to be taken are certainly the decisions of the fund manager, which it can take on the basis of various internal documents. They have also been agreed with the Financial Supervision Authority. Today, it can be said that once we have expanded the possibilities for pension funds to invest in various additional measures, the fund manager must understand the risks it is taking when investing in one measure or another, including, for example, securities covered with precious metals. It was not possible to do this in the past, and now there are up to 5% of the assets. The fund manager must assess these risks and be guided by the policies set out in the internal documents, whether conservative or more aggressive.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U148	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U149	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Does this draft allow pension funds to invest in cooperative banks and, if not, for what reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U150	Thank you. We have identified all those options that will be further developed. I have listed them, starting with unlisted stock exchange stocks and ending with precious metals, and there are also infrastructure projects between them. This is a very clear list of what pension fund investment opportunities are currently expanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U151	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Let me ask you a very simple question. What are the obligations and guarantees assumed by the State in this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U153	Thank you. This bill mainly regulates Estonian pension funds and the state does not take additional guarantees related to potential investments in pension funds or any measure. The state provides regulatoryly clear legislative frameworks on how pension funds can invest.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U154	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, One questioner has already asked how the State is responsible for the investments that have proved to be bad. You rightly said that rights also involve obligations. It is known that those born in 1983 or later will have a mandatory second pension pillar, where the state will add 4% of their monthly gross wage when playing as a generous fairy, actually taking it at the expense of social tax. The State has exercised its right to impose by law on the contractor, that is, on the taxpayer, an obligation to invest in a safe place by choosing between certain choices. And no one's responsible. As we know, the financial awareness of the Estonian people is not very high, but we have given them such an obligation. Shouldn't people in a free society and democratic civilisation have the freedom to choose where they spend their lives?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U156	Thank you. A person has the right to choose the specific funds to invest in. I would point out that since the creation of the second pillar, the real productivity of these funds has been positive. In 2014, for example, the average nominal yield was 5.1%. And always the citizen has the right and the possibility to choose a specific management company and pension fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U157	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! These funds of all kinds that operate on the financial markets must, of course, be regulated, set some kind of framework for them. Between these frameworks, this market works. Surely there are wise administrators who try to make good decisions. But I will repeat this question, which has already sounded in this Chamber. Bad decisions are also definitely made, and not guilty at all, just in the financial markets, anything can happen. I understand that the administrators are trying their best, but I understand that if someone is playing on the financial market, he will be responsible if he loses his money. He's gonna lose his pants. But in this case, it is our pensioners' money that is being invested here and there and there are still bad decisions. If a bad decision has been made on the use of pensioners' money, who is specifically responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U159	Thank you. I would even expand it and say that it is not the money of current pensioners, but the money of all people who invest in pension funds. I think it's both your money and mine, but we've invested in the second pillar. This is not just about pensioners, but about a lot more people. By the way, I think it is necessary to say here that the number of members of the mandatory pension fund has reached 664522 by 2014. Compared to last year, there have been just over 14,000 more people. I'm saying it would be known how many have joined the pension funds. The situation is that the second pillar has five management companies and 20 pension funds under the five management companies. It is up to a person to decide which fund manager he or she will go to, and depending on which pension fund he or she will take, it is possible to choose pension funds with different levels of risk. It is also a conscious choice for a person to take a conservative fund that is less productive but more modest or riskier. It's a man's decision. Of course, he can first examine the specific management company and its investment strategy. All these opportunities are available to the residents of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U160	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U161	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Cooperative banking is a very common form of banking in the world, and it is also developing in Estonia. I didn't get an answer to my last question. Why can't pension funds invest in cooperative banks in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U162	Thank you. You can propose amendments as a member of the Riigikogu during this draft procedure and then you can also discuss whether it makes sense to expand investment opportunities by adding cooperative banking to the list. At present, the government's vision of expanding the investment opportunities of pension funds has been recorded as a list of what is on your tables.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U163	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U164	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Of course, it is the money of pensioners, but, as you rightly mentioned, it is also the money of future pensioners. But I guess we'll all be pensioners in the future if God gives us years of life. And yet I repeat my question. Playing in financial markets can always lead to the possibility of money being lost, because administrators are also people and, as we know, mistakes are humane. It is the money of our future pensioners; it is not just some kind of voluntary investment here or there or playing with money. There are indeed more conservative and aggressive pension funds, but something can happen to any of them. If so, who will bear the responsibility and who will compensate specifically?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U165	Thank you. You've asked me three times from different angles, and I've answered you three times. The one who takes the decision, it's also responsible. It is the pension fund manager who has taken the decisions. Before that, a person has taken a decision to invest in one pension fund or another, knowing the level of risk that one or the other fund carries according to the degree of aggression of the fund, which is coordinated. There must certainly not be a situation where the fund, which has chosen a prudent strategy not to invest in aggressive stock markets and has also confirmed it to its pensioners, operates differently. After all, the Financial Supervision Authority monitors that the investments of the fund manager correspond to what is stated in its prospectuses.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U166	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, There are other systems in the world than those currently implemented by Estonia. In Singapore, for example, every citizen has a fund that receives his or her pension provision on the income he or she earns. And a citizen can use this money as he sees fit, either to improve health or to raise money by the time he retires. And then he can use it freely. It's a theoretical question. How do you view the idea that each person should be able to decide for himself how to invest his or her money? It wouldn't go through the administrator, would it go directly? For example, if I want to buy Tallink stock, I'll buy Tallink stock, and I hope in 50 years I'll have a good sum. But if it's not, it's my fault. What do you think of this opportunity to let people decide what to do with their money?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U168	Thank you. That is a good question and I think that a longer philosophical debate on this is welcome. Well, there are always pros and cons when a person makes his own personal decisions. Do you want to give such an opportunity? I mean, there's still a chance. If a person wants to invest in shares in one company or another, in the case of shares, the risks are usually higher than in the case of bonds and are generally expected to be higher than in the case of bonds, this option exists. With regard to the current pension, especially the second pillar, a country that transfers part of taxpayers' money to this fund will certainly play an important role there. There are different systems in the world and there are certainly different shortcomings in the different systems, as well as the good ones. If there were the best system, it would be the best system in the world. This is the path in Estonia where, on the one hand, the worker contributes to the second pillar and, on the other hand, the state, and at the same time, the person also has the opportunity to make whatever other decisions affecting his or her future pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U169	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U170	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Did I understand correctly from your answer that only the future pensioner, a young woman or a young man, who is now obliged to choose a progressive or conservative fund is responsible for bad decisions? Is he the one who is ultimately responsible for the consequences of these decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U171	Thank you. The question is what we mean by responsibility. When it comes to judgment, man is always free. If a person wants to take a decision to invest his or her money in a highly aggressive, highly risky project, whether by investing directly or through a pension fund, knowing that the pension fund only invests the assets in shares, then he or she will certainly take an informed risk of requiring higher returns. However, it must take into account that its assets may be reduced as a result of that decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U172	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U173	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Mr. Minister! This has been about people's awareness and responsibility. I have such a simple question. Do you know which fund has your own pension money and how much productivity this fund had last year?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U174	Thank you. Yeah, I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U175	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U176	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. When you started defending your bill, you said that you would make these changes so that more money would enter the Estonian economy. You claim that when a young person, a young woman, is very inexperienced and thinks that she earns more money for retirement than chooses a more aggressive fund and that money is placed in the Estonian economy, but that person loses his money because the fund manager makes bad decisions, that young woman is still responsible. What's the logic of this law anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U177	Thank you. You started your question with the words 'young man, young woman', you didn't say 'young man'. However, decisions concerning the expected risks and, consequently, the potential return are still up to the human being. If a person feels that he does not want to take the risk that may result in the loss of his property, then there is an opportunity. As I said, there are 20 pension funds under five management companies and there are very conservative funds among them, the main aim of which is to preserve assets and, as an additional objective, to have a low yield through bonds, but still a profitability. It is a person's own decision which particular pension fund he uses to make his pension investments.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U178	Minister, we cannot stop dealing with this issue because there is at least one more question. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U179	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Since you have spoken so confidently today about how a person makes his own free choices, I ask you: as a minister of finance, are you convinced that even if there is a part of the business or other curriculum that introduces investment funds inside, all young people, when they go to the bank and they are given these schedules and explained to them by many foreign words, will understand what they are told?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U180	Thank you, honourable Member. That's a very good question. The state has worked to improve its financial literacy. I believe that, in cooperation with the Banking Association, I myself, as Minister of Finance, have talked with the management of the Estonian Banking Association to further enhance the synergy between the state and the banking union, which is improving people's financial literacy. It's very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U181	Minister, thank you now. No further questions. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to anyone other than Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Monetary Committee!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U182	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee of the Riigikogu discussed draft Act No 15 amending the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Government of the Republic in preparation for the first reading at its meeting on 11 May. At its meeting on 25 May, the Commission also took another procedural decision. Mr Thomas Honourable, Head of the Financial Markets Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Mr Tõnu Lillelaid, Chief Specialist of the Insurance Policy Department, who presented this draft to the members of the Commission, also participated in the Commission's discussion. As has been said, the draft aims to make changes to the Investment Funds Act, in particular concerning investment rules for pension funds. It was pointed out that the reason for the relatively low level of investment in pension funds in Estonia is also the lack of appropriate instruments. As has been said, the draft allows pension fund assets to be invested more in non-listed securities, various infrastructure projects and also in real estate. In addition, there is an opportunity to invest pension fund assets in precious metals and related securities. That's all the Minister's been talking about. For my part, I would like to take stock of the debate we had in the Commission and of the questions raised by the Members of the Commission. It was a question of whether these restrictions, where and how much the pension fund can invest, stem from European Union law or can be imposed in Estonia. The answer was that European Union law in this way does not restrict investment in pension fund assets. One sentence of the explanatory memorandum was asked to explain that pension funds can, if necessary, control the company, including directing its activities. The response of the initiator's representative was that this use of the word, the emphasis may not be the best. The point is that the abolition of restrictions on holding holdings will allow the fund to better control its assets. The members of the committee also asked whether there was an impact assessment of how much the investments of funds in Estonian objects would increase as a result of the legislative amendment. The Ministry said it was difficult to predict, but it could offer an increase in direct investment up to 10%. It also asked where the assets of pension funds were invested by asset class and geographical area. The initiator of the draft act replied that these reviews were available to the Ministry and that the funds would also disclose their data on a regular basis. To a large extent, these investments have gone outside Estonia, especially to foreign equity funds. The share funds of Ireland, Luxembourg and Sweden, as well as those of the US and many other countries, have a higher share. So investments are scattered around the world. There was a question of what is happening to the yield of our pension funds. The reputation of the funds is not very good and the return is not good enough; people have been disappointed by this kind of subjective opinion. Indeed, from an investor's point of view, return is fundamental, but, as has already emerged here in the previous discussion, it is of course also important to hedge risks. It is important that the money placed in the fund at least be preserved and maybe increased. The question was also whether the fund could raise gold and what are the precious metals that qualify as precious metals for the purposes of the bill. The answer was that there are certain metals: gold, silver, and platinum. But basically, investment in precious metals securities is still practiced. That was my review of the Commission's debate. The Commission also took the following decisions: to appoint a rapporteur here, i.e. I; to propose that the draft be put on the agenda by 27 May (the proposal was consensual) and to set the deadline for the amendments at 3 June at 3 p.m. (the decision was also consensual). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U183	Thank you. You have at least one question. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U184	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Of course, it is a very good draft in that it broadens investment opportunities for investment funds. However, the Minister for Finance did not consistently want to answer very many questions directly. It is precisely the same problem that, if the investment of pension funds is lost and people's money is lost there, then managers will still receive their salaries and all other expenditure relating to accounts will be covered, but the funds themselves will be lost. My question is, do you think a man has lost that money? I don't see how the investment manager's gonna make it up to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U185	Thank you. That's a good question. That's why the state's putting these rules in place. What's this bill doing? It expands investment opportunities and, above all, to place money more in the assets registered in Estonia. And the state has made restrictions, for example, one issue cannot be placed more than 5% of the fund's assets. This restriction shall remain in force. There are also restrictions that fund investments should be well diversified across a wide range of asset classes. If there is a risk in one place, fortunately, the resources are scattered. The probability that all risks will materialise at the same time is low. However, it is from this that the pension fund cannot legally invest in one asset class or one issuer. That's why these are restrictions. Secondly, pension funds are subject to supervision by the Financial Supervision Authority. The Financial Supervision Authority has its own supervisory tools. They see that funds are liquid, that capital adequacy is appropriate and that fund managers that manage everything meet certain requirements. This is another institution that monitors. Of course, there is a risk to the human being himself. There are funds that are rather low-risk and which invest mainly in high-rated bonds and deposits, for example, but there is also a lower rate of return and this asset will grow less over time. A person who is willing to take more risks chooses a more aggressive strategy fund that invests in both quoted and unquoted shares. In that case, a person knowingly takes a greater risk for greater productivity. It's his own risk, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U186	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U187	Thank you. Good colleague! At the beginning of the year, there was talk in this Chamber about how we use pension funds. It was then said that there were no projects that clearly served the public interest. How do you think? We are now increasing the percentage of investment for the pension fund in the Ministry, but are we also extending the list of projects where these funds can be used?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U188	This bill does not add to these new instruments. Here was the question of mortgage bonds. This bill does not create new instruments for investing. However, the indirect impact of the draft may exist in the sense that if there is more demand due to additional investments in pension funds, the supply side will also recover. Companies with an interest or need, for example, to issue bonds can do so more boldly or more, as demand for pension funds increases. In this way, a legislative amendment may have an impact on companies managing infrastructure objects and their investments.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U189	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Please, all representatives of the political groups have the opportunity to open negotiations. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Aivar Sõerdi, representative of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, to the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U190	In recent years, the volume of mandatory pension funds' assets has grown rapidly. This increase was over 400 million last year, 24% as a percentage. These funds are currently in the order of EUR 2.3 billion and are expected to grow to EUR 3 billion by 2030. This is a very large increase, both in percentage and nominal terms. At the same time, the investments of these funds in the Estonian economy have decreased. Yesterday, according to the annual report of the Financial Supervision Authority on the agenda of the sitting of the Riigikogu, their share decreased from 26% to 22%, nor is it direct investment in Estonian securities, but mainly fixed-term deposits or simply money on bank accounts. Direct investment in Estonian securities is in the order of 6% of the assets of pension funds. Based on the experience of other countries, investments in the local market could amount to as much as 50 to 60%. If we don't do something, we'll actually have these volumes shrink. At the same time, it is known that pension fund funds are an important source of long-term capital. The investment of pension funds in the local capital market would certainly boost the market here as well. The larger the local capital market, the greater the choice of investment alternatives, especially for start-ups and fast-growing companies. And it is clear that access to capital increases employment, productivity and innovation. The draft that we are dealing with should change this situation. It simplifies the investment rules for pension funds, creates a wider opportunity to invest pension fund assets in unlisted securities, real estate, infrastructure objects. Pension funds will be able to acquire control participations. At the same time, we can say that better access to capital will increase investment by companies and through their employment in the economy as a whole. In particular, a reduction in the share of bank-driven financing and an increase in the share of alternative investment sources will contribute to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The entry into force of the draft law does not mean that investments in Estonian assets by pension funds will start to grow immediately and quickly. The main problem remains that we do not have sufficient resources to invest. If, according to the drafters, direct investment in Estonian assets could increase from the current 6% level in the coming years to 10%, the target would be 20% to 30%. However, other measures are, of course, needed to achieve this objective, such as the creation of new investment instruments. The provision of eligible assets, the activity of market participants and the general revival of the Estonian securities market would also be facilitated by the placing on the stock exchange of minority shares of a state-owned company. The impact on the stock exchange would be even greater, the larger and more attractive the company will be able to bring the state to the stock market. In any case, the Reform Party Group supports the adoption of this draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-27_U191	Thank you. Would the other groups like to speak? There's no call. I'm closing the negotiations. The position of the commission is clear and unambiguous: to conclude the first reading. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the draft 15 amendments. a 3 June at 3 p.m. The first reading is closed and the second item is also closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 3.07 p.m.
