ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question time begins. Checking for presence. 52 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present. The government members participating in Question Time are Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, who is currently and also here in the role of Prime Minister, Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, and Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Rural Affairs. Last day, nine members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask the question, so I will give you one additional question from the floor for each topic. Let me remind you that there is one minute to ask the question, two minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U2	The first question is asked by Kadri Simson, Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, in the role of Prime Minister. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U3	Thank you. Minister Ossinovski! Under the coalition agreement concluded in spring, the minimum wage should increase to 45% of Estonia's average wage over four years. At the moment, the minimum wage is only 36% of the average wage, so the coalition has set itself the goal that the minimum wage will rise faster than the average wage increase. Can you explain with which minimum wage calculation the state budget for next year has been drawn up, which is already agreed by the government? Is this the EUR 470 proposed by the trade unions, EUR 417 offered by employers, or has the government used a third amount as a basis for the forecast? Are you satisfied with that amount? Is this a worthwhile salary for people who work full-time, or 40 hours a week?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U4	Thank you. Of course, coping with low-paid people in general, including raising the minimum wage, is a priority for the government. When talking about managing low-wage earners, it is certainly not limited to the subject of a minimum wage. There are other measures that can improve social coping. The government has agreed that next year the limit of living will rise from EUR 90 to EUR 130 and that a low-paid tax refund scheme will also enter into force, which will certainly also help people with lower incomes to cope. Next year, tax-free income will also increase from EUR 154 to EUR 170 per month. The minimum wage is certainly an important component of the wider context. Indeed, the government has agreed that the state will negotiate a minimum wage more actively with social partners, i.e. employers and employees. It is certainly not just a question of administratively raising the minimum wage, but of resolving the competitiveness problems that businesses have, including improving retraining and further training in those sectors where it is necessary. In order to reach 45% of the average, the minimum wage should increase by at least 10% per year in subsequent years. That would, in my opinion, be a rather reasonable pace of growth. As far as negotiations between trade unions and employers are concerned, as you know, they are currently in progress, rather than having reached an agreement yet, so the government has not set a minimum wage. But we are actively keeping an eye on the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U5	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U6	Thank you. Minister Ossinovski! I really know that trade unions and employers have not been able to make an agreement between themselves, but unfortunately there are quite a number of sources of expenditure in the state budget that depend on the amount of the minimum wage. Thus, the government must have its own version of the work on the basis of which the state budget has been put together and who else could know this amount if not you. Your party promised that in four years you would raise the minimum wage to 800 euros. Therefore, the appropriate rate of increase of EUR 100 per year should be for you. Not even the trade unions are asking that much right now. Would you also clarify what this government control number is and what the government can do to ensure that trade unions and employers can be agreed in a way that is acceptable to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U7	Thank you. Indeed, the government has reached an agreement in principle on the state budget when dealing with additional requests from different ministries, but there are still many loose ends and the government has not approved the state budget today. This is expected to happen on Monday of next week before the budget is transferred to the Riigikogu. Of course, as far as the minimum wage is concerned, the agreement between employers and employees can also be reflected in the state budget, which is clearly the view of the government. But we can't get ahead of events, or we'll have to wait for the parties to agree. I only talked about this yesterday with the national conciliator and discussions with other parties have taken place, with my participation as well as with my predecessor. The overall stance is that over the next year, the state could discuss minimum wage issues more actively and more complexly with social partners, also talking about sectors in which competitiveness issues are unresolved and where it can help with further training, for example. This format is being established by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Government Committee will start work presumably in November if we start dealing with the subject of the negotiations on the minimum wage in the long term. As for next year, the process really depends on the national mediator. As Minister of Health and Labour, I have been actively keeping an eye on this issue. Although it seems to me that an agreement can still be reached, and once it has been achieved, the state will certainly take into account the amount of the minimum wage in the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U8	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U9	Thank you. Mr. Minister! The priority of the Centre Party is to raise the minimum wage, too, and in spring we had a draft on this subject already in the Committee on Social Affairs when there was a public hearing. Unfortunately, neither the trade unions nor the Social Democrats supported progress towards a higher minimum wage step by step. Pensions also depend on the minimum wage and salary at all. The question is that pensions are constantly changing, pensioners are stratifying, just as there is stratification in other systems. How do you intend to keep an eye on the pension system so that there will not be so much stratification in the future based on pay? We know that our pensions are still many times lower than those of Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U10	Raising the minimum wage is certainly an important issue for both social democrats and all government partners at all. If we look a little bit at history, then indeed, compared to other European countries, the minimum wage in Estonia is low. But I guess that reflects our welfare level among the countries of the European Union in general. However, if we compare ourselves with other countries, in the last three years the minimum wage in Estonia has increased by about 10% a year. If it was EUR 290 in 2012, it will be EUR 390 this year, so a clear improvement has been made, the minimum wage has actually increased significantly faster than the average wage. This does not mean that the problem of managing low-paid workers is no longer present. As I said, there are plans to take a number of measures to move forward with a faster increase in the minimum wage. But let us admit that the issue cannot be solved simply administratively, judging tomorrow that the minimum wage is EUR 1000 and so we will become twice as rich as a society. It's a slightly longer-term process. We really need to look at the structure of the economy. In some sectors, competitiveness is low and higher wages are difficult to pay. I believe that it is possible to increase the minimum wage more quickly, but this certainly also requires a more active national labour market policy, a more active policy of education, retraining and further training. This direction has been agreed by the government that, as a more active party, the country will be taking part in these negotiations in the government committee that I was talking about. However, pension inequality is a broader issue of the pension system, which has been discussed at length. It is generally the case that those who have paid more of the pension part of the social tax receive some higher pension. At the same time, we also have an equal share of solidarity in pension insurance.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U11	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U12	The next question is asked by Krista Aru, Minister for the Environment Marko Pomerants. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Raising the population's environmental awareness is one of the areas of activity and tasks of your ministry. You are also the Chairman of the Environmental Investment Centre Board. Therefore, you are one of those people whose choices, decisions and preferences still depend quite much on how much and what kind of environmental education we can spread among a wide range of people. My question to you is about Horizon magazine. Since 2001, the Environmental Investment Centre has financed the issue of Horizon magazine. In June of this year, it was decided that it would no longer be financed from 2016. Why such a decision? Are you financing it now through the Ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U14	Thanks for the question! The question is very relevant. Indeed, raising environmental awareness is one of the fields of activity of the Ministry of the Environment, including the Minister of the Environment. We have many institutions for this, and through them we are working to raise the environmental awareness of tens of thousands of people a year, from birth to death. Now, on a specific question. It is an NGO Nature Magazine, which issues a lot of natural journals. The Estonian Forest and Estonian Nature are known to us from before the war; their trademarks are also owned by the Ministry of the Environment. Then there's the nature friend, the Horizon, and there's the memoirs. The reason for this discussion at the Ministry of the Environment was that NGO Nature magazine should adjust its activities, the fact that almost half of the total funding for the KIK environmental awareness programme has so far gone to NGO Nature magazine. This money is not very low, about EUR 588000 per year. Other activities related to environmental awareness have then received the rest of the money. This has just been disproportionate and I therefore think it was timely to announce that this cannot go on in 2016. I know that the NGO is looking for partners who would be willing to contribute to Horizon's extradition. According to my information, there are very many people today who would actually be willing to put more money in it, if not to say that there is no one like that at all. So we have to face the truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U15	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The next year, 50 years will come true from the start of this magazine, he has been educating us for half a century, cultivating generations, giving us a wider interest in the environment, mineral resources, and all such things. From your answer, I realized that, in fact, yours does not offer any active solution to this magazine. The amount they are asking for is EUR 100000 for a whole year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U17	Thanks! A change, as you say. But as I said, NGO Nature magazine will certainly finance half of this EUR 588000 next year, which is a significant amount. There's nothing to do. Sometimes you have to keep your mouth shut. You're a journalistic conspiracy. If you look at what's going on in the nature magazine market, you'll see a lot of similar products there. Because Marek Strandberg has become the editor-in-chief, you will no longer find articles in technology as such, but it has become a climate magazine. This is not a criticism, it is an example of fact. It's very nice to have a KIK. It's easy to write about nature, journals can reflect it, but our interest should be that the broadest possible circles can participate in nature awareness and nature education. The only way to do this is not the press; there are still a whole lot of products on the market. That's the way it is sometimes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U18	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U19	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. In order to be part of Estonia's wonderful nature, it should also be possible to see it. In the moor of Männikjärv, one of the most beautiful moors, there is a view tower and a table road between the foreheads that goes there. At least for the last three years, there's been some bullshit shit going on there. Nine tables need fixing to get to the tower. This work has been designed. My voter sent a letter yesterday and asked me how long this shit was gonna last. For several years, RMK has not been able to repair the table road and the tower. Not only residents of Estonia, but also foreigners who often go there cannot simply climb into this tower of view. Is this normal and when will it be all right?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U20	Thanks! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! If you had explained this question a little earlier, I could have given a concrete answer right now. I can give you that answer, but not from this speaker. RMK is really working on the repair and construction of many hiking trails and observation towers every day, so they certainly have a major role to play. Like I said, I'm gonna figure out why this nine-table shift is so awkward, so I can enlighten you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U22	The next question is from Jaak Madison to the Minister for Health and Labour in charge of Prime Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski. Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U23	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, As we know, one of the most burning issues of the past six months has been immigration and migratory pressure through southern Europe, which has also led Germany to exert very strong pressure on the introduction of quotas. Yesterday, our Minister of the Interior issued a draft at an extraordinary meeting in Brussels that Estonia accepts 550 immigrants. So this number has increased from 150 to 550 in two months. The coalition is known to be made up of three very different parties, all of whom have a very different view of the world and ideology. I believe that we in this Chamber, as well as your constituents, are interested in how tense the government has been in the debates about the admission of immigrants. How many immigrants would the Social Democratic Party be willing to accept, given that their maintenance costs Estonian taxpayers' money and there are 40,000 children in Estonia who go to bed on an empty stomach?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U24	Thank you. First of all, I believe that although political parties in government may be in different positions in the world in certain matters, all three share the view that Estonia must belong to the United Nations and the European Union and that a strong European Union is beneficial to Estonia. The issue of refugees must also be addressed in this context. Refugees are not immigrants in the traditional sense, people who simply go to another country to seek a better life, but, according to the international conventions to which Estonia has joined, refugees are people who are threatened with death, persecution and other repressions in their home country and their lives are at risk. I believe that there are no people in the government, I think that there are no such people in the Riigikogu, either, who will tell those who have reached Europe's borders and who are threatened with death in their homelands to return to their deaths. Of course, the migration crisis is a serious concern. This has been a serious concern not only for the last four months, but for many years already. This process has certainly intensified in recent months. My clear view is that Estonia must be European in this matter, with solidarity with the European Union and with other countries, and also with those people who would really not be able to live a decent life or who would be threatened with death in their home country. Based on this understanding, the government has also done its job, given Estonia's capacity, we have thought through specific support mechanisms so that refugees can quickly integrate into society and contribute in different roles when they get here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U25	Please stay within two minutes of the response! Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U26	Thank you, President of the sitting. I would like to remind you that people who have come to Europe now are not all war refugees, but a very large part of them are plain immigrants, refugees who come here simply because of the dream of living in a good society. These are the facts, let us look at Hungary. So let us remain correct in our claims. That's another thing. We all know that it is much more beneficial and cost-effective to help people who are indeed war refugees in those countries that remain in their neighbourhood, such as Jordan, where we ourselves have been recently. It is about ten times cheaper to help people in the same cultural area; there is no need to teach them another language and adapt them to another culture. From there it will be easier for them to return to their homeland when the crisis is resolved. I agree that we must help people who really need help, we are all in that position, but the question is the principle of who we are helping and how much we are helping. We did not receive a direct answer from Mr Tsahkna about the maximum capacity of Estonia to receive refugees. This figure has increased more than three times in two months. Perhaps you have more backbone and you can tell us what Estonia's capacity to receive true refugees in two years is great? What is this maximum limit?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U27	Thank you. There was a great deal of confusion on your question with terms: refugees, immigrants, refugees, refugees. However, let's talk termologically correctly. Estonia welcomes people who receive international protection, i.e. refugee status. As of today, it has been decided jointly and severally in the European Union that these people will be distributed according to a certain mechanism. Estonia has been in favour of adopting a certain number of these people and is ready to deal with their integration and integration into society. I think this decision makes sense. Indeed, you are right that not all people who reach Europe from other countries are really refugees, that is, they do not qualify as refugees under these conventions. There are those who really just want to get a better life and who do not have major fundamental problems in their home country. In this context, the European Union, as well as Estonia, has been actively engaged in strengthening the capacity of the Member States of the European Union, the European Union in processing applications for refugees or immigrants in order to identify more effectively people who do not meet refugee status and then send them back. This has been the case in Estonia for very long years. A large number of people who have applied for asylum are found not to have a valid application and are expelled. Estonia has also actively contributed to strengthening the European Border Guard Agency Frontex and has also dealt with the humanitarian crisis in the countries of origin, for example by providing humanitarian assistance to the countries of the Middle East.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U28	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U29	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, in his duties as Prime Minister. We are talking about a migration crisis that actually has several aspects. We are talking a lot about refugees who are coming here, be they 150 or 550, but we are hardly talking about more than 100,000 people who have travelled out of Estonia in the last 15 years. They were hardly all politically persecuted now; they were still economic refugees. Has the government currently under your leadership studied or instructed anyone to explore the interaction between immigration and emigration, how it affects the composition of the population, linguistic, cultural and economic aspects? What conclusions have been drawn?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U30	Thank you. I think you're wrong to argue that these questions are not being discussed. These issues will be discussed very thoroughly. The parties represented in the Riigikogu will certainly participate actively in this public discussion. I know the Centre Party has been very active in this discussion. There has been a great deal of research, both on immigration and emigration. It has been found and rightly found, I believe that this is indeed the case that long-term emigration is an important problem in Estonian society in the demographic key, as people of working age, who are generally more active in the labour market and also socially, among other things, women in childbirth, are emigrating. So, of course, this process has important social, economic, regional and demographic implications. It is clear that people are leaving Estonia. Some leave because they want to do better in other parts of the world. Surely there are also many good ways to make yourself come true in other parts of the world. Many come back to contribute to Estonian society after they have completed education abroad, for example. In the longer term, the question is, of course, that, in order for Estonian society to be not an emigration country, but a country in which people want to live and come to, it is essential to increase Estonia's economic well-being. On this topic, how best to do this, there will certainly be active discussions in all political parties and also here in the Riigikogu. The government has made the growth of people's income and well-being one of its priorities in its activities. I'm sure I'd always like to go faster and more, but let's do as much as we can.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U32	The next question is the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus. Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U33	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, In addition to European Union subsidies, Estonia will be able to pay farmers an additional €21.5 million in transitional support in 2016. Last time Estonia paid its transitional support in 2013. In 2014 and 2015 why no transitional support was paid to farmers and how much transitional support is foreseen for farmers in the 2016 state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U34	Thank you, Reverend Asker! It is difficult for me to answer the question of previous governments' decisions in one area or another. But I can tell you what a fundamental decision has been taken by the current government. The draft budget should reach the honourable Riigikogu table in the near future. At its last cabinet meeting, where the budget lines were agreed in principle, the government decided to allocate an additional €7.6 million to farmers. How much of this will go to cover the transitional support and how much of the exceptional support will depend on decisions in the coming weeks, whether the European Commission is considering that the Member States themselves want to pay the emergency support. If we are talking most about the sector in crisis, the dairy sector, which is also the fundamental basis for the formation of this EUR 7.6 million, then it can be said that the maximum rate for the dairy sector next year will be EUR 9.1 million. If we have allocated EUR 7.6 million for this sector, it can be said that aid is almost 100% coming. Technically, this means that, if the European Commission promises to grant more emergency support, we want to allocate three million to farmers already at the end of this year. Together with the European Union's resources, this amount would amount to more than EUR 10 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U35	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U36	Thank you, manager. Minister for Rural Affairs! One of the government's main and important areas of work is the creation of a level playing field for its companies and the protection of businesses. In the agricultural sector, there is not even any mention of this. Our farmers receive less direct aid than the European Union average, while the government increases the excise duty on specially labelled fuel. The transitional support that the Estonian state could have paid over three years totalling about 60 million euros has not been paid. It would have been possible to pay additional allowances. For example, last year the European Union paid EUR 6.9 million in additional support to the dairy sector, and the Estonian state could have supported it, but not even two million were found. Neighbors pay this support and rightly so, because it is because of jobs, rural sustainability, exports, etc. Minister, has the message that the farmers brought here to Tallinn not come to your attention?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U37	Thank you. As regards the difficult situation in Estonian agriculture, and not only in Estonia, but also in the whole of Europe, there are several risks that have materialised at the same time. The problems in the Estonian pig sector started already in 2011 when certain restrictions began to apply in this sector. The price of milk has fallen by nearly 30% over the last year, and on average in Europe it has fallen by more than 20%. We are also in a completely new situation because milk quotas have disappeared in the European Union, i.e. very clearly and forcefully entered a free market. The state has not paid the transitional subsidy for three years, but for two years. But our milk is basically exported in most or even 100% raw milk to Latvia and Lithuania. The aid has therefore not conferred an advantage on their farmers to the contrary. If we look at the general tax and business environment, it must certainly be said that Latvian and Lithuanian farmers have no advantage compared to Estonian farmers. But the fact that the state has not paid subsidies is absolutely not true, because the decision of this year to allocate 1.7 million euros to the pig farming sector for the purchase of canned products is also very specific aid from the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U38	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U39	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I would remind you that in 2014 and 2015, the Reform Party was in government. So you could still answer the question why no transitional aid was paid to farmers, which could actually have been paid. But my question is also what you did exactly in the budget negotiations, so that farmers can still receive as much support as possible. Would you describe the process? How much did you ask and how much did you get? I know that the pig sector has requested EUR 15 million for next year. What is the position: will you give the pig sector EUR 15 million so that it can emerge from the crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U40	Thank you, Reverend Asker! What I asked was already known in early spring. The Minister for Rural Affairs, starting with budget negotiations with the Ministry of Finance for the final decision on budget numbers, applied for transitional support at the maximum rate prescribed by the rules. The message of the Minister for Rural Affairs to the government and members of the government was clear and clear: agriculture is in crisis and needs some additional support. If the Minister for Rural Affairs could have managed the entire budget, he would certainly have allocated the entire amount of the budget that was allowed. But Estonian society is made up of many people and we must take into account the needs of many areas of life. It was a very important compromise that the Government of the Republic decided to allocate another EUR 7.6 million in the final phase of the budget negotiations. As far as the European Union is concerned, I dare to remind you once again that the level from which negotiations began in the spring was EUR 1.3 million. The final decision of the European Union, also because the Baltic States and Poland worked very well together and involved their colleagues, was 7.56 million for Estonia. In my opinion, these are two important signs that show the attitude towards the Estonian farmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U42	Now Mr Ammas's question to Mr Ossinovski, Minister for Health and Labour, in the role of Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U43	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, in his duties as Prime Minister. You made a number of good proposals for a coalition agreement on behalf of the Social Democrats during the summer, in my opinion. Some of them were also claimed to have received the approval of the government partners. How will these proposals now come true, whether the coalition agreement will be rewritten and resigned? Will any part of these proposals come into the government's agenda and ministries' plans? What's going on? There is another, more important, part of this question: is any of this reflected in the draft budget for the coming year that will be presented to us soon?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U44	Thank you. Indeed, we have agreed 22 points to complement the coalition agreement. On a number of issues, these are quite fundamental agreements. Continuing my colleague Urmas Kruus' response, it can be said that agreement was also reached, for example, on the creation of an additional crisis financing fund for farmers at the Rural Promotion Foundation. With this proposal, the Minister for Rural Affairs has already been in his office. It has been agreed that teachers' salaries will be raised to 120% of the Estonian average in the coming years. It has also been agreed that there will be a further search for ways to increase the tax-free minimum at a faster pace. All these proposals will be realised by agreement in the renewed work plan of the Government of the Republic. There is currently a technical process between ministries, and in a few weeks the Government of the Republic will be presented to the Government for approval. These proposals will certainly be partly reflected in the state budget. For example, last week the government decided to increase only the payroll fund for employees in priority areas. Among these employees are teachers with a centrally increasing wage fund of 4%, but the Ministry of Education and Research, as far as I know, is making an effort to ensure that the teachers' pay increase next year is considerably higher. In principle, rural support measures already mentioned have also been agreed, which could be in place next year. I think that other financial matters will remain in the next few years.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U45	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U46	Thank you. President Toomas Hendrik Ilves was a social democrat before he became President. Are you disappointed that in his opening speech of the autumn session, he quite passionately criticised the addition of the coalition treaty? Have you been able to explain to him the need to amend the coalition agreement and your proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U47	Thank you. The President of the Republic certainly has the right to believe in domestic policy matters that he or she sees fit. His views certainly do not always have to be aligned with those of the government or, less so, with those of some parties. In my opinion, these proposals, which we agreed further on in a trialogue, are important. I think it makes sense to take a fresh look at the coalition agreement from time to time and to write in new and constructive ideas. I dare say that the process of supplementing the coalition agreement, the fact that we have been able to discuss and agree on additional proposals and work together to implement them, has increased confidence among the government partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U48	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U49	Dear Minister, The debate on the state budget here will certainly be very sharp and exciting, because what people are always arguing about is money. Just a few weeks ago, the Government of the Republic made an extraordinary allocation of over 300,000 euros to deal with the reception of genuine refugees, or war refugees. In the last two months, events have progressed more and more quickly, and therefore there has been a need to allocate more funds to effectively integrate these people here, to house them here and to offer opportunities to cope. According to the current plan, how much is the draft state budget going to arrive here next week after the next year's state budget is allocated to both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Social Affairs to deal specifically with the reception of refugees?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U50	Thank you. I owe a specific answer to this question today. As events have progressed quite quickly, the government is not yet in the final plan, neither the activities nor the necessary financial resources have been agreed upon. But the government will soon have it planned. As I know, in the coming weeks, the Riigikogu has decided to hold a debate on a key national issue where government representatives can comment on these issues more specifically. As of today, various administrative areas and ministries have explained the primary additional needs arising from the reception of refugees. In particular, the Ministry of the Interior, as well as the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Culture, have done so. I believe that if final agreements are reached at the Council where the Prime Minister is present today, then the government will then have a concrete plan to present to the Riigikogu both in terms of activities and of the necessary financial resources. The fact is that in the short term, of course, reception of refugees is an additional cost for the country. This cost is not significantly high and is short-term, but it really exists. The practice in other countries shows that if integration measures are sufficiently successful, i.e. we are able to provide refugees with opportunities for education, work and integration, most refugees will soon be actively contributing to the economy, which means that they will become a source of revenue from the so-called cost source. That's what the government's trying to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U52	The next question is asked by Arno Sild, Minister for Rural Affairs Urmas Kruus. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I wonder how the Ministry is currently looking for export markets for milk. You have also noted here today that our main export markets are Lithuania and Latvia. However, the current situation shows that this sale of milk to Lithuania and Latvia does not satisfy our producers, certainly in terms of prices. How should we proceed? There is no point in talking about these few propaganda examples, whether or not a batch was sent to Japan. It turns out that this batch was made of raw materials from Germany or another European country. First of all, it is still important to us how our own producers can get a price for milk that they can survive.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U54	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I think that every kilo of milk product we can sell is extremely important to the farmer. Secondly, I would like to make it clear that when I was talking about selling Latvia and Lithuania, I was talking about raw milk rather than dairy products. As far as the Japanese and Chinese markets you mentioned are concerned, these are certainly important markets. Important in the sense that, at first, it may seem that the sample lots sold there are small, then, in the long run, there is certainly potential in these markets to help realise the milk production that remains in the country. As you know, our milk production capacity is twice that the Estonian people can consume. When you specifically ask about the activities of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, you may have noticed that last week Chinese inspectors visited Estonia. This means that we are preparing it so that, at some point, some or other products can enter the Chinese market. A ministerial visit to China has also been planned by the end of the year to provide a favourable basis for possible agreements. But it is certain that the Ministry itself will not produce any product, but that companies will have to work together to find those tastes and products that are suitable for any market where we see potential.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U55	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In recent years, much has been said about the establishment of a milk processing company, where several of our dairy businesses would be concentrated. The story has been about its establishment in Paide, and it was led by Jaanus Murakas, the leader of the E-Milk. I would like to know how far it is to establish this joint venture and when it could happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U57	Thank you, Reverend Asker! As regards this measure of the rural development plan and, in particular, the creation of a possible plant, the planned state aid here is indeed EUR 18 million. As the good questioner pointed out, one of the fundamentals of this measure is, in fact, that this plant, which should be built, should belong to farmers through cooperative activities. This means that the idea of creating this factory is to deserve more raw milk and leave more profit to Estonia, both the farmer and the producer. This activity is in the preparatory phase and the opening of this action should be feasible in the near future. My big question mark and my fear of meeting representatives of different sectors has been whether we can put our backs together in this crisis in such a way that we can have more market power for a farmer who has the utmost importance of every cent of the milk bill. Yesterday I met with Sakus Harjumaa and Raplamaa farmers, there were more than 40 of them, and I stressed once again that backs should be put together both within the country and in terms of export. If trade does not reflect the fact that a farmer can get more money, it is quite difficult to succeed in the long run.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U58	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U59	The next question is from Rein Ratas to Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants. Please, Rein Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U60	Thank you! Dear Minister of the Environment, The environment includes both natural and human modified space, so the ministry you manage will have to deal with both natural and man-made objects. Everything has to do with the common denominator 'environment'. The protection of heritage and other environments generally work together, in one direction. There's a nature conservation department at the Ministry of the Environment. Aren't there supposed to be a heritage department out there and nowhere else? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U61	Thank you, good questioner! It would be nice if I had to run the Department of Universality, but I just have to limit myself to the environment. This question can be approached in many ways. If we take it purely administratively, we now have enough work and effort to work out by next spring, which ministry could swim in the waters of the fishing industry and how to deal with the earth. If we now come more narrowly to the issue of heritage conservation, I think that, for example, in this area concerning watercourses, fish access and more, there would be much more solutions if officials of the Ministry of the Environment also worked in the Ministry of Heritage. Maybe this debate would be more constructive. As regards nature conservation sites in the same place where heritage conservation objects are sometimes included, such as Rakvere Vallimäe, we are on the move in the Ministry to try to avoid double protection. If, in our opinion, the protection of the surface is also guaranteed by being protected by heritage, then there is simply no additional nature conservation object. It could be such a way of clarity. But maybe one of the next governments who wants to make their own administrative reforms will take the program to get the National Heritage Board under the administration of the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U62	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U63	Thank you! Mr. Minister! During Mart Laar's first government, when we did not have the Ministry of Culture in Estonia, heritage conservation was the highest government institution in the area of government of the Ministry of the Environment for some time. This seemed reasonable because there is a great deal in common in these sectors. At the same time, there are situations where management can also be somewhat contradictory, such as building monuments and indigenous trees, watercourses and swells. Wouldn't it be worth analyzing this historical example of Mart Laar's first government at a government level? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U64	Thanks! Mart Laar has been on the right track in big things. However, unfortunately, I have nothing to add to my previous response to possible administrative manoeuvres between different ministries.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U65	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U66	The next question is from Monika Haukanõmme to the Minister for Health and Labour in the role of Prime Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns health care and disease prevention, which is a very important part of the health system. Browsing the annual accounts of the Health Insurance Fund, I saw that in one year the budget of the Health Insurance Fund increased by EUR 59 million, but only 0.4 million was spent on prevention. Therefore, EUR 7.5 million was used for prevention in 2014. What is worrying is that, by looking at budgets, the trend is that the money allocated to prevention actually decreases from year to year. In four years, EUR 1.1 million has been set aside for prevention. At the same time, the budget of the Health Insurance Fund has increased by 142 million euros in four years. My question is what you intend to do to prevent diseases more effectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U68	Thank you for this question. First of all, the budget of the Health Insurance Fund will increase by around EUR 50 million next year as well. Of course, the balance between the financing of health care and prevention must be actively sought. However, it must not only be sought out from the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, as preventive action in terms of health is carried out in a much wider way. Every doctor who receives patients also deals with the prevention of disease because he talks to people about the type of lifestyle that harms health and will lead to serious health problems in the future. The state also finances prevention from the costs of other ministries. Education for young people about health behaviour is also part of the education system or study programme. A number of important programmes have also been set up outside the health insurance budget to promote disease prevention and a healthy lifestyle. It is true, however, that many funding sources related to disease prevention have been linked to the European Union, so many of them will run out next year, and in the long run, the question is how to look for this balance better. I have a strong desire to discuss this issue with the Health Insurance Fund and the Board of the Health Insurance Fund, because, of course, every euro spent on prevention is far more cost-effective than the later euro spent on dealing with the consequences, the treatment of diseases.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U69	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I was pleased to hear that you support the need for more attention to be paid to prevention. You are now Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund because of your post and you are subject to the National Institute for Health Development, which is really, as you mentioned, involved in prevention activities. At the same time, it is sad that very many organisations in the third sector who are involved in prevention, such as the Estonian Cancer Association, who are currently collecting money for the purchase of a portable dermatological diagnostic cabinet, i.e. to prevent skin cancer and melanoma, feel that they are not taken as partners or valued. Can and how do you think it would be possible to support organisations in the third sector that make a significant contribution to the sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U71	Thank you. Both the Cancer League and a large number of other organisations involved in disease prevention, counselling and support services are doing very important social work in my opinion. Their work needs recognition, including financial support. As a result, the country has done so, but I would certainly like to do better and more. As far as the specific issue is concerned, I would ask you to pass on to the Cancer League that I am ready to meet them and discuss their issue. To the extent possible, we will try to find a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U72	I will conclude on this issue. There is just so much time until the end of Question Time that I can say thank you to the ministers and tell you that Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U73	Dear Riigikogu! We will begin the plenary session on Wednesday. Who has to hand over drafts or inquiries? Martin Repinski has. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U74	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to make a question on behalf of the Centre Party Group. The inquiry goes to the Minister for Defence and concerns the application of a public employee on social media, the so-called Reitelmann case. I'm not going to quote these stupid things here, but I'm sure you've all heard or read what he said. In this regard, my colleagues and I have a number of questions. I'll read some of them. What effect does such hate speech have on our security? How do NATO and our cooperation partners in the European Union view such statements? Then I will ask whether, according to the Minister's opinion, the person who made such a statement can continue to work in the Defence League, i.e. essentially in the department's administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U75	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U76	Ladies and gentlemen, Together with 17 members of our group, I will present an inquiry to the Estonian Foreign Minister on the role of the Presidency of the European Union in 2018. Estonia will, as we know, become the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2018 according to the Presidency programme approved by the European Union. This is a six-month liability that the government takes in order to organise the work of the Council of the European Union, giving it the opportunity to direct the policy of the European Union. One of Estonia's important goals from January to June 2018 is to manage the institution with expertise, ensuring effective legislation, shaping consensus and fulfilling its obligation to be an honest mediator. As the Presidency does not create new systems or structures, but uses a well-established system of coordination of European Union affairs, organisation of work, practice and expertise in the field of ministries, it needs good preparation for the smooth operation of the whole process. So we have five questions for the Foreign Minister. I'll read a couple of them. Human resources strategy is an important part of the preparations for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The staff involved in the Presidency must be prepared in good time. We are asking how, according to the Minister's opinion, the preparation of staff for the Presidency has gone so far. One more question. On the basis of the Presidency Action Plan, a central budget will be drawn up for the period from 2015 to 2018. Will the investments made under the Presidency be financed from European Union funds or from the pockets of the Estonian taxpayer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U77	I have accepted two inquiries. If they meet the requirements of the Home and Working Procedures Act, I will pass them on to the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Incoming check, please! 90 is here, 11 is missing. As far as the agenda is concerned, the draft Act 61 amending the Act on the Person Repressed by Occupational regimes initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Public Transport Act at first reading is Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U78	Last day, we had 18 debates on the draft, where Priit Toobal, the representative of the initiators of the draft, was asked questions, and Jaanus Karilaid was now able to ask his question in the order in which the question was asked. But he doesn't seem to want to do that. There are no further questions for the representative of the initiators of the bill. The rapporteur of the Commission is Mart Nutt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U79	Mr. Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft law amending the Constitution at its regular meeting on Monday 14 September. In addition to the members of the committee, Illimar Pärnamägi, Head of the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, and Sander Põllumäe, adviser to the same service, were invited to the debate. The debate took place as follows: First of all, the representative of the initiators, Priit Toobal, gave a comprehensive overview of the content of the draft Constitutional Amendment Act and also explained why the initiators considered this amendment to be necessary. There was no very lively debate on this subject, but I will read out a few points of view that are important in this context. I would like to apologize immediately to Jüri Adams for mentioning her name, but I think that statement will make everyone realize that it belongs to Jüri Adams. In particular, Jüri Adams recalled the debate on the direct election of the President in the Constitutional Assembly and stressed that several members of the Constitutional Assembly also supported the direct election of the President, and this was the most repeated issue in the Assembly. However, the vote rejected this proposal every time. He noted that he was of the opinion in the Assembly that direct elections should not be organised where possible and, although the current procedure for electing the President has not succeeded, it is politically more sensible than direct elections. The NGO Radical Democrats also sent their position to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Radical Democrats also supported the President's direct election, but considered that the age and birth age requirements of the candidate could be changed. The age limit could be abolished so that, in principle, an 18-year-old person could also be nominated for president, and the requirement for citizenship at birth would not be necessary, if the number of citizens with the right to vote who could present a candidate for president was 3000. This is considerably lower than the number offered by the initiators of the amendment of the Constitution. The Government of the Republic also expressed its position. Government representatives indicated that the government does not support the amendment of the Constitution to change the presidential election system. According to them, the way in which the President was elected was already an important object of debate in the drafting of the Constitution. At the time, it was found that the most balanced solution is the compromise whereby the Riigikogu elects the President, and if the Riigikogu fails to elect the President, the Riigikogu will do so. According to the Government of the Republic, the arguments for and against the direct electoral method have not changed in time. Following this brief debate, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs made the following procedural decisions. The first decision taken by consensus was to refer the draft to the plenary agenda for discussion by 22 September 2015. Another consensual decision was to appoint Mart Nutt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur. The third decision, which was not consensual, was the proposal to reject the draft amendment to the Constitution at first reading (by 6, 3 against and no one abstained). It is therefore proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to reject this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U80	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U81	Thank you! Unfortunately, I couldn't ask the initiator of the bill, and now I have to ask you. The representative of the initiator of the draft act has given a positive example of the election of the President's people in Lithuania, with the President having more or less the same mandate as the current President of Estonia. In fact, it is always a question that the extent of the President's mandate and the form in which he is elected should be more or less interrelational or consistent. What do you think this Lithuanian example sounds like, and was there any mention of it in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U82	Thank you. Only the initiator spoke about it in the Commission. I can add so much on the basis of my knowledge (by perhaps exceeding some of my powers, because this was not mentioned in the Commission debate), that in Lithuania the powers of the President are somewhat wider, although Lithuania is also an overwhelmingly parliamentary state. But the conflict between the president and the government is quite acute in Lithuania. In this sense, I do not agree with the opinion of the initiators that Lithuania is an excellent example.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U83	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U84	Thank you. Good performer! In fact, we did not hear these arguments, did we not, why this decision was rejected? Consequently, this issue was not discussed. But in fact, it has been said for years that the state, the government, and also the President have all been distanced from the people. People want to dial directly, right? We know that. It has always been said, yes, we are a parliamentary state and this is not the case here. But besides Lithuania, we can also give an example of Poland and the Czech Republic, where the President is directly elected. They are also parliamentary states. You've been here in the Riigikogu for a very long time. Tell me what the real reason is. Why do we not prefer elections, if you could say so, but to appoint a President in the Riigikogu? You can't call it anything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U85	Thank you. I do not really have the right to go into the matter, because I am here as a Commission waitress. I can only say so much that a more or less identical draft has been discussed in almost all the Riigikogu configurations. This may also be the reason why those members of the Riigikogu who have been present in these discussions and have raised these arguments have not considered it necessary to simply repeat them again. Indeed, the arguments have not changed. As regards whether or not to elect the President directly, this is a purely political matter. That's all there is. Both options are common in democratic countries, both in direct and indirect selection. It is, I think, the choice of every politician, as well as every citizen himself, which option he supports. I don't know better than that. The majority of the Commission found that the direct electoral system is not suitable for Estonia and the indirect electoral system is better. That's just the numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U86	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Having read the verbatim of the Constitutional Assembly, I repeat my point once again. Mr Lang said at the Assembly that, according to the experts' joint opinion, there were no arguments against the direct election of the President. Jüri Raidla, the head of the expert group, said, referring to surveys which showed overwhelming support for the direct election of the President: 'Ignoring them would, in our opinion, be a political, socio-psychological and constitutional error. ' Only 35 out of 60 members of the Assembly were present at the vote, 13 of them were in favour and 21 opposed. If nothing has changed during the activities of the Assembly, 71% of the people were in favour of direct selection, now this percentage is higher than.. why are people going against the will of the people again?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U88	Thank you. My mandate is to pass on the Commission's discussion and the Commission's voting results. I cannot say at the moment what public support or opposition to the direct election of the President is, because I do not think that such gallups have been made lately, at least the Committee on Constitutional Affairs does not have such a gallup at its disposal. Therefore, it is certainly not possible for me to say that most people necessarily support or oppose the election of the President directly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U89	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U90	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good friend Mart! If all the Riigikogu formations have discussed this subject, then for decades it has been a topic that excites the public and also quite a large part of the political elite. After all, we all remember that the law was adopted in this form in its own time, or that it was introduced into the Constitution for reasons relating to certain persons. By now, all this has become history, these people have gone down in the history of Estonian politics, and this conflict is no longer to be feared. Nor do I think that we should be very afraid that the President and the government may sometimes be in conflict with each other. I think it is normal for there to be disagreements that will be resolved through legislation and debate. So to me, frankly, it's still not quite clear...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U91	Question, please! Time's long gone. The calls will take place later.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U92	... which is why it is so jealously avoided. Yeah, I'm just finishing up.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U93	Thank you. Indeed, the fact that this issue has been raised in each of these configurations shows that there have been MEPs in each of these configurations who have considered it appropriate to have a direct presidential election. However, no formation has, as we know, adopted this amendment, which is a direct indication that the majority of the MPs have not agreed to it. Now question two. I am forced to move away from the Commission debate again, but I hope that this will be forgiven me. Perhaps some people thought it was really a matter of individuals for a long time, but very many people thought it was not a question of persons, but of what type of country we live in. If we live in a parliamentary state, then perhaps I am a little subjective here, too, in a situation where the President does not have real executive power, direct election of the President gives a misleading signal that if people have voted for him, why doesn't he do anything? So I think that this is not necessarily a question of persons, but it is also a question of principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U94	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U95	Dear Mr. Nutt! As you mentioned, there were no real arguments against the Commission. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the current composition differs by half from the previous one, almost half of the MPs are new. Thus, almost 50 parliamentarians here do not know the arguments that were discussed four or ten years ago. The second thing, was there a debate in the Commission on the subject that, if we do not know at the moment how many members of society are in favour of a legislative amendment and how many are in favour of the current system, perhaps it would be more reasonable to conduct a public survey on this subject? Then a common man could say, as in the elections, whether he wants to choose the President or let it be decided by Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U96	Thank you. No one in the Commission raised this issue. Members of the Commission will all have the opportunity to put whatever issue to the debate. Since this was not considered necessary, the Commission did not discuss it either. As far as the public survey is concerned, I think everyone has the right to do so. If the Conservative People's Party considers this necessary, be my guest.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U97	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U98	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mart, the question is simple. What kind of constitutional interference would the President's direct election have caused? Or is there no danger? If so, what is it, and if it isn't, why?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U99	Thank you. No, there's no grate. It is a question of political decision whether it is written in the Constitution that the President is elected directly or indirectly. Riives may be 'political' or 'political' in the sense that if the mandate given to the President and the extent of his power are not balanced, this is one source of conflict. There are situations where this conflict exists in quite a number of countries. But there is no legal constraint on the Constitution, and in this case it cannot be, because, even if the Constitution is amended, it is still a constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U100	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U101	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Did the Commission also discuss that if Estonia had a direct election to the President, what exactly would be the process of setting up the candidate? In some political parties, the internal elections are more honest, in others they are less honest. There are countries, such as the United States, where the nomination of the candidate for the party's internal elections in the primary elections is also organised by the National Electoral Commission to ensure legitimacy. How would that be in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U102	Thank you. This issue was not discussed in the debate on this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U103	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U104	Thank you, manager. Mr Mart, Commissioner, I ask which one is more democratic, either when the President is elected in the Riigikogu or when the President is elected in the Riigikogu. If the President is elected in the Riigikogu, the coalition has two directly elected representatives. Both the Prime Minister and the President. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U105	Thank you. I'll make another comparison. Which country is more democratic, whether the Russian Federation, where the President is directly elected, or the Federal Republic of Germany, where the President is not directly elected?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U106	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Mart! I understand your difficult situation. Indeed, we cannot develop a free discussion, but you must remain within the limits of the answers given by the Commission. But I'm going on a slippery road, and I hope the manager doesn't interrupt me because of the distraction. How do you personally feel about the reason that suddenly the people don't understand that the President's name and election procedure are more important than his rights? This isn't an underestimation of our people, is it? If he is still told who he chooses and what the rights of this person are, do not the people really understand?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U108	Thank you. I'm pretty sure people aren't stupid, but I'm not sure the presidential candidates are always smart.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U109	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I will also address you rather than the expert, rather than the representative of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U111	At the moment, he is still a representative of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U112	Then I'll ask you more cleverly. Was world practice mentioned in the Commission? Has there been a precedent in any country in the world that the procedure for electing the President has been changed in the way that has now been put before us, or has it suddenly happened the other way around?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U113	Thank you. As far as I know, the President's terms of reference have also been changed in the procedure for electing the President. I do not know of a case where only the procedure for electing the President would have been changed and the powers would have been changed. But competence is not necessarily enhanced. In Finland, for example, in 1994 the President was directly elected and, in fact, the President's terms of reference were reduced. It's been quite a mess for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U114	Thank you. No further questions, I'm opening negotiations. Jüri Adams, please, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U115	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our yellow book, the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, which defines our rights and opportunities here, does not give me the opportunity to appear as an individual MP in the current situation. In fact, I am talking about myself, it is not coordinated with my party or my group, but I thank them for giving me the opportunity to perform here. Otherwise, I wouldn't have been able to. I want to go back to the discussions on the same issue that took place in 1991 and 1992 when discussing what face the Republic of Estonia must have been restored. The main dispute after the Soviet Union had broken down and the communist regimes had replaced others was, in fact, whether these countries, as republics, were taking the path of the presidential or parliamentary republics. To date, it can be seen that democracy and freedoms are quite bad in the vast majority of the countries that went on the way to the presidential republics. Estonia and Latvia were clearly taking parliamentary steps from the parts of the former Soviet Union. This was probably due to a political experience before World War II. In Estonia, there was more debate about whether the President should be elected directly or mediated through a electoral body or a parliament. This became a fundamental dispute in the Constitutional Assembly; this issue was repeatedly referred to. We do not have the history of the Constitutional Assembly. I tried to browse through the book of verbatim reports of the Constitutional Assembly to find out how many votes took place on the subject. I found at least three fundamental votes on the same issue, and in all of them people who thought that there should not be a direct election to the President. On one occasion, the situation was such that the advantage was only one vote. Many members of the Assembly also changed their views in one direction or another this year. What Mrs Ernits mentioned here is another interesting aspect of the history of the Constitutional Assembly. Namely, the Constitutional Assembly started with 'competitiveness', a vote between the various projects of the Constitution, the result of which was that the formal Jüri Raidla project did not win. The people who drew up this project then said that if they were not wanted, they would not play along and distance themselves from further action. About halfway through the work of the Constitutional Assembly, they returned as experts. One of their achievements was that they offered the President's direct election as an alternative. When they voted on this proposal, they lost. I believe that the most important vote took place on 26 October 1991 when Tõnu Anton, President of the Assembly, put three options to the vote. The votes were divided so that the direct election by the people received 16 votes, the election in the Riigikogu 18 and the election in the electoral body 11 votes. That was about the voting procedure. With regard to the arguments put forward, dozens of brilliant short speeches were made in favour of and against direct election during the year of the Assembly's work. All possible arguments were developed and a separate book could be published. I myself discovered that Kalle Jürgenson, who has now left Estonian politics and is working as director of Antsla Gymnasium, gave the most important argumentary speech. This speech can be found on page 504 of the book of verbatim records of the Constitutional Assembly. But there are also a lot of other calls. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U116	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U117	As far as the question of whether or not the people are concerned, it has a demagogic taste. You could say people don't want to. It would be more correct to say that such a percentage and such a percentage of the population do not want, as is shown, for example, by the data of such and such public opinion polls. It would be more accurate to talk that way. Let me draw attention to one more interesting thing. We had an event here a few years ago called the People's Assembly. Its initiators claimed that they were based on an event organised by British-born but US-based political scientist Niall Ferguson. In many parts of the world, he has organized such events that he has called together a number of listeners who should sociologically represent the people, certain parameters of the people, and then set before them two groups who have the opposite opinion on a matter. So this is the model of the people who have listened to the argumenters. The results have generally been amazing. If people have been asked the same question before and after the discussion, up to 50% of the opinion has changed. So people have different answers. In Estonian society, there has certainly always been a part of the population on this issue, and it has probably been the majority, once the lesser, that there should not be a direct election of the Head of State. At the birth of the current § 79 of the Constitution, there were also some strange circumstances. It was born in a situation where the Assembly believed that the Riigikogu would not be able to elect the President if there was a two-thirds majority requirement. This resulted in a solution for the Riigikogu and the electoral body. There are many drawbacks to this section, and if anyone wants to work for their liquidation, I would be happy to be his ally and associate on this matter. In general, however, I think that there are different stages in life. There were such constitutive times, 1991 and 1992, when basic decisions were made. In the meantime, we have had no negative experience with the mechanism for selecting the Head of State. If negative experiences ever occur, or if the Estonian people have some sort of historical turning point, where it is found that everything has to start again, then it will come back to this question. However, until that time has arrived, we will continue by the same method as we did then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U118	Mart Helme, please, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U119	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Glad to see so many of you in this hall tonight. I'll pick up where Jüri Adams ended up. Indeed, times change and now the year is not 1992. It's 2015. My party and I are considered radicals. Actually, we're not. Actually, society is radicalizing. One of the manifestations of this radicalisation and the result is that the authority of the national institutions has never been as low as it is now in the last 25 years. This also concerns us, Riigikogu. It's about the government. This concerns the institution of the President. There is a need to reconstruct this situation. Changes are needed in this situation. In this situation, it is necessary to give the people the right to engage and co-responsibility to a greater extent than they currently have. This means, among other things, and above all, that the people can choose the President. Believe me, holding on to what's been so far with ten nails is the wrong policy. It does not lead us forward, but it creates progressive stagnation in society and confrontation between power and the people. So think! We are now, let's just say, a little bit like the situation before the French Revolution, which means that a certain feudal elite, in some ways, we are a feudal elite, holding on to the privileges and position he holds with ten nails. But history is running over us. Even now, history is driving over us. Let us be flexible, let us understand the spirit of the age, let us go along with that spirit, and let us make the changes that are necessary to restore a certain national unity and give people the feeling that something depends on them too. We give them the feeling that they are the ones responsible for choosing the person in whom they may later be disappointed as president, but they know that it was their particular choice, not the choice of any politicians, not any electoral councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U120	Priit Toobal, please, on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U121	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Today Parliament will decide for the 12th time whether or not to move to Estonia for the President's election directly. This time it was initiated by 25 members of the Central Party Group. Adopting the draft act as a law would mean that the current system, according to which Parliament has the right to elect a President, and if Parliament fails, the electoral body will be moved to a direct election, i.e. a system of elected President of the people. In my introductory presentation, I mentioned that this is a rather common political culture in Europe, especially in parliamentary countries, that the people have the right to choose their own heads of state. At the time, I did not mention the countries of the European Union that give their people this right and trust the people so much that the people have the right to elect the President directly. Of course, all the countries that I list are not parliamentary, but these countries have a President and some of them are parliamentary. Of the 28 countries of the European Union, there are countries where the people have the right to elect the President, Slovakia, Lithuania, Romania, Austria, Poland, Portugal, Bulgaria, Ireland, Finland, France, Slovenia and, last of all, the Czech Republic joined the club of democratic countries in 2012, where the President was previously elected by Parliament, but now the people can do so and once the people have already elected the President. One of the problems that I also mentioned in the introductory report when I defended this draft in front of you yesterday is that the current'mixed system' is undoubtedly not a good system. A good system would either be a nation, a parliament or a specially formed electoral body. Attention must not be drawn to the fact that a state reform is currently under preparation, including administrative reform. As we heard on Monday about the answers to the inquiries, at least the plan of the Minister of Public Administration is that, after the administrative reform, there should be less than a hundred municipalities in Estonia, which means that there would also be significantly fewer representatives of local governments in the electoral body than there have been so far. When, at that time, such a compromise was written in the Constitution that, if Parliament fails, the election will go to the electoral body, one important argument was that the electoral body has a greater and significant advantage, especially for those who are not Members of Parliament but represent local authorities. This is not a minor argument; we must also take this into account if we keep the Constitution as it is today. If you press one button or another, think about it. Just as I started my report with a quote yesterday, I'm gonna finish with a quote. I think it is quite good to remember this before the vote. The quote belongs once again to Märt Rask, who has said that only weak political parties with no public confidence are in favour of electing the Head of State in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U122	Andres Anvelt, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U123	Ladies and gentlemen, I will also allow myself to express some thoughts and opinions on behalf of our group. Today's debate is certainly wider than just the question of whether the President is directly elected by the people or elected as currently stated in the Constitution. At the same time, in 1992, with the current constitution, we took a firm path towards parliamentary organisation, towards the development of parliamentary democracy. Yes, we talk a lot today about us here as the Riigikogu and the government, often also the courts, calling us a rubber stamp, which is far removed from the people, we all hear accusations that power does not belong to the people if he cannot directly choose the President. The real power in Estonia is divided between the Riigikogu, the government and the courts. Rather, the power of the President is now also the balancing of the Riigikogu, the government and the courts, according to the meaning of the Constitution. With regard to each authority, the President has a balancing role to play, so it is considering the constitutionality of the laws we have adopted, the issues of forming a government, or, in the case of courts, the amnesty. If today we are directing the perfection of power to the President, then surely this debate must be wider. We need to discuss whether we are giving the President real opportunities to implement this power. Otherwise, we're actually cheating on the voter. We create hope in the form of a so-called enlightened monarch, who can, if necessary, rethink the decisions of other institutions of power. This puts the path of democracy, or parliamentary road, of our choice under great blow and danger. By the way, when the President takes an oath, he says, among other things, that he promises to protect our constitution and our laws and to do so fairly and impartially. The second question is also at issue here: how can this neutrality be measured when the President is elected by the people, although it is actually a party method of election. I'm sure every presidential candidate will have a certain party lined up behind him. This means that the President must make promises based on the world view and also on his political or political background. This means much less impartiality than it actually is now when the President is elected here in the Riigikogu with the agreement of political parties, if there are a certain number of MPs who support him or in the electoral body where this party's dissolution is even greater. This means that the President's view of the world will be appreciated. Certainly, his election promises will change considerably. It certainly has a lot of populist content, but it cannot be applied through its perfection of power. We would again come to the question of the President's perfection of power, and very soon we would hear that the people are also disappointed in the President. But I do not think that this debate has simply failed. If we also have to discuss this issue for the 13th or 14th time, it will not harm political culture or the Riigikogu. We are actually strengthening parliamentary democracy through this debate. If we've failed something, we don't have to start looking immediately for surgical intervention options. In this way, we can do false treatment and create irreparable consequences for our democracy to date. I would rather call on you to strengthen our parliamentary democracy, both on the coalition and on the opposition side, and to strengthen the importance of our Parliament in making day-to-day decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U124	There are no further requests to speak. We will prepare the vote on the proposal of the commission. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 18 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 53 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the commission's proposal, 33 against and 2 abstentions. Draft 18 has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U125	The next item is the draft decision of the Riigikogu on Immigration 53 submitted by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The opening waitress is Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U126	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We will present to you the draft decision of the Riigikogu on Immigration. This is in itself a short decision, which reads: 'In connection with the refugee crisis in the Mediterranean and the refugee quotas required by the European Commission, the Riigikogu decides: 1. The Riigikogu does not allow the Government of the Republic to undertake commitments to relocate refugees, immigrants and beneficiaries of international protection to the territory of the Republic of Estonia in connection with the current Mediterranean immigration crisis, either on the basis of quota or otherwise. 2. In future, the Riigikogu obliges the Government of the Republic to bring them before the Riigikogu for discussion and position on all agreements relating to refugees and immigration. Taking state responsibilities in these matters without the involvement of the Riigikogu and without permission may pose a threat to the sovereignty of the Republic of Estonia and to the breach of the Constitution. ' Now for an explanation. The refugee crisis in the Mediterranean and the refugee quotas required by the European Commission (they are no longer called quotas today, but only some gold key) have created a situation that violates the sovereignty of the Republic of Estonia and other fundamental principles of the Constitution. Similarly, the European Commission's call for quotas is not in line with the EU Treaties or international legal practice. I would add that this is not in line with the mandate of the Estonian people when they joined the European Union, nor with the principles of the treaties of the European Union that were in force at the time. The so-called voluntary reception of refugees is also essentially the same as the quota requested by the European Commission. It is therefore necessary that the Riigikogu emphasizes the sovereignty of the Republic of Estonia in these matters and uses its decision-making powers to the highest authority. The Riigikogu also demands that in future the Government of the Republic should submit all questions concerning the subject to the Riigikogu for discussion and decision. This is clearly a political bill that allows all members of the Riigikogu to take action against the fact that the Riigikogu is not called a rubber stamp. According to the Conservative People's Party, this whole issue of immigration, refugees, refugees and migrants is a strategic topic for the Estonian state and people. This is a demographic issue and demographic processes are either irreversible or very difficult to reverse. After all, we all understand what demographic changes meant during the Soviet occupation when a very large number of immigrants came here. We see what has happened because of the flow of immigrants from very small numbers of people in Western European countries, where the welfare society is virtually collapsing, a secure society is in an ongoing crisis or conflict situation. In our opinion, this must not be allowed to happen in Estonia. We are also very concerned about the fact that since spring the Government of the Republic has presented half-truths to the public and also to the Riigikogu or talked about matters at all as they are. We believe that the Riigikogu must establish stronger supervision of the executive power. That's why we came to you with this bill. Of course, we ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U127	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. The rapporteur is Kalle Laanet, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U128	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft decision was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Monday 14 September 2015. The initiator of the draft decision gave us an overview of why this draft was necessary. The main point was that according to the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, refugee quotas are contrary to both the European Union accession agreement and the general attitude of the Estonian public. The draft requires the Government of the Republic to submit further questions to the Riigikogu for discussion and decision. The members of the committee asked questions to the initiator. Among other things, the question was whether Riigikogu was always meant by the Riigikogu's plenary or, on some issues, the Riigikogu's committee. The representative of the initiator replied that the plenary of the Riigikogu was taken into account in fundamental matters. He added that large strategic decisions on immigration should have as broad a bearing as possible. Members of the Commission noted that ministers in Europe still receive a mandate from Parliament to conclude important agreements on behalf of Estonia. The representative of the initiator of the draft act noted that Parliament did not accept the refugee quotas, yet new quota keys would be adopted. Therefore, the Government of the Republic does not have a parliamentary mandate in this matter. In addition, it asked how the Government of the Republic should come to the Riigikogu procedurally and in what form the Riigikogu's position should be taken. The representative of the initiator of the draft act set out in parallel the provision of a package of assistance to Greece when Parliament had to decide whether or not to support it. He added that the commitment was also a one-euro cost to the state budget. What was decided in the Commission? We decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 22 September 2015 (the decision was consensual), to propose that the draft be rejected at first reading (by 5 members of the Commission, against 4, with no abstentions) and to appoint Mr Kalle Laane, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U129	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? It is. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U130	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Laane! After my speech, did there be any further objections to the Commission? Or what were the arguments for rejecting the draft decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U131	I do not recall that we would have discussed this draft decision in substance later. We went to the adoption of procedural decisions, and the content of those decisions I have just reported.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U132	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U133	Thank you. Honourable waitress! What were these arguments against this draft and in favour of the current system? Indeed, Parliament will discuss each time before ministers go to the Councils to discuss these issues. The place where all this is being discussed is the Committee on European Union Affairs, where the Conservative People's Party Group has a seat as a vice-chairman. I think there's been enough information, and the system works perfectly. The representatives of all political parties, as well as of all standing committees, are members of the Committee on European Union Affairs. So I do not think that there should be any problem with information on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U134	Thank you for your question. I have to admit that I rather had this understanding that it may not be very clear how the mandate will be given to ministers when they travel to Brussels with Estonian views. It was my personal understanding of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U135	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U136	Honourable waitress! The previous speaker is right that all ministers go to the Committee on European Union Affairs where they make a presentation. We have the opportunity to ask and give them a mandate to express their views. However, there is a fundamental question here as to whether this is sufficient for matters of principle that really concern Estonia's sovereignty and independence, for example in immigration matters. The problem is, therefore, that immigration and the reception of refugees do not fall within the same area as, for example, when the Minister for Rural Affairs goes to discuss with his colleagues what is happening at the market price for milk. It's not a matter of principle, but immigration is. The problem is why the Commission did not discuss the fact that it would be much more effective to discuss such issues in plenary, where all 101 MPs would get a clearer picture, and not in the European Union Affairs Committee, with only up to 15 MPs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U137	Thank you for your question. I would remind you that on 12 June there was a meeting of ELAK and before that there was a joint session of several permanent committees of the Riigikogu where these issues were discussed. This topic was not only discussed in ELAK, but the Riigikogu Board also sent this question to other committees in order to formulate an opinion. It's not all black and white. The Commission considered that this was sufficient.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U138	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U139	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I find this somewhat incomprehensible. One idea of the draft is to increase the authority of the Riigikogu very clearly. On the previous question, the direct election of the President, we talked all the time about having a parliamentary state. With this draft, we would like to increase Parliament's authority and Parliament's ability and right to control the government's activities, to make it more effective. I find it somewhat incomprehensible that there are political groups and a number of MPs who do not support it and do not even want to discuss this issue in the Chamber, but want to reject the draft decision. Are you also of the opinion that Parliament must remain a rubber stamp?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U140	I have never said that Parliament should or could be a rubber stamp. I don't think so. The majority of the Commission felt that the current system was sufficient to give ministers the necessary mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U141	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, of course, I voted against voting down this proposal. I agree with my colleague, Kalle Palling, that things are being discussed in the Committee on European Union Affairs, but migration issues and migration issues are currently so acute in Estonian society and not only here that I believe that their discussion should still take place in a large Chamber where the debate is much more public. While all political parties are represented in the Committee on European Union Affairs, this is not a small issue. In my opinion, disclosure here would be fully justified. So again, I voted, of course, for this topic to come to the big hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U143	Now is the time for questions, could have made the end of one question, but it was not. Kalle Laane.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U144	If I may, I would like to comment that, in fact, according to the Home and Working Procedures Act, the political groups will be able to initiate a debate in the Chamber of Riigikogu on a very important national issue. You can do this in this format.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U145	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U146	I would like to inform the honourable MPs that a request has been made to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu to discuss refugee policy as a key national issue in the Riigikogu's plenary session in October. But my question is this: in a parliamentary state, is Parliament's largest committee, or Riigikogu's Committee on European Union Affairs, part of Parliament or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U147	Good questioner, this was not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U148	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U149	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, The claim that the government has been sufficiently and honestly communicating and informing the public on this issue, as well as the Riigikogu and its committees, is below any criticism. That's not true. The ongoing process in which the European Union, by introducing forced distribution mechanisms, literally goes over the will of the Member States and their sovereignty and their right to self-determination is not normal. As Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, do you think that the European Union has the right to cross the sovereignty of the Member States?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U150	Thank you, good questioner! I refer to the minutes of the session of the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs No 10, drawn up on Friday, 12 June 2015. It says that Estonia is ready to receive refugees only on a voluntary basis, provided that the agreement is in line with the size of the country's population and economy in the European Union and corresponds to the possibilities analysed and these refugees also wish to come to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U151	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U152	I didn't mean to ask you so much about refugees, but there was an idea that sounded like it. We have also been in one committee; now we are in different committees. Kalle put forward an interesting idea. Please tell me if the quality of the Commission's work is determined by its size. Are ELAK's decisions three times better than those of the Committee on Rural Affairs? We're small, maybe we shouldn't even try. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U153	Thanks for the question, Igor. It was not a debate in our committee, but I think size does not always guarantee the best quality.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U154	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U155	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Mr. Laane! You just referred to ELAK's decision of 12 June. This was one of the issues that we mentioned in the Commission that it is alleged that ELAK has given the government the authority to move forward with the immigration issue as the government is going now. We are the opposite of the opposite. At that time, the government brought to ELAK the view that Estonia is dealing with this subject, as you said, on a voluntary basis and within its capabilities. Right now we're talking about a key, a distribution key. That is the quota, but there is no mandate. That is why we brought this bill to the hall, that such a mandate must have a wider support area. It amazes me that, just as the whole subject is not wanted to be dealt with, it is thought to disappear if it is not dealt with. I will ask for the same position on 12 June. What was the mandate or authorisation granted? We obviously have completely different ideas about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U156	Thank you for your question. I am afraid that we understand this differently, but we did not discuss the issue of the keys very thoroughly in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U157	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U158	Thank you, dear waitress. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I'm afraid the government's position that you reflected is a bit outdated and obsolete, from 12 June. On 14 September, when Hanno Pevkur was on the Council of Ministers of the Interior, he had already received a new mandate from the majority in ELAK, which not only talks about volunteering, but it has been said that we prefer to assist each other on a voluntary basis. We prefer! Yesterday, I asked the Prime Minister in the European Union Affairs Commission, who is present at the European Council today, what the word 'prefer' means, what Estonia will do if quotas are pushed through by qualified majority voting. All he did was make out his mouth and say, "What else do we have to do than accept it? ' That is why this bill has been brought into a large hall, so that such questions are not pushed through only by a small committee on European Union affairs, but they come to the debate of the large hall. It's because of the word "preferred."
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U159	Thank you for your question. If I may, I refer to you the minutes of the sitting of the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs No 19 of 11 September 2015. At this meeting, it was decided by consensus that it would support the position of the Government of the Republic in the extraordinary meeting of the Council of Ministers of Justice and Home Affairs of the European Union on 14 September 2015. What's the position? Its sixth point says that Estonia is ready to receive additional refugees in a crisis situation, given the capacity of the Estonian state, the proportion of the population and economy in the European Union and the wish of refugees to come to Estonia, and we prefer mutual assistance based on voluntary principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U160	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U161	This "preferential" is the kind of word that resets the rest of the story. On behalf of my group, I say that the public has been misled by this whole immigration issue and that the public has been deceived by figures. 150 have now become 550. I daresay it won't be long before 550 becomes 3,500. I am now asking a question, indeed, to Mr Laantet, but indirectly also to all those who are in favour of this policy here by the government. Take it, people, off your eyephones! Do you realize that with this decision, Estonia will change forever? Estonia will no longer be this cozy and safe home for all of us, as it has been so far. Do you, Mr. Laanet, understand the responsibility you now assume by supporting this policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U162	First of all, thank you for your question. I don't have any eyephones, so I'm gonna take my glasses off. But surely we are all standing in this Chamber for Estonia to be an independent and secure state.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U163	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U164	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm gonna ask you straight. The refugee crisis has never been the same since World War II as it is now. In view of the above, why must we keep this issue of quotas closed within the Commission and do not want to bring this large hall, even though the situation is exceptional?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U165	Thank you, good questioner! As you know, we did not discuss this in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U166	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U167	Thank you. At yesterday's joint meeting of ELAK and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister was asked where the limits of Estonia's capacity are, how many people we are able to receive. You also referred here to Estonia's reception of refugees on the basis of its capacity. The answer at the joint session was that Estonia's capacity is constantly increasing. Yesterday, the European Union distributed 40,000 refugees, today it distributes 120,000, tomorrow 240000, because we know that the refugee flow is not ending, but it is growing. Perhaps by the end of the year, the challenge will be to distribute two million people in the European Union. Where do you think there is a border for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U168	Every time a new proposal comes up, this proposal will be discussed. I don't think you can tell me where that line is either.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U169	Thank you. Dear colleague Martin Helme, according to the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, each member of the Riigikogu can ask two oral questions. My colleague Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U170	Well, since I've been running around with my questions, I still have both questions. I'm presenting the first of them now. Dear waitress, you referred here to the meeting of ELAK on 11 September, where there was consensus on the government's position, as you said. Do you have any information that the EKRE representative was not present at this meeting? As far as I know, he was there and also supported the government's position, which they now suddenly, seems to be protesting very strongly. Why the change of heart? Maybe they weren't there, and I'm misinformed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U171	Thank you for your question. Looking at the protocol, you can see that your data is correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U172	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Ladies and gentlemen, Is there a desire to negotiate? George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U173	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! When I spoke formally on behalf of the Free Party during the debate on the previous item, I am speaking formally again on behalf of the Free Party, but I am now also representing the position of the Free Party Group. I would like to say that regardless of the shortcomings of this draft, whether in its formalisation or in its explanatory statement, or as uncomfortable as that may be, we see in this draft two quite serious organisational problems in the functioning of the state. One of them is that if we have a parliamentary republic, then a member of the government must, in principle, have constant support from the Riigikogu. This is unlike the presidential model, where it does not necessarily have to be like this. Perhaps there has not been much of this in the last 20 years of the Estonian state. By the way, in the 1920s, there was an institution for regulating relations between the Riigikogu and the government that is currently lacking. Namely, members of the government could come to the Riigikogu themselves and the Riigikogu could invite them to report very quickly. There was a debate and a vote after it was closed. It was not a vote of confidence in the sense that a member of the government should have resigned if the result was against him. This was called the vote on the transitional form. This term meant a short, one- or two-phrase assessment and this formula was drawn up on a case-by-case basis. The idea was that the Riigikogu expressed an opinion on the activities of one minister or another, whether he was on the right track. Last night, I felt quite a need for such a method. In the mass media, a short announcement was published that the Estonian Government did not even show solidarity with Finland in the European Union vote, whose representative abstained, not to mention the four Central European countries that were one block. Estonia's public opinion is more or less the same as in these countries. There is now some sort of simplification in the mass media and there is a possibility that something very important will remain unknown for this reason. But if there was such a method of asking the Minister in an urgent manner how exactly it was, you might find out all sorts of nuances. You could actually think about that question. That's one thing. The second issue is how the Riigikogu commission gives opinions to third parties. It is clear that the various permanent committees give different opinions in their specific areas of work, where they have competence. Does the European Commission have any specific competence? No, it's not. He is a reduced model of the Riigikogu and is probably put into practice in order to decide some things faster than it is possible to decide in a large hall. At this point in time, I believe that we have had such a problem in front of us as a result of this draft. Should we not have the opportunity to invite them to the large hall on certain issues, not on all but on some important issues, where, in the meantime, the opinion of the Committee on European Union Affairs has become a monopoly? It would then be possible to vote on the question and, on this basis, to form Parliament's real opinion. The Riigikogu is currently a less rubber stamp than at the time when the European Union Affairs Commission was set up. In addition, the minority, or opposition, in the Riigikogu, could show how much support or opposition to some of their opinions is. If it is only the opinion of the Committee on European Union Affairs, the opposition's position is likely to be lost. So I think that the initiators of this draft, as well as others, should come back to these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U174	Thank you, dear waitress. Ladies and gentlemen, According to § 98 (5) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure, only the representatives of the political groups receive the floor at first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu. My question to the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia is who will speak on behalf of your group. Martin Helme, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U175	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I will take care of the subject that Jaak Madison wanted to come here to clarify and which caused Valdo Randpere's question. Why was the decision consensual? The consensus decision was based on the fact that Minister Pevkur fully affirmed that this wording meant the preservation of voluntaryity. Okay, but let's get back to the subject. I am very sorry that this topic is not in any way wanted to be given such a general political debate dimension in Estonia. I am extremely sorry, and that is one of the reasons why we came up with this draft, that it is a strategically important issue to decide on matters somewhere in the Commission. We think it's very wrong. Now a couple of important milestones. In 2003, a referendum was held in Estonia on the amendment of the Estonian Constitution. As a result of the referendum, Estonia joined the European Union in 2004. There were several points in addition to the Constitution, some of them were implementation points, but the principle was very simple: Estonia may belong to the European Union, based on the fundamental principles of its constitution. There is no greater fundamental principle of the Constitution than there is in the preamble to the Constitution, which says what the Estonian state is for at all and what it must do. The Estonian state must ensure the preservation and survival of Estonian nationality, language and culture through the ages (I quoted it in my head, not literally). In 2012, the Estonian Supreme Court discussed the ESM issue. The issue of sovereignty was then very acutely raised and whether the state of Estonia, whether the Estonian government or parliament, has the mandate to give away budgetary sovereignty issues from itself in the way that has been done. As we remember, the Riigikogu basically broke up and with 10 votes: 9 it was decided that yes, it was right to give these decisions away from itself, but the Supreme Court's decision made it clear that the mandate obtained in the referendum in 2003 was exhausted. The Estonian Government and Parliament do not have the right to deepen integration in the European Union, because a new mandate must be asked for for this. In fact, Estonia needs a new referendum on whether or not we want to be part of the European Union, because this European Union, which took place in 2003, is not the same as the European Union that was in 2012 or is in 2015. The immigration crisis, we use the word'refugees' as sustainably as possible, because it is not the refugees who are starring, that Europe and Estonia are changing their face to the unknown. Unlike one government or another, unlike one budgetary or financial decision, demography is a matter that is irreversible and long-term, i.e. affects both our children and grandchildren and changes the faces of societies to the unknown, irreversibly. This is not a thing that can be snuffed out at the ELAK. This is something that must be given a clear mandate from the Estonian people. That is what the problem is about right now, that the government does not want to talk about these things at all. When he talks, he gives us misleading answers, just as in ELAK's question whether preference means that all of this will definitely remain voluntary or something else, it was confirmed that yes, that means exclusively volunteering. The minister was misleading the vigilante by doing so. We have often been accused of having a very emotional, acute debate about this whole immigration issue since spring and during summer, and of creating tensions and divisions in society. And yet, if the Conservative People's Party proposes to keep this debate in the best political space, i.e. in the Chamber, the government does not support it, the coalition does not support it. I warn you, if the coalition doesn't want to deal with this, this debate will really be on the streets. It's bound to move into the streets. Today, the Conservative People's Party sent a letter to the government, where we urge Estonia to restore border controls at all its borders, both on the ships of Helsinki in the port of Tallinn and on the border of Latvia. This is for a very simple reason: the Schengen system in Europe has collapsed. There are countries in southern Europe on the Mediterranean that we could describe as failed countries. Italy and Greece do not act as countries; they have failed all their European partners. Germany keeps talking about solidarity, but it does not act in solidarity, but extremely selfish and unilaterally. In this situation, the task and responsibility of the Estonian government is to stand up for the security of Estonia, for the survival of Estonian nation, language and culture. It's his constitutional duty. It's your constitutional duty to all of you. You've taken an oath here. I fully understand that the government does not want to talk about this because it is such an unpleasant, uncomfortable subject. If you go against 80-85% of people's opinions, you'd better not talk about it. But you can't really do that. Sooner or later, it will demand a political price. I don't know how to knock on your conscience to get to you. Clearly, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has a completely different understanding of immigration. I think it is quite obvious that we are one of the few parties in Estonia who, with a 'tailbone', sense how critical this is. It's incomprehensible how everyone else just keeps rolling quietly. But it's gonna fall on you, it's gonna fall on you! Please take back Parliament's control of these matters and vote in favour of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U176	Thank you. On behalf of the Kalle Palling Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U177	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As a representative of the Reform Party Group and also as chairman of the European Union Affairs Committee, I had to come to this remote control, because some types have simply taken the trouble of serializing those people who are members of the Riigikogu committees and are also working there in the summer if the Riigikogu plenary does not normally come together. The Committee on European Union Affairs is made up of representatives from all the committees of the Riigikogu and all the political groups of the Riigikogu. The opposition has agreed that the seat of the Deputy Chairman of the European Union Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu belongs to the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The Vice-Chairman of ELAK is Jaak Madison. ELAK has launched joint meetings with other committees where we have discussed this topic. One of the committees with which we have often held these joint sessions is the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is a member of Mr Põljaas. How have you had little of this information and opportunity to engage? I mentioned earlier, and it has been mentioned earlier in this board that it is possible to discuss important national issues in the Riigikogu's plenary. The political groups and committees can propose this. The European Union Affairs Committee has sent a statement to the Riigikogu Board to discuss migration issues in Riigikogu plenary during the first working week of October. Again, Parliament has the opportunity to really discuss these issues and to shape its position. Each political group will have the opportunity to discuss these issues and shape its own position and, on the basis of this position, the members of the committee who belong to ELAK will be able to vote at the meetings of ELAK when another mandate is discussed for either the Minister of the Interior or the Prime Minister to represent the positions of Estonia in Europe. Please don't threaten this Riigikogu speech chair that you're putting people on the street! Since spring, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has inspired this gap in the society to which you referred and has driven people to the streets. Now Martin Helme proudly rejected it from this Riigikogu speech chair. I don't think this is the place where such threats should be made. It's not a debate either. The debate can be held here in different forms in the Riigikogu. Please do not humiliate the MPs who belong to the committees. According to your imagination, Parliament is not a parliament outside Parliament's Chamber. Yes, it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U178	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Mrs Mikko, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U179	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democratic Party Group is of the opinion that the refugee crisis that is currently taking place in Europe is very serious and remains a concern, not for today and tomorrow, but for a long time. Therefore, the Social Democratic Party Group recognises the initiative to hold this debate in the Riigikogu, but not with a tailbone, but with the help of the brain and heart. We are pleased to note that already on 13 October, the debate on refugees takes place as an important national issue in this very Chamber of the Riigikogu. As a result, the draft decision on immigration by the Riigikogu, which is to be voted on today, does not gain the support of the social democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U180	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject the draft at first reading. Let us vote on this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. For 49 and against 17 members of the Riigikogu. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U181	Let's keep going. The third reading of the draft law amending the law on collective labour dispute resolution initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the political groups want to negotiate? The political groups do not want to negotiate. Let's go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending the law on collective labour dispute resolution initiated by the Government of the Republic 52. Please take a stand and vote. There are 62 members of the Riigikogu, 5 against, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U182	The fourth item is the first reading of Act 61 amending the Act on the Person Repressed by Occupational regimes initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Public Transport Act. The rapporteur is Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U183	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft law to the proceedings of the Riigikogu, the idea of which is very simple. At present, once a year, a health rehabilitation allowance (EUR 160 per calendar year) has been granted to the person who has been repressed and is paid without submitting cost documents. In addition, a person has the right to request reimbursement of up to 50% of the price of tickets paid by him or her, but no more than EUR 32 per calendar year. Many older people who have suffered a lot have repeatedly proposed making their lives a little easier so that they do not have to collect or produce travel documents, but it would be reasonable to combine these benefits into one support. The Government of the Republic consulted, discussed, thought and found a solution that should cut red tape on the one hand and make it easier for people to deal with their rights on the other. In short, the idea of this bill is that one of the support for the repressed person is to add up the travel allowance at its maximum rate and support for the restoration of health. This new grant would be paid once a year at EUR 192. The number of people receiving this type of support is deplorably falling year-on-year due to demographic change. The Ministry of Social Affairs has taken into account that the current budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs can also cover the current additional expenditure, which is expected to be up to EUR 52800 in 2016. However, according to the government's analysis, the labour and economic costs of the Social Insurance Board should decrease by around EUR 48000, as the bureaucracy will be reduced as the need to process several thousand people's documents will be removed. As of last year, there were 11326 people who were justified in receiving this support. It must be said that the method used by the law for this support is such that it is not required to apply for it every year. If the person meets the prescribed characteristics and has already applied for this allowance in the past, it shall be credited to the person's account once a year. I would ask for this bill to be discussed in Parliament in substance and for the government's proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U184	Thank you. Minister, there are questions for you. Colleagues Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U185	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, This 32 euros is probably due to the former 500 kroons. Five years have passed since the introduction of the euro and prices have changed in the meantime. Has the government considered EUR 32 enough? Moreover, only 50% of travel expenses are reimbursed and this allowance is only granted once a year. Is EUR 32 enough to cover travel expenses?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U186	The general logic of the Act on the person repressed by occupation regimes is to further support those affected, which is also done with this support. The text of the current Act provides for transport compensation and health rehabilitation support for this purpose. They are old enough; of course, they need additional health costs; perhaps some of them also need to spend transport. But the general logic of the support is that a person determines for himself the practical needs he spends it on. The fact is that under the current law, a maximum of one third of these people, i.e. 3,000, have applied for and withdrawn transport compensation. Is this EUR 192 really, these sums obtained with mechanical conversions sufficient? It is certainly reasonable that the country has one additional national support to alleviate suffering. It is also reasonable that it should be paid out to these people with as little effort as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U187	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U188	Good manager! Good waitress! It is very pleasant that the repressed will be given attention. But is the main objective of this draft to save the Treasury EUR 48000 by cutting red tape when these documents no longer have to be dealt with separately, or is there another reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U189	Thank you. If we speak 'cost-neutral', then, as I said, certainly more money will be paid out. It is clear that the number of people who are justified by this new law to receive general support for repression is greater than one third of those who were theoretically entitled under the law in force. So this cost is increasing. But I think this is a very smart solution, because bureaucracy costs less money and people are easier to do things, they have less trouble. But no, the purpose of this law in itself was not to save the administrative resources of the State. The presentation of the bill was also due to repeated appeals by the repressed people's organisations. This problem, in the opinion of the general public, is perhaps not such a central social policy problem at first glance, but it is necessary to resolve the issue that causes these people to have unnecessary squabbles.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U190	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U191	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I did not understand how the financial cost of the state budget would still increase. I will also ask whether this EUR 192 is enough for the old people who have suffered. The cost of dental care alone is very high when it comes to just one thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U192	Thank you. I say this: it is certainly reasonable to have a special support measure for the repressed people in Estonia. It is appropriate that Parliament has adopted this law. The number of people who are justified in receiving this money is, in fact, increasing. I would like to reiterate that only one third of those who were entitled to receive this EUR 32 transport allowance, according to the amendment of the law, will receive this new allowance for all those eligible, unless someone writes an application for waiver, which is unlikely to be practical in the knowledge of human behaviour. Consequently, people will receive this support more easily, and more people will receive it. Should this support be higher or not? As I pointed out, the logic of the government at the moment was to combine existing grants into one support so that people themselves can make choices according to their personal needs. This amount is, in addition to all other benefits paid by the local government and the state and the general old-age pension, as provided for by the law in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U193	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Committee, would you like to present the Social Affairs Committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U194	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee prepared a draft law amending the Act on persons repressed by occupation regimes and the Public Transport Act 61 for the first reading on 14 September. Mr Tsahkna, Minister for Social Protection, presented the draft and answered questions from the members of the Commission. The draft establishes, from 2016, a repressive allowance instead of a health rehabilitation allowance and a travel allowance of EUR 192 per calendar year, which does not require the submission of expenditure documents. The members of the Commission listened to the explanations given by the Minister for Social Protection, asked questions and expressed their views on the draft. The Commission unanimously took four decisions on 61: to put it on the plenary agenda by 23 September 2015, to appoint Mr Aivar Kokk, member of the Social Committee, as rapporteur and to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 7 October 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-23_U195	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 61. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting 61 amendments. a 7 October at 5.15 p.m. Today's agenda is exhausted and the session is closed. Thank you to all colleagues. Closure of the sitting at 15.43 p.m.
