ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 2nd working week Tuesday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Attention, colleagues. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any drafts or requests to submit? Colleagues Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give the Riigikogu to the proceedings of the Riigikogu the draft law supplementing the law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property. Since it was a long story last Thursday, with your permission, I will not repeat its contents. But I have a wish. I am specifically joining the wish of the Committee on Rural Affairs, which was announced here on Thursday, that the Bureau would send this draft to another committee, if possible, to appoint another. I think that, by discussing this draft 13 times in 15 years, the Committee on Rural Affairs has already been very well informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U3	Thank you. There are no further requests to submit drafts or requests for information. So I have adopted a draft. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides this procedure in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now the messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be a meeting of the Research and Innovation Support Group in this Chamber, convened by Laine Randjärv. There will also be a meeting of the Parliamentary Group of the Gulf States in Estonia, during which a new president will be elected to the parliamentary group in connection with Hannes Hanso's move to a new position of government. I would ask all Members of the parliamentary group to stay in the Chamber after the end of the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check, please. 92 members of the Riigikogu are present, there is no 9.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the Justice Chancellor's 2014/2015. An overview of the activities carried out in 2005. Ladies and gentlemen, I will brief you on this procedure. First of all, there is the Chancellor of Justice review, which lasts up to 20 minutes. Following questions, each member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask the rapporteur one oral question. Representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations. Now, please report to Chancellor of Justice of the Chair, Ülle Madise!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U5	Respectable Riigikogu! All these 995 statements, letters and questions, which have been in work at the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice during the first eight months of 2015, deserve attention from one angle or another. That is even if we have not been able to help the petitioner, because the Chancellor of Justice simply does not have the authority to do so. These almost 1000 things can be divided into different cells: control of the constitutionality of legislation, or our central task; opinions to the Supreme Court on constitutional supervision matters; assessment of the situation in the 150 institutions of the Republic of Estonia where people are staying against their will; guaranteeing fundamental rights in the battalions of the Defence Forces, but also in detention houses, detention centres for foreigners, special care centres, so-called special schools, children's security and substitute homes, psychiatric hospitals and elsewhere; the attitude of institutions towards people, i.e. following good administration practice (again a separate section); promotion of the protection of children's and young people's rights; control of the discreet processing of personal data by security and intelligence institutions as a relatively new area; disciplinary liability of judges; protection of fundamental rights on the Internet, freedom of the Internet and very much more. There are also such works that are necessary for speaking in government, for example, or for taking part in the deliberations of a committee of the Riigikogu, but which are not reflected in these statistics. In general, we try to have a say in solving problems as soon as the problems arise. I think it's statesmanly. It is better to draw attention to the problems now, not to wait until there are quite bad consequences. Yesterday, almost all these areas of work could be discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like to thank the Commission for this substantive debate, in my opinion. Here before the Riigikogu's plenary, I would briefly touch on five topics: access to free quality basic education, freedom of the Internet and the protection of fundamental rights on the Internet, the situation in closed institutions, the control of political party funding, the organisation of legislation and the courage of civil society to speak out in matters of society. The report on constitutional access to good and free basic education is already on the table of the members of the Riigikogu and I will not discuss it in detail. However, I would like to stress that the current organisation of basic education, which includes, among other things, semi-free urban and rural schools, municipal schools that choose students and rural schools in fear of closure, may not be sustainable. This is particularly the case where teachers' prestige, wage levels and school equipment levels need to be improved at all times. According to the Constitution, each child must receive a proper, free basic education appropriate to his/her abilities and needs, regardless of his/her place of residence, parental care, wealth, and also his/her mother tongue. Yes, this is an emotionally overcharged and overcharged issue, which is difficult, if not almost impossible, to discuss sensibly, because we all have contact with it. Education and education are, of course, topics on which every normal member of society has its own opinion and is often rock-proof. I stress that the solution to the problems that have arisen is not and must not be a levelling. After all, it is not ethical to think that it is only because someone else is getting worse. Jealousy and joy, of course, are nothing to be proud of. However, it is this extreme sensitivity, to which almost every proposal to improve the organisation of education comes, that confirms the need for a broad debate on this topic here in the Riigikogu and, if you, honourable representatives of the people, consider it right, as a matter of fundamental importance. The withdrawal of good schools, the suppression of private initiative, the abolition of in-depth training and the exclusion of parents from children's school life are absolutely unacceptable. This is not even a syllable in your presentation, but fear has already had big eyes. This also confirms the need for a broad-based calm debate. After all, the question is how to give the best possible education free of charge, and I do not want to use that word, but it is necessary to give it to the so-called ordinary child. Fortunately, we have most of them as in any normal society. The society in general stands, I don't want to use that word once again, but I still want to use it on a normal person. Fortunately, most people are common, yet special in their own unique way. How can any parent courageously send a child to a near - home school without feeling that he has failed to do so? The solutions are in the hands of the Riigikogu. None of them is easy, and therefore you cannot propose to stop this or the other practice immediately, change that law. All such'solutions' will lead to rather bad consequences at the expense of children. One way, however, is to boldly review the school network and its funding with sufficient advance notice. Fortunately, there are a number of, and perhaps even a majority of, 'normal' schools in Estonia, once again, the word 'normal', but they are doing an excellent job in the rankings of the throne, but they are doing similar to the schools that choose students. Last week we hosted Latvian, Lithuanian, Finnish and Swedish ombudsmen and, among other things, visited the Lilleküla gymnasium. Good school! Among the thousands of children are children whose native language is not Estonian and, by the way, most of them are not Russian or Ukrainian. The most common among this tenth is Italian students, as well as a young man from Sri Lanka and the Japanese, and also Muslims from religion. On the honor board, we saw a picture of one of the best gymnasium graduates in the future, a purely five-year-old student from South Africa. Everyone studies in Estonian, the school atmosphere is good. This is not the only example, you have certainly heard something like this from many while moving in Estonia. Here is a hint to those who think that in Estonia children of war refugees cannot be taught in Estonian. Yes, they can, and if they're here, the Constitution demands it. Education is not the only subject of strong feelings. After all, these populist considerations have been introduced into the bans, restrictions and punishments of the Chancellor of Justice's table, and it is extremely difficult to speak rationally of them, in the language of reason. We have started looking for an answer to the question of whether solidarity can really justify a situation where a small business pays unemployment insurance contributions, but if it does not work, it cannot be compensated. Or whether the alleged technical problems in the calculation of the social tax justify a situation where the creative people, who are paid for their work a couple of times a year or even less, and who pay the social tax at the prescribed rate, are still without health insurance. Work in all our nuances and developments in the 21st century is an area in which we try to find clarity by inviting all experts and interested parties to participate in order to be able to answer the constitutional questions we have been asked in an argument. Respectable Riigikogu! In recent months, we have been dealing with a number of problems relating to Internet freedom and the protection of fundamental rights on the Internet. Very briefly: protection of intellectual property requires a completely new approach, both in Estonia and elsewhere in Europe and worldwide. Extending the fee for an empty tape may not be the best way to do so. How can authors be fairly rewarded for their creation, but at the same time, as many as possible have access to online information and the fruits of creation? How can you involve as many people as possible to invent and create? Clearly, dragging the old solutions of analogue technology with the power of today will do more harm than good. Another topic, once again very topical: how the state collects communication data and other data that travels on the Internet. We have discussed this at the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice with good advisers and have come to the conclusion that there is no need to restrict the country's ability to collect this information, because the state must be able to prevent and detect crime. The focus should be on control mechanisms and that abuse of these data should be ruled out or, if so, quickly identifiable. A little bit of a situation in closed facilities. It is very often asked whether it is necessary to spend time and money on the protection of the rights of people who are dangerous to themselves and others, and of prisoners, because of the disease, as much as once again! just the usual, good people are in trouble with their worries. It would be very easy to say that Estonia has made such an international commitment, which it may not want to do, but it must. However, the honest answer is that all people must be treated without humiliating their dignity. Even if they cannot or do not want to be dignified. This is the core of Estonian society and its fundamental agreement, the Constitution. One life must not be worth more living in the eyes of the state than the other. Many children who are difficult to train can also be helped to become active members of society if they are treated patiently with dignity. Most prisoners will be freed and should want to and be able to start a legitimate life on a white page. Some people with mental disorders heal, even so much that they can do more or less on their own. We have explained to our publishers that moral choices can be well understood by self-imaginating the role of someone else, perhaps someone weaker or someone close to them. A serious problem facing these institutions, whether it is the Valkla Home or the police detention chambers, is a shortage of staff and a lack of personnel. As a result, there have been sad incidents recently where someone has taken their own life in these circumstances. And there are also cases where my advisers see that people who could be helped by a skilled coder at a nursing home, for example, to get more or less on their own at one point and leave this institution, are not going to get there because there are simply no such staff. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we discussed at length that children are often detained in two child security centres with addiction disorders and simply children without parental care. But there is no law on it. To put it plainly, these children are out there without a legal basis. The institutions are not responsible for this, but for six years, both keeping their children there and the standard and description of the service provided to them are not regulated by law. Once again, these institutions are necessary, and the people who work there with their often difficult fates with children do a very good job and do their best. Good representatives of the people, just one question from the funding of political parties here. In particular, in May this year, the Political Financing Monitoring Commission decided to terminate publication of its injunctions on the website before the expiry of the time limits for appeal or the entry into force of the decision. That's not what the law requires. An interpretation that would allow such a concealment of information, the concealment of information of great interest to the public, seems quite artificial. Finally, three reflections on legislation. In 2011 Riigikogu gave the government a guideline: all draft laws must be discussed carefully and sincerely with those who know the matter and who will be affected by the law, the impact of the law must be appreciated and submitted to the Riigikogu. It seems that this decision will be implemented mainly in the case of minor legislative changes and when there is time. There is usually no time for truly important draft laws that change society, and then the government will not comply with this decision of the Riigikogu. This spring, tax increases were known to be legalised in order to finance a significantly stronger social safety net, which was promised to voters in elections and which received electoral support. There may not have been any alternatives to such tax increases, but too many people felt it for the entrepreneurs who came to us, too, that the government ignored the guidelines of the Riigikogu and did not actually listen politely to them. As proof, a copy of a letter was sent to me. One Friday evening, at 11:44 p.m., an announcement was received to the entrepreneurs that, within a few days, please give your opinion on this, this and the third tax amendment. The statements that have come to us reveal another quite sad thing. Unfortunately, Estonia has reached the point that we too have started to recoup civil society's opinions with legal tricks, threats. First of all, it comes out in relation to important real estate developments and detailed planning. Representatives of property developers, often respected advocates, submit claims for damages in an aggressive form to those who object to some plans, usually to regional societies. The prospect of these claims in the eyes of the court is unknown. Rather, it is likely that the regional society, which is seeking to express its views on the proposed public space, would not be condemned for such damage, but these people are acting in the name of the development of their local community and region from the free time, work and family side, and are mostly without legal expertise. The consequence is that complaints and other signals that have reached us say that the desire to participate, for example, in the planning process, where the open procedure should be the norm, has diminished. We have also received copies of such lawyers' threats. I would like to stress that even a threat without legal substance is a threat, and its mediation is also a threat, not legal aid. In the end, I assure you that we will strive to contribute to the consolidation of the Estonian legal order and the cessation of the legislative replacement. Decisions in these matters are in the hands of the Riigikogu. Still, even though years have been spoken of, it is not understood that rewriting laws just for the sake of the technical beauty of the norm will lead to costs. Not only does it burden the state budget, but it also means spending time in court, training, getting used to a new set of words and norms. The law is still a tool, not a purpose. Here are two questions of control. If I may recommend to the honourable representative of the people, perhaps it would be wise to ask them for almost every bill on your desk. Would this problem not have arisen, or would it have been resolved, if the proposed rule had been in place? And secondly, what would happen if the new standard was not introduced? When discussing the first question, it is easy to avoid the cheaply popularization of a vicious norm, which the Head of State spoke about a week ago in the opening speech of the autumn session of the Riigikogu, i.e. criminal populism. An honest answer to the second question whether something bad would happen if this or the other standard were not introduced will help to identify and prevent excessive levels of regulation. I am referring here to the numerous codes that are actually designed to change not social life, but only words, concepts and norm, and which, as such, cause costs, but certainly also the joy of creation and ownership. In a situation where the implementation of the law has not been thought out, the law is amended in a wordful way, or it is even thought that it will fit itself into place and that we will not immediately punish it, nor should the legitimate expectation of trying to take away the technical intentions of the standard be accepted, as Estonia must be able to live with the state and trust in the legal order. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U6	Thank you, Chancellor. You also have a lot of questions. Colleagues Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U7	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for this presentation and for yesterday's debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. My question coincides somewhat with what has been said in the last part of your report, and it also relates in some respects to excessive legislation, namely'suppression'. In the last few weeks, the President of the Riigikogu and the President of the Riigikogu have put our hearts to this rejection. How do you feel about the need to change legislation to resist the issues and statements that have emerged in the public about refugees in recent weeks?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U8	Thank you very much. Yesterday I came to hear the Rain Radio show entitled 'Answering', where Markus Järvi and Mall Hellam discussed the same subject. I think there were a lot of compelling arguments. It is possible that criminalisation, or linking insults and threats to criminal punishment, even if it does not actually pose a direct threat to someone's life, health or property, would create further problems in society. I guess we'll have to consider all these issues. On the other hand, Estonia has committed itself to criminalising the so-called hate speech, that is to say, the same complaint more widely than it is now, when the law does not really hold anyone back from dropping extremely brutal threats. The choices and their consideration are in the hands of the Riigikogu. And here's the right number of options. If you look at the Penal Code, there's a chapter of the threat, and someday there's a paragraph of the insult. One way is to discuss this key. If we are to remain here within the scope of private law, as is the case here, we need to think more closely about how to track down those people who are calling for violence and hatred using the Internet.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U9	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U10	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you mentioned a number of social groups whose interests you defend. However, you did not mention the forced tenants, the large population of more than 100,000 people, who were violently deprived of their homes legally given to them in the course of the property reform. To this day, according to the tenants' association, the state has not compensated any forced tenant for his or her suffering, including material damage. Are you prepared to discuss this issue again, for example, with representatives of the tenants' association? And do you think these people should still be compensated for the cost of losing their homes, that is, the financial cost they had to make at the price of the free market by getting a new home? Should we handle this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U11	Thank you! If anyone asks us about constitutional supervision or whether the authorities of the state or local government have followed good administrative practice in their dealings with them, then of course we take this approach seriously. And if necessary, we will listen to the person, or if the community is the visitor, then the representatives of this association will discuss the matter. So if you want to turn around, of course we'll deal with it. Overall, the number of complaints in this area and in the area of ownership reform in general has decreased considerably, with a few. The question of whether the ownership reform in this form can be challenged under constitutional review
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U12	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U13	Thank you. Madam Chancellor! My question again concerns e-elections. You are one of the creators of this system. We know that some people and many experts and foreign IT teams claim that these elections are not secure and these elections are not transparent. The question is, for example, how could it have been that there were well over two times the number of e-voting people over the age of 60 than the number of young people who had to have modern computers available for e-voting? We also know that there was a huge mass vote on all kinds of public authorities. The Ministry of Internal Affairs was first in place, followed by Elion, Tax and Customs Board, banks such as Swedbank, Eesti Energia, Ministry of the Environment, etc. I ask you how you would comment on these examples. How transparent are these elections and are they even observable to election observers?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U14	Thank you! At present, all countries that can offer reliable remote identification are also thinking about the introduction of online voting. It's for the simple reason that people are very mobile. Those countries that use the vote by letter sent from unchecked environment to a normal mailbox have come to the conclusion that it is exceptionally unsafe. It contains all the risks that are present in the case of electronic voting, but at the same time there are additional problems that are not at all feasible. So voting on the Internet is probably the future. In this respect, you are right to think very carefully each time about the audit of this system, ensuring with the help of reliable and independent experts that the electronic voting system works exactly as it is intended, that all votes are taken into account as they are intended and read correctly. So far, independent international certified auditors have been used to immediately lose their job, recognition and income if they were wrong in their assessments. There have been no such problems so far. However, attention must not be lost at any moment. As for the external experts you're referring to, yes, I've read their texts. Unfortunately, they do not usually have any knowledge of online voting. They highlight and transmit to Estonia the problems related to the machine vote, which is actually another area. At the same time, there are very reliable researchers who have dealt with Estonia's online voting system and found that it works in full order. Fortunately, there are more than critical speakers, and their scientific background is also, frankly, stronger. International missions have also been satisfied. At the same time, I think that the academic debate on these issues is right. Now the question of where the vote will be. The area of government of the Ministry of Home Affairs, as well as the area of government of the Ministry of Justice, has, as we know, centralized its computer park, which means that there are thousands of people behind the same extension. And that people vote using their own work computer, which is secure and does not have the biggest risks of this system, which may be on home computers without adequate antivirus software, is unlikely to be blamed. The Supreme Court has also considered the aspect of secrecy and its protection measures constitutional. It is unlikely that it will be possible to return to the fact that election day is only Sunday or some other days and that you will have to vote at the station. This would mean a pretty strong drop in turnout. People are mobile today, and generally, both electoral theory and state law say that this change in society must be taken into account by the state. The principle of universality of elections outweighs the desire to follow old traditions. So my view is that electronic voting is compatible with the Constitution, but always scepticism must be maintained, and very serious control measures must always be implemented to keep it safe, secure and honest.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U15	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U16	Thank you, manager. Madam Chancellor! I ask you this: the state versus the municipality, the subject of education. There has been such a belief that the state is a better provider of education than a municipality. In particular, we can feel this when organising upper secondary school education. And it is also heard that this attitude can be passed on to basic education, that we are also giving comprehensive schools to the state. For me, the main problem is that the financing of municipalities and the unfinished administrative reform have led to the fact that education life has still not settled. This claim that the state is a better provider of education than a municipality, I do not believe in any way. The closer the school is to the child, the more connected to the local community, the better controlled-controlled, the better. I think it's much better. What is your position: can there be a reason for not doing administrative reform and under-financing of local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U17	Obviously, two factors need to be distinguished. One is expediency, and that is, the honourable Riigikogu, your appreciation. The second is what the Constitution considers to be issues of local life. Firstly, the nature of the local government. It seems that the public consultation is still not based on the unambiguous view that the local authority is not an extension of the state authority on the ground. Its ability to cope is not assessed at all by whether it is capable of solving matters of state life sufficiently well. According to the Constitution, the local government is vertical with regard to the separation of powers. He's not under government, he's not under executive authority. He is the local community's own government. This was the way it was meant at the time of the constitution, and this means that the local community is a community that lives on one pervading territory, decides for itself its own affairs the problems that are there to solve this community and this community arises. Above all, I think about public space issues, detailed planning, as well as what additional support and, for example, events are needed by the local community. This is the local authority's competence just things that are born from the local community. Personally, I do not regard as constitutional the idea that self-governing rights should be deprived, for example, of local communities, which are mainly composed of older people, because they cannot attend school. They don't have a school full of kids there, but it's not a matter of their local life. They don't have to. It seems that education reform is delayed in the interests of local government reform. It is hoped that if rural schools are in a difficult situation, pessimistic and afraid of collapse, very many parents, teachers, and children will react by going to the city if possible, choosing a larger school. To keep such a situation merely in order to have an argument on the basis of which the municipalities would be forced to join, I do not know whether it is in the best interests of the children, and I do not know how straightforward it is. Maybe it's more reasonable to keep these two things apart. One thing is the organisation of the school network, as proposed by Praxis, for example, and the other is the reform of the local government. It is unlikely that one of the periphery must have exactly the same tasks as the city of Tallinn or Tartu. No, you don't! In Estonia, it is perfectly possible to approach the nature and tasks of local government in a constitutional way. Is the state a better school manager than a local authority or a private person? I do not think that such a ranking can be created. The fact is that through education support, the so-called bounty, the state finances part of education. Your tables also show how to finance the maintenance of school buildings. In this, too, the country's share is very large, either directly or indirectly, and the content of education is written by the state. However, it is up to you, honourable Riigikogu, to discuss whether giving education is a matter of local life today or not. In general, I think that a fair reorganisation of the school network with sufficient notice so that children's interests do not suffer, that teachers, children and parents can set their steps firmly, it must be kept separate from the reform of local government. If they are tied rigidly to each other, I fear neither will come true.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U18	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U19	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Madam Chancellor! Today, the Committee on Legal Affairs is discussing a draft law amending the Law on Legal Assistance in which we are based, among other things, on the point of view of the former Chancellor of Justice, who announced, through the BNS in March, that the interpretation that an application for legal aid in a foreign language would be automatically rejected only as a result of non-compliance with the language requirement of the application could be contrary to the objectives of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and to the current case-law of the European Court of Human Rights. Has there been an in-depth analysis of this issue and does your opinion coincide with the position of the former Chancellor of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U20	Thank you! Your question on this matter came to me, and I directed it to the counselor. I hope you get an answer soon. I wouldn't be in a hurry right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U21	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U22	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! My question is about herpes versus criminal populism. Paragraph 151 of the current Penal Code, which speaks of incitement to hatred, provides for a punishment for acts which publicly call for hatred, violence or discrimination in relation to certain features, where this poses a risk to the life, health or property of a person. In fact, we have such a paragraph. As far as I am aware, the law enforcement authorities have not yet initiated any proceedings under this section and that is why my question arises. Before we begin to change the law again, would it not be wise to block certain activities under the existing law?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U23	I think that's a sensible approach. When the Riigikogu receives a bill that was put together in the Ministry of Justice a few years ago, or another bill, or when the Riigikogu itself initiates a draft with the amendments necessary for a fair and effective response to the complaint, a comprehensive analysis of the impact, involving the police, the prosecutor's office, the courts and, if the Riigikogu so wishes, our house. Quite a few people have also approached me with the question of what I will do if I am threatened solely for participating in this or another event and politely expressed this or another opinion. You tell me, familiar lawyer, what am I gonna do? Which court am I going to, or am I going to the police? The only advice I can give right now is to say that I wouldn't go anywhere, that doesn't make any sense. I have quite thought this through; it is up to the Riigikogu to decide whether or not this is the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U24	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Good Chancellor of Justice! Today, you also touched on the subject of education and on the subject of 'The Initiative of Parents versus Equality', which gave a great deal of focus. You have pointed out that, in your opinion, it is not right to level, to draw the peaks off, while in quite large communities, the goal of change is precisely so understood. Perhaps it would be possible to come back to this issue for a moment. My question is about the debate around private schools and now the proposal you have made. Do you not look at the situation that has developed legally so that we are currently levelling out the parental initiative, the initiative and the community approach to education?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U26	Thank you! In view of the reaction that followed this presentation, I will say once again that, if the Riigikogu agrees, perhaps discussing this issue as a crucial issue of state life in this Chamber makes sense. This reaction has been very emotional. Some people may have felt somehow attacked or that this narrow blanket, which they have managed to get warm when they get down, now someone wants to rip off them, but this should not come from the report. Consequently, this extreme sensitivity is due to the fact that Estonia's educational life is very uncertain, people have great fears and think that they must constantly fight for children's education. This may not be the best and most sensible solution in society. Good advice is welcome on how to talk to people about the matter so that no one feels that they are trying to take away what they have won. This is not a solution, it can never be a solution. And this proposal has not been put forward anywhere. This proposal would not be constitutional, it would not be right or fair. Where such a statement has gone from, I honestly don't know. One of the reasons for receiving the selected report form is stated at the beginning of this report. There is no quick and simple solution. If it were to be absolutely prohibited from tomorrow in these in-depth schools, where the foundations now established by the parents fund a part of the classes in the curriculum, the result has unfortunately already happened in some schools, fortunately not because of our presentation that these classes will be placed at the end of the school day. If the lessons have been given by the same person, of course, a large proportion of the students will lose them at all, even if the money is paid. In the end, only children whose parents pay can actually participate in these classes. Now the parent really has a choice: if you pay, the child can go to this class and learn at the same rate as others, if you don't, then start looking at the new school. No such sudden ax solution is appropriate because it harms children and creates more uncertainty. The Ministry of Education and Research has proposed to perhaps stop paying operating grants to private schools, i.e. paying for the maintenance costs of the cabin. The state has too much to cover these costs, and the local government is in a rather difficult position if it has to provide a school for all children on its territory and at the same time someone else can set up a private school. Smarter municipalities themselves have made their own school a private school. You can choose children and ask for more money. But this situation is obviously not sustainable. It's stressful. So once again, I don't know how to communicate it sensibly and moderately. Perhaps it is reasonable for the Riigikogu as a whole to discuss this with its voters when each member of the Riigikogu explains the situation. But living under such stress that everyone feels threatened all the time and is afraid that the school will survive, whether the funding will last, it will not benefit children, teachers, or parents.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U27	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to change the field for a moment. In fact, you said very briefly that the control of security and surveillance agencies is now a new area of work for the Chancellor of Justice. As a member of the Riigikogu, I admit that, lately, I am following with concern how our respective committee has become a formal rather than a substantive actor in this task. But how is this work done by the Chancellor of Justice and how do you even appreciate supervision in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U29	Thank you! On 1 June, the team started to work, and we hope very soon, with the first results of this work, to go public. This time, the regulation of the discreet processing of personal data, i.e. the regulation of eavesdropping and the reading of letters, was examined, directly and simply, how permits were granted and whether these materials would be brought to court. In advance, it can be said that no very big or systemic problems were found. There are things to draw attention to, but also when these proposals and findings have been negotiated with the relevant authorities and the report is ready to be presented. I can assure you that we are acting independently and in my opinion competently. Of those who do this job, one is a member of the Defence Police and the other is from the background of the prosecutor's office, both well - known and long - known in the field. So I believe that independent and expert control is certainly guaranteed by us and that this control is substantive.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U30	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! There are a fine number of people in detention places who have enough free time and will to gather legal experience. So they write ten-page applications to state offices everywhere. They don't like the conditions of the sleeping position are hard, the food is poor, etc. And officials are forced to respond. The following statement shall be sent immediately upon reply. I'm sure some of this iceberg will be on the desk of the Chancellor of Justice. You can always answer that this is not your jurisdiction. At the same time, there is another category of people to whom neighbors pipe gas under the door or have a low-frequency generator on the roof, which makes the person concerned have nightmares and makes the sausage stink in the fridge. The replies to such statements shall form a specific part of the work of each middle-level official. How is it possible to end such a thing? These are operatives who are waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U32	Such activities cannot be completed during the period of the Estonian Constitution in the democratic rule of law. If a person wishes to turn to such a complaint, he or she has the right to do so. Of course, when answering these questions and appeals, the resource must be used wisely, and I assure you that it will be done in our house. The complaints of the detainees mentioned by you will also be read, even in cases where there is an old acquaintance, about whom people who have worked in our house for a long time and who know the subject perfectly well already know whether they are currently in the process of re-communitying or out of prison and for what actions they have been or are now in prison. These letters will still be read. True, rarely, but sometimes it becomes clear something that needs to be checked and that will prove to be a violation. So actually, we're going to go through all the calls. We will also review letters from Valkla's Home, for example. You probably know what kind of problems people are in there with. Yeah, mostly their problems are imaginary. One of the most amusing descriptions was of a cat who, according to a man, ate a bread in his room, and then a helicopter arrived. But at the same time, there has actually been a problem on quite a number of occasions. Our team has sailed out and found that something needs to be done differently in order to protect people's rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U33	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U34	Thank you, good manager. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! The Riigikogu has adopted the Cohabitation Act and the President has signed it. Recently, some members of the Riigikogu have claimed that this law is a fault and that the implementing legislation would not need to be dealt with by the Riigikogu. What is your opinion on this issue? Do you share that view? And what is the light of Estonia's July decision of the European Court of Human Rights, on the basis of which the lack of regulation led to sanctions for Italy? It should be said that a resolution has also been issued by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Council of Ministers. How could this affect Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U35	In my summer interview with Postimees, I answered the same question of Argo Ideon, and there was no reason to change that, unfortunately, there was a great deal of trouble around this topic in society and, finally, something that could not actually be implemented was accepted. So it was just a fight, but it didn't work. This practice, I think, is not quite good. Today, the law will not enter into force without further legislative amendments. Many people, however, expect it to come into force because it is a fact that there are same-sex couples in Estonia who share common housing, and it is a fact that children are also growing in these families. Neither the existence or absence of this law will change these facts, but it is within the power of the Estonian state and, as you rightly pointed out, our international commitment to provide these people with the same economic sense of security in the partnership that others have. Estonia has failed to do so. Unfortunately, this decision is primarily in the hands of the Riigikogu and only then will the possibilities come to court, if necessary also to the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U36	Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U37	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Madam Chancellor! You said in your report that one life must not be worth more than the other. You then focused mainly on prisoners, hooligans in schools, immigrants. But in my opinion, these are not the most vulnerable and weakest members of our society. In my opinion, the most vulnerable and weakest members of our society are the unborn children. Your predecessors Jõks and Teder were in contrast to the opposite view of whether abortion is in accordance with the principle laid down in the Estonian Constitution that human life is intact and must be protected by the state. My question is, what do you think it is? About 6,000 abortions are performed in Estonia per year. Is the life of an unborn person worth less than the life of an already born person? Do you think abortion is an acceptable practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U38	We have not considered the initiation of constitutional review on this issue during my term of office. When such a question comes, we will discuss it again. In this way, I would not raise a question because it is extremely difficult to answer ethically and morally. In fact, the discussion around this issue, as the honourable questioner knows, is much wider and the university devotes a whole series of hours to discussing what is the starting point of life, what is the end point of life, how to make this beginning and end dignified and how to balance possible interests. I don't think there is one simple answer to this question, and I wouldn't give that answer in either no or yes form with your kind permission right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U39	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U40	Thank you. Madam Chancellor! At the end of your report, you said very rightly that it would have to be considered whether something bad would happen if one or the other standard were not changed or introduced. I would expand this idea not only in the context of the Republic of Estonia, but more broadly. We are a Member State of the European Union and, in recent years, a huge number of directives have had to be transposed. The question is often whether it is necessary to transpose another directive, the principle of which is that what is not allowed is prohibited. Could it be the other way around? How do you assess Estonian legislation in the context of such directives of the European Union? Are they balanced or do it seem that it is overregulation and that the European Parliament could think more about whether it really is necessary to set each specific standard separately?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U41	Thank you! I would be very pleased if the European Parliament were to think that way. Personally, I think that, at times, the creation of standards in the European Parliament has also really been overdoing it. However, I believe that the Riigikogu has the power to do two things. Firstly, if a large bill is brought to the table and it is noted that it is now extremely urgent, we will immediately receive a fine in the directive to be transposed! In fact, it is possible to distinguish those provisions which really result from the directive from the other weight of normal. In the worst case, the directive does not give rise to anything at all, usually only to a few rules. They can be accepted separately. Secondly, the directives are always designed to select the most suitable way for a particular people and society to achieve the objective stated in the directive. Here too, I think it is possible to make quite meaningful choices. But I agree with you that at other times Estonia has also been forced to lay down rules that do not touch anyone in Estonia, never to touch anyone, and in which case the answer to question number 2, to which I asked members of the Riigikogu, if possible, to think, was there something that would happen if this standard were not there?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U42	Andres Anvelt, please! I don't think the microphone's working. Please take care of Mr. Anvelt's microphone and maybe use a side microphone. I can't hear you. Let us move on to the questions and ask the technical staff to deal with the problem, so that Mr Anvelt can still ask his question, but a little later. Excuse me, Mr Anvelt! Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Chancellor of Justice, first of all, I would like to thank you for a very sympathetic and human-centred approach to your work. In your presentation, you mentioned, among other things, that, while freedom on the Internet applies, intellectual property protection needs a completely new approach. There is currently a draft law on copyright in Estonia, which many performers believe is not a completely new approach to intellectual property. Have you been able to familiarise yourself with this bill, and if so, do you think it is a new approach? Aren't you afraid that even if we set out a completely new approach, the transatlantic trade and investment partnership agreement will put pressure on this to change?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U44	Thank you! A very well-founded question. Yeah, I'm familiar with the bill. I generally do not express my opinion on the drafts. If I do, then at the meeting of the government, or if I am invited to the Riigikogu commission, or if it is asked to do so directly with the creators of this draft. But it is true that there are a number of commercial interests that are actually trying to leave this solution of the last century to last in the 21st century. It is unlikely that Estonia can be an island that alone will establish this completely new approach. However, both within the European Union and in the rest of the world can fight for a new approach to take place, because in the long term, the last century's solutions will not actually succeed. It just doesn't work. In addition, a generation that is so good at using the Internet that geoblocks are being broken through with all kinds of restrictions. If it is criminalised, there will eventually be a question of whether such a large number of young people really need to be convicted of criminal offences. So this old approach is not sustainable. And solutions that allow a very large number of people to benefit from creative and scientific achievements, while fairly paying for it, are there. But very right, the question is how to balance interests reasonably and not let just one or some kind of business interest dominate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U45	Thank you. My colleague Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U46	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Your Honor, Chancellor! Contrary to some colleagues, it was particularly sympathetic for me in your presentation to raise the question of whether, in modern times, all basic school and upper secondary school education could perhaps also be the responsibility of the state. While the realisation of this idea now seems utopian, do you believe that the state is fulfilling its constitutional obligation to adequately control the activities of local authorities in the field of education and to ensure the quality of learning, or could it be carried out more forcefully and consistently?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U47	On the basis of the information we have received, it can be concluded that, unfortunately, there is no situation in Estonia where free and high quality basic education is available to everyone, regardless of their place of residence, their mother tongue and socio-economic background. How much can be done here by the Ministry of Education and Research with their supervision, they would respond more competently than I would. However, the fact is that the situation that we all probably want is that the parent will be able to send the child to the school nearest to home and be sure that he or she will be able to receive the best qualifications for further studies and work in line with his or her abilities and interests from there at the end of comprehensive school is not. Now the question is how to change it, how to solve the least human suffering possible, where many rural schools operate in fear of closure, where teachers are missing and they are under-proportioned, where there are problems with schools for children with special needs. Many parents need to rely on private initiative and with their money find a way to train a child with special needs. I think that in this situation it may not be reasonable to hold firmly to the approach that a local government unit has the right to decide that there is a school in its territory and that it will be paid by the final state even if the level of teaching in this school does not meet the requirements. Perhaps there is a more sustainable solution for people that the Ministry of Education and Research decides where the schools are and who holds them. How the funding will be financed is the next question. Expecting reform of the local government in order to clean up the school network can cause too much suffering for people and take a very, very long time. Once again, the Riigikogu has the choices and decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U48	Mr Anvelt is now trying to ask the Group of the Centre Party, perhaps the microphone is working. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U49	Yeah, I can hear you now. But I have not changed the political group in substance, purely in form. Your Honor, Chancellor! I have a question about the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu as amended in several proceedings. In particular, the previous Chancellor of Justice, Mr Teder, also pointed out that such a wording or task in the Code of Criminal Procedure is certainly unconstitutional in terms of the burden placed on the Chancellor of Justice. In essence, the evidence must be assessed. Now we have another new version of the end of the previous Riigikogu, where the Constitutional Committee, Tallinn District Court and others play a very important role alongside the Chancellor of Justice. As Chancellor of Justice, have you analyzed whether such a wording satisfies you and, let us say, is fair about the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U50	The honest answer is that we have not analysed this regulation. However, we have gathered information about how members of the Riigikogu can participate in court proceedings, for example, if civil liability is paid against them as a member of the company's council. As we know, one of the objectives of this legislative amendment was to enable a member of the Riigikogu not to take part in legal proceedings if it hinders his work. Some constitutional practice has arisen here and this has not led to the Riigikogu, fortunately, excluding members of the Riigikogu from taking part in legal proceedings. In matters of immunity of members of the Riigikogu, I was, and still am, somewhat different from my predecessor. I think that today the treatment of members of the Riigikogu as compared to other people, other members of society, may not be justified. To the question of whether the members of the Riigikogu must be more protected from possible illegal pursuits than other people, for example, was my answer earlier and is still that no person in the Republic of Estonia should be illegally pursued.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U51	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U52	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, Chancellor of Justice, I would like to thank you for your comprehensive answers. But can you tell us how to proceed in a situation where there is a decision of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of 16 March 2010 but in yesterday's round of inquiries, ministers said that it was almost impossible to resolve this very complex issue? Can it be concluded that the decisions of the Supreme Court may not be complied with in the future because their execution is difficult and there is no good solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U53	In the rule of law, which works as provided for in the Constitution, the decisions of the Supreme Court are for everyone, including the Riigikogu and the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U54	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U55	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Chancellor! Here's the question. As Chairman of the administrative assembly, I had to deal with the need for people coming from detention facilities to be integrated into society and found some kind of social space for them. I was visited by brothers who had tattooed their upper body as a sailor's shirt, all of whom were such cool guys. And at the same time, I dealt with people who were repressed in the course of the property reform, who were driven to the streets. Some have had to be integrated into society, but at the same time our loyal citizens have basically been pushed away from society. How do you look at this question, and do you think that ORAS needs to be reviewed again?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U56	It is up to the Riigikogu to decide whether the law on the basis of the property reform should be reviewed and to provide for damages for those acts and decisions that have already been made. As I pointed out earlier, in my opinion, there would be no prospect of launching such a dispute in the Supreme Court within the framework of constitutional review.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U57	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U58	(Nothing to say.)
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U59	It seems to me that the Socialists have been deprived of their say in today's sitting, but let us use the line of the friendly Centre Party Group again. We'll move on in the meantime. Hatter, please! Well, the Hatter isn't in the hall right now. Then let's move on. Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U60	Thank you very much, Chancellor of Justice, for your presentation and for this comprehensive material, which was also available on the Internet. A number of Chancellors of Justice have dealt with the relations between the legislator and the executive power before you, and you will certainly do the same. My question concerns the membership of the members of the Riigikogu, which have been spoken of, as well as the boards of companies. Your predecessors have been in quite different positions and these disputes have been going on for quite a long time. Various internships are still ongoing. Have you been able to shape your final position on whether the membership of the councils of state-owned companies is constitutional? If you are, can you introduce us to this? I understand that you have already expressed your position in part, but perhaps you will also say so before the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U61	Thank you! This issue was addressed yesterday both in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption. I think that the final position must be taken when it is necessary to decide whether to propose to bring the laws into line with the Constitution or to refer them to the Supreme Court on this matter. But for now, my position is still a third one compared to that of my predecessors. So three lawyers, three different opinions, good that not four. However, I have been in that position for ten years and so far nothing has worked out to make it change. For me, the responsibility of the members of the board of directors of a public undertaking is also a central issue. How can we ensure that people's money and other belongings walk around there with the same care as they walk with their belongings? How can it be achieved that a person who belongs to the council of a state company, whether a member of the Riigikogu, a person close to a political party or a financier, an entrepreneur, a lawyer, an official of any kind, treats the management and future of the company with the same care as for securing his own money and other assets? That is the central issue. As we discussed yesterday in the Special Committee on Corruption, it is possible that the relevant provisions of the Commercial Code need to be clarified. As far as we know, there have been only a few or three cases in the case law on this issue and no substantive solution has been reached. The question now is whether the members of the Riigikogu are allowed to belong to the councils of state-owned companies at all. As a second public office, I would not consider a member of the board of directors of a public undertaking. However, it is contrary to the Constitution that a minister appoints a member of the Riigikogu to this council and that a member of the Riigikogu must, in essence, be guided by the guidelines of the Minister. This is not to ensure the balance of powers, as is foreseen for example in the case of the Board of the State Forest Management Centre, which is also part of the area of executive power. This is not a breach of the principle of separation of powers, but of the principle of separation of powers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U62	Colleagues Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U63	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. First of all, thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for an electronic and very thorough review, as well as for today's presentation. My question concerns the issue of welfare. You have checked a wide range of special care institutions, including the safeguarding of the rights of people in closed institutions. If I may, I quote your sentiments that prompted me to ask. You said that all people should be treated with dignity, even when they cannot or do not want to be dignified. One life must not be worth more living in the eyes of the state than the other. The question, however, is that in Estonia there are very different services, also in national special care institutions. For example, the care of older people, including demented older people, is purely a matter for the municipalities and costs 1.6 times more than the usual place, and very many cannot cope with paying for it. How do you feel about changing public funding for elderly care?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U64	That's one solution. Once again, I must repeat the words that have already been said several times that these solutions are primarily in the hands of the Riigikogu. But it is true that our people are constantly attending, both in advance and unannounced, during the day and at night, in all the establishments where people are being detained against their will. There are approximately 150 of these institutions. But our people also go to a lot of other institutions, including the 11 homeless accommodations we have. In all these places, including children's replacements and shelters, all caretakers, regardless of where they are, must be treated with dignity. That's why they study living conditions, study the food they're being offered. And what is the most serious problem? First of all, monitoring these people so that they don't hurt themselves or others wouldn't take their own lives. Of course, it must also be monitored that these medicines are given and that if they are aggressive, whether they are contained, soothing is done in the way it is intended to be done. The conclusions that have been drawn from the verification of a wide range of bodies in this area are found on our website. Thank you so much for getting to know me about this. I think that the attention of members of the Riigikogu is also extremely important for those teams who attend these institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U65	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U66	Thank you, good manager. Good Chancellor of Justice! Plans are one of the main drivers of corruption in municipalities of different sizes, and this is no secret at all. You also pointed out that it has gone so far that planners are making threatening letters. There is also a practice in which lawyers representing municipalities offer money themselves to quickly turn the case in their favour. What have you advised those who have received such threats?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U67	We have received some official complaints and consultations and a number of information from unofficial channels. First of all, we have recommended not to lose our senses, rather not to respond to these statements and to proceed calmly in the open procedure. One of the last visitors is the Telliskivi Society and a written reply is currently being prepared. It must be borne in mind that we cannot and do not wish to take the place of a court or a governor. However, in the light of the Constitution, there is a completely unacceptable practice in which people who wish to speak on this subject are intimidated when planning, in other words, in shaping the public space of the community. Very often, the explanatory statement accompanying the plan, as well as the drawings, is so confusing for the expert that it is virtually impossible to distinguish the correct statement of fact from a lie. Well, I guess everyone who's been in touch with the plans knows that. I, too, who have been in contact with this subject for years, both as a lecturer and as a participant in some planning procedures, can only confirm this. In such a situation, it is absolutely inappropriate to blame and threaten the spokespersons for civil society. So first, we need to encourage these people to stay cold, but we will also try to get the written position ready soon. Then it will be public, and I hope and believe that it will also receive attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U68	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U69	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Chancellor of Justice! You stressed the importance of early notice of the changes to the target groups. In this Chamber, the opinion was that there are times of great uncertainty in the field of education. As you are well aware, the Ministry of Education is preparing a bill amending the financing of private schools, scheduled to enter into force at the beginning of the next academic year. How do you assess whether or not this is a sufficient and reasonable period of notice of change?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U70	Thank you! An analysis of this issue is being carried out in our house. I can assure you that, when it was at the meeting of the Government of the Republic, it was because of the right to speak on matters concerning my office and because of my principle of seldom exercising this right to speak, but if it is necessary, anyway, I pointed out that, if such a change is to be made, it must be done in consultation with the parties and possibly with exceptions. Perhaps, however, additional support for schools for children with certain special needs should be retained. But the most important thing is that the notice period must be sufficient. Is it enough to have a normal ten days here, just as the Constitution requires? Probably not in this case, because these schools have made their own economic plans and several schools have taken out loans. How long that time could be, it is likely that the debate will turn out. I can assure you that the good councilmen will handle this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U71	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U72	Thank you, President-in-Office. Your Honor, Chancellor! In most European countries, asylum seekers have been given a definitive answer about their asylum application and are not subject to challenge. The situation in Estonia is different. In Estonia, if a negative reply is received, the decision can be appealed, challenged and done at the most expensive law office, even at the expense of the state. Do you think that it is reasonable for the state to finance the contestation of its own decisions, in other words, to go to court with itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U73	I know that my advisors are currently following this debate closely. If I may, this answer will reach you in writing. Before I answer you, I would like to clarify the details of exactly what this right of appeal is and how it will be financed. I don't know these details right now, and I can't answer them. But the Constitution provides, both for us and for most other countries, that all decisions taken by public authorities concerning people on their territory are subject to judicial review. To what extent, in this case, if this problem is exactly what you described it to be, and what are the reasons for it, I can say when additional information has been collected. But thank you very much for raising this problem. The councillors wrote it down, maybe in the next few hours the answer will be in your mailbox.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U74	Raivo Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U75	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Chancellor of Justice! The new area that the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice is now dealing with is the monitoring of the guarantee of fundamental rights and freedoms of people by intelligence and security authorities. When this action was started, the law of the Chancellor of Justice had to be amended. And there was quite a serious debate during the procedure of the draft law on how the Chancellor of Justice could check the decision-making process of judges in the case of intelligence procedures requiring the permission of the court. How do judges, especially first instance judges, still apply this ultima ratio principle? As judges are independent and independent in their activities, they remained relatively open and confused, while several judges of the Supreme Court also pointed out that this control was necessary. Is there some sort of solution or rational proposal for dealing with this problem found today, once you have had some experience?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U76	Thank you. This is one of the issues in which we are debating, and the situation we have reached in domestic disputes is also reflected in the overview by the simplified title 'Security Institutions', which refers to security and surveillance institutions. It states that we really do not rule out the control of the judge's actions, but of course we cannot interfere in justice. Where exactly does that line run from? I think we can begin to put this in place when the first cases in this area are in progress and go beyond our competence to argue. It is unlikely to be precisely defined in abstract terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U77	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U78	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Chancellor of Justice, thank you very much, of course, for this very thought-provoking report on bottlenecks. Just as two pre-questioners have already been inspired by your saying that all people must be treated with dignity, so have I. But I'd like to expand a little bit around the topics. Disabled persons must be under the special care of the state and local government. Currently, most services are provided and subsidies are distributed at municipal level, based on the subsidiarity principle. Undoubtedly, this is very right. But as a result, we know 200 and more different practices, where equal treatment of people is not always guaranteed. In addition, work capacity reform is underway and access to services is the biggest challenge. How do you assess whether, in the existing situation, the right of persons with disabilities to the necessary assistance is guaranteed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U79	Thank you. Unfortunately, judging from the information I have received, there are some problems in this area. Disabled people, as well as their carers, are very often in serious trouble. I think that there are 213 local government units in Estonia and that there are slightly different practices in resolving one or the other issue, there is nothing wrong with itself. It seems to me that freedom and the opportunity to do things in the best possible way, just as it is necessary in your community and for one or another member of your community, is actually reasonable and can produce the best result. But it is also true that if those who are responsible do not really want or cannot bear this responsibility, then the result for man is poor. For me, it is rather a question of who should finance support for people with disabilities, the aid measures they need, and what should be the minimum standard that is guaranteed for everyone. In general, I believe that the nature of local life has changed. At one time, the municipality was able to support those in need and train their children, and many people lived in one rural area and the composition of the population was quite similar across Estonia. This is not the case today. Very often, people on very low incomes and older ones are concentrated in one or the other. In such a situation, it is not fair to say that these municipalities should be able to help those in need of help out of their income and their mind and ingenuity. This is probably an area that needs to be more publicly funded.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U80	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much, Chancellor of Justice, for this very meaningful overview and also for the very beautiful, logical and substantive answers to all the questions. The problems you have pointed out are all very substantial. They concern us all one way or the other, and surely you could have talked about a lot more in your report. My question to you is: what do you think is most missing in our life today?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U82	That's such a good question that I was about to make a ranking in my head. It's very difficult to generalise. Right now, I'm thinking about saying that there's a lack of wisdom, but a lot of people still have wisdom. Goodness? A lot of people are good too. So I don't think everyone's missing everything. But wisdom and goodness are certainly something that we do not have over.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U83	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable speaker, I would also like to thank you for the excellent reading material and I hope that all colleagues will read it through. But my question comes from last night's hearing, where the issue of the pay of kindergarten teachers was discussed again. At times, I felt like I'd ended up in some dumb-ass country or... It is like being intelligent people and understanding that it is necessary to pay teachers a decent salary, yet it is still the case that the pay of kindergarten teachers in municipalities is very different. From the point of view of basic education, which you have touched on, while talking about primary school and upper secondary school, could it not be that the salaries paid in kindergartens also fall within the competence of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U85	When it comes to qualifications requirements for kindergarten teachers, pay, working conditions and providing kindergarten places, there are different choices. The approach of kindergarten teachers came to me a few weeks ago, and we are working on looking for appropriate answers. Whether the pay of a kindergarten teacher should be the same in all local government units is again a matter of your choice. If you ask me, I don't think you do. Inevitably, even if the cost of living is different in municipalities, it may be reasonable that a kindergarten teacher earns somewhat more where the living costs are higher than in those municipalities where the costs are not so high. Maybe so. Can the law prescribe a uniform salary for kindergarten teachers regardless of where someone works, it is up to you to decide. If the state has resources, why not? There's no double-thinking around here. Very many countries have seen it so that, in this very sense, in pre-school education, or kindergarten, the foundation for further successful education and working life begins. I have visited different countries as part of the working groups of international organisations. There are problems with Roma integration, for example, and there are problems with helping different groups of children living in segregation and adopting society. But it is the importance of kindergarten and preschool that has been stressed everywhere, if these children are to be brought out of their homes, to be brought into the learning and language environment. So the feeling is that the work of kindergarten teachers has so far been a little under-emphasised.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U86	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U87	I have this question now. Today, quite a large number of Estonian citizens are scattered around the world. Some will come back, some probably won't come back. Our current laws do not formally recognise the possibility of double citizenship, which should mean that if the Estonian state becomes aware that someone has registered as a citizen of another state, it should exclude this person from among Estonian citizens. What is your opinion, would it be necessary, in such a situation, that the principle of double citizenship be introduced into Estonian law in one form or another?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U88	This is a very fundamental question, and you, Mr Adams, as the founder of one of the constitutions, remember the debates that were sent by the Constitution of Estonia, by the basic agreement approved by the people, to the formation of the citizenship provisions exactly as they have become. If double citizenship is envisaged, it is not unproblematic either. These problems have been repeatedly highlighted, inter alia, in relation to the obligation of countries to protect their citizens abroad in the event of possible attacks or other forms of distress. If Estonia were to allow several citizenships, it would probably create a number of practical problems in addition to certain loyalty issues or violating the beliefs of the Estonian people. At the same time, there are also arguments that support the wider possibility of double citizenship. So once again, this is the topic of the debate on the representative of the people. I can kindly offer arguments in favour of both approaches and unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U89	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U90	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise, for the warmth and empathy you have brought into this cold blue room. My question concerns a little bit of the Constitution and also one question of balance. Our legal system consists of many restrictions, restrictions, prohibitions. At the same time, many rights and freedoms have been mentioned in the Constitution, but relatively few obligations have been mentioned. For example, parents need to support their minor children, but children are not obliged to support their parents. Or there are many prohibitions and orders to preserve nature and heritage, but the owners do not have the obligation to preserve our semi-natural communities and landscape heritage. What about this balance in your eyes?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U91	That's a very good question again. This is also a pretty good, easy-to-measure question on the constitutional test, which is the title of Chapter II of our Constitution. And, of course, it is 'fundamental rights, freedoms and obligations'. We also find key responsibilities, such as participation in the military service and some other things, outside Chapter II. Whether the family's responsibility to care for its members in need, as stated in the Constitution, and which the laws actually extend by the fact that children have to care for their parents, should be extended, or whether the obligations to protect the natural environment as well as the built environment and cultural values should be extended, you can decide that once again. I have no reason to say which solution would be the right one. But if there are any arguments, I would be happy to offer them again, and there are things that have stuck in the study of state law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U92	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U93	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Your Honor, Chancellor! The main task of the Chancellor of Justice is to monitor the development of the legal environment, which takes place in two main ways: on the one hand, you are monitoring the legislation that is still in force and, on the other hand, you are following the analysis of cases that have taken place in practice. How do you assess the change in its proportion over time and what could be your desire or recommendation as a result?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U94	Very often, we have been asked what is the priority in our work. Time and again, the answer has to be that one priority cannot be set. If we have a complaint, a signal or we discover ourselves that someone's fundamental rights are being violated, the reason for this is the fact that the law or regulation under which it takes place is unconstitutional or that the constitutional law or regulation is being misdirected. Then we'll have to intervene and we will. There are deadlines. We also have large-scale investigations on our own initiative, which always start with information collected in society, whether it be the same subject of education or the issue of health insurance for artists or, for example, unemployment insurance for company board members. Yeah, that's what we do. In addition, we will, of course, discuss the issues in which we could take the floor at the meeting of the Government of the Republic. However, as has been said earlier, these speeches must be seldom and narrowly limited to the duties of the Chancellor of Justice. Our main role is to assess the constitutionality of the laws already adopted on the basis of the Constitution and other laws. At the same time, I personally consider it statesmanly and reasonable that, if the problem stands out, we will draw attention to it immediately, but as a rule without drawing public attention to it. It is in our interest that the laws in Estonia are compatible with the Constitution and that they are also implemented in a constitutional manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U95	Fruit Savisaar-Toomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U96	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Chancellor! My question concerns the protection of fundamental rights and, frankly, I find it very difficult to formulate it, but I will try to put forward this question while we are discussing it. We know that, in the case of certain serious infectious diseases, which we consider to be cholera, fever and tuberculosis, we can take coercive treatment of patients and this is not a violation of fundamental rights. But if we take an infectious disease such as AIDS, it will be subject to a different regulation. And the difference is made on this surface that the infection with HIV is as if caused by a person's own behavior. But we know that this may not be the case for a long time. My question concerns the extent to which the Constitution could be affected if we put in place a procedure so that when a person has gone to an outpatient or has entered a standing facility, he should not be asked for permission to take a test for HIV. Of course, I do not mean not to talk to him about it, but would it be a violation of the Constitution if this test were to be carried out if the patient were refused. The aim would be to prevent the further spread of HIV. I didn't know better than to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U97	Ladies and gentlemen, let us try to fit the question in one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U98	I've noted the question. And just as with the question of Honourable Member of the Riigikogu, Henn Põllea, the councillors have written it down and as soon as the answer is ready, we will answer you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U99	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U100	Honourable Vice President! Good waitress! Among the many things we must protect is Estonian. Words have been invented into Estonian, I looked at, for example, 'terees','muffle' and'selmet', which even the bosses cannot use. The ugliest word in Estonian is 'infrastructure', as determined by the Commission. Recently, there was an act of "screaming" that offends my sensitive ear about music. He's not gonna hurt you. He's just insulting me. The reference to John Aavik is inappropriate in the sense that Aavik was known to deal primarily with syntax and morphology. Word-making was undoubtedly one of the weakest aspects of his activities, to which attention was also drawn in Tuglas. Please tell me what to do so that officials don't use sloppy junk language or invent what pagan combinations of letters, calling it Estonian legal language?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U101	Thank you to a good colleague of the professor of law. It is not true that it would be reasonable to agree and agree on terms in legal discussions, otherwise there will be no discussion leading to results. However, when it comes to the free expression of people in whatever form, including using unarbitrators, it is a constitutionally protected right.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U102	Chancellor, there are no further questions for you. I thank you for your very thorough answers to the members of the Riigikogu. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] Let's move on with the negotiations. Mr Toobal of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U103	Your Honor, Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me also, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, to thank the Chancellor of Justice for today's meaningful presentation, for yesterday's debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and also for the electronic report that is on the Chancellor of Justice's website. I think the new approach chosen by the Chancellor in his dealings with Parliament is very commendable. The duties of the Chancellor of Justice are enshrined in the law of the Chancellor of Justice and the obligation to report to Parliament once a year is the result of the Constitution. The Chancellor's task spectrum is quite wide and versatile, and hence the size of the report. I will focus on two issues. From 1 January onwards, the Chancellor of Justice shall supervise the public authorities which organise the interception of telephone calls and other conversations, monitor correspondence and collect, process and use personal data in other hidden ways. These institutions include the Police and Border Guard Board, the Tax and Customs Board, the Military Police, the Prisons Department and Prisons of the Ministry of Justice, and the Defence Police and Information Board. The Chancellor of Justice shall check whether all hidden operations are carried out in accordance with the applicable rules. The report shows that during the first half of 2015, the Chancellor of Justice checked the legality of surveillance activities in corruption proceedings at the Police and Border Guard Board and the Defence Police. Verification visits included interviews with their officials and visits to 2013/2014. The 2005 open files. Although no direct and clear irregularities were found during the inspection, there were still cases where the Chancellor of Justice considered that the permit was issued with too light a hand for surveillance activities, limited to declaring the necessity of a surveillance operation without giving clear reasons as to the specific circumstances of the request or granting of an authorisation or extension. Yes, maybe there was no direct violation of the law, but giving permission for an easy pursuit is already a hard enough statement in the Chancellor of Justice's report. This is a highly sensitive issue and I fully agree with the Chancellor that monitoring in this area must be effective, systematic and active. I dare say that the current monitoring system, where the main controller was only the committee, did not justify itself, for objective and subjective reasons. As an objective reason, the small size and subjective nature of the Commission's team is certainly the fact that the committees have always been led by representatives of the coalition party. I hope that Mrs Madis will really be willing to engage in this area in depth and that there will be enough people on her team who know how to keep an eye on this area and respond at the right time. This area is still new in the work of the Chancellor of Justice. I would remind you that such a right and obligation were imposed on him only at the beginning of this year. Mrs Madise has been in office for a few months, too, but I believe that the inclusion of the Chancellor of Justice among those who supervise it will improve the situation. We all remember how Prime Minister Ansip publicly announced in 2012 that politicians and businessmen expect them all to be eavesdropped. It shouldn't be like that. I therefore recommend that the Chancellor also communicate more with the public when dealing with this issue. As I have already mentioned, this is a rather sensitive issue, and in this case the situation must not only be, but also look fair, just and equally understandable to everyone. It is commendable that the Chancellor draws the attention in his report to the problems of legislation and, for some time, looks at the issue of cluster laws. I quote from the report: 'The Riigikogu has left the possibility, in justified exceptional cases, of abandoning the full examination of the intention to draw up a draft law. The experience of recent years shows that this exception has become rather a rule when dealing with legislative changes with a significant economic and social impact. ' This is exactly what the opposition has repeatedly spoken to the government coalition in this Chamber and has reproached. What we have said has still been of no use, I hope that what the Chancellor of Justice has said will be more effective. If not, consideration should be given to amending the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act with an section that prohibits the resolution of questions in different areas within the framework of a single draft law. It was once written in our home and working order, for some reason it's been taken out of there. And as an option, I also see a referral to the Supreme Court if necessary. Of course, discussions on administrative reform, electoral laws, the border treaty, refugees and also on heralding are also relevant. I am aware that the role of the Chancellor of Justice is to give an opinion on acts that create a right that has already been adopted, but the more Parliament will involve the Chancellor of Justice in discussions at earlier stages and ask for his views, the wiser. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U104	Thank you. And now I would like to ask for a chair from the Social Democratic Party of Heljo Pikhof. Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Chancellor! The Chancellor of Justice is an independent official whose task it is to ensure that the laws in force in Estonia comply with the Constitution and that the fundamental rights and freedoms of our people are protected not only on paper but also in real life and in all kinds of situations. I am pleased to note that the Chancellor of Justice has done this task well. As a Social Democrat, I believe that the main prerequisite for the successful work of the Chancellor of Justice is a human-centred approach to all problems, an attempt to delve into those problems which are not directly part of the Chancellor of Justice's duties, but which hurt our people's sense of justice and are therefore socially important. Looking at the wide spectrum of relations that the Chancellor of Justice deals with every day in all areas of life, it stands out that a large number of problems have been solved satisfactorily for years. And even if they try to change something, it often brings about a new problem that the legislator has to face. An everlasting issue is the quality of legislation, which in many cases does not meet society's expectations and creates situations that are incompatible with the Constitution. In this respect, the legislator must increase its capacity and recognise its mistakes and omissions. But not just legislation, and the legislator's actions are not the source of problems. At least as important is compliance with the law and the general legal awareness of our society. At the end of the day, it should recede not only to the law-abiding but also to the rights and freedoms of other individuals and to the conduct of others that respects and is reasonable. However, this is a dialectical problem, an incessant struggle between good and bad, where every influence is inevitably counterproductive. In the context of today's activity review, I will look at some aspects that were most disturbing. We learned that during the eight months of 2015, the Chancellor of Justice initiated a total of 97 procedures that directly concerned children's rights, including the children themselves turning to the Chancellor of Justice to defend their rights on four occasions. These are thought - provoking numbers that show disregard for the weakest and most vulnerable. The number of cases of mental and physical abuse of children is an indicator that must not be left unresponsive. Taking responsibility on this issue should increase the obligation for everyone, more specifically laid down in the new Child Protection Act, to notify the child in need of assistance on the child protection telephone or to the child protection officer of the local government, where appropriate to the police, who have a legal basis to intervene and, where possible, to provide assistance. At the same time, it should be noted that Estonia still has a long way to go to guarantee children's rights. As Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I am thinking in particular of sexual crime against children. Although the Supreme Court declared detention after punishment unconstitutional, the court considers it possible to tighten the conditions for post-punitive conduct control if necessary. In the case of sexual offenders, restrictions on the choice of residence can be considered and, in certain cases, compulsory treatment, participation in therapy or electronic surveillance cannot be excluded. The second problem that remains to be dealt with concerns the restriction of the child's freedom in institutions providing rehabilitation services. There is still no legal basis for restricting the child's freedom in an institution providing rehabilitation services against the will of the child. There are currently two closed institutions in Estonia, one in Tallinn and one in Jõhvi, where rehabilitation services are provided for children with behavioural and addictive problems. In terms of fundamental rights, the main problem is that children are directed to private institutions to receive rehabilitation services on the basis of both the decisions of the Junior Commission and the referrals of their local self-government units. However, the law does not give minors' committees or local authorities the right to restrict the freedom of children for the purpose of referring them to rehabilitation services. Basically, children's freedom is restricted without legal basis. This is unacceptable and requires urgent regulation. Organisations for studying in these institutions are also problematic. In Tallinn and Jõhvi, training takes place in small classes and this kind of organisation requires a recommendation from the advisory committee. At the same time, children's abilities and previous learning experiences are very different, which means that the conditions for directing small classes are not met for all. In other words, the Advisory Committee cannot recommend all children. However, if there is no recommendation for the child, he or she will not be funded in a small class. The centres carry out child security checks, lock children in the separation room, limit their communication, check children's correspondence and the content of messages sent by phone, oblige children to take samples when they return to the centre from home. According to the staff of the centres, these restrictions are essential for the success of rehabilitation and similar restrictions have been implemented by the institutions for many years. However, there is still no legal basis for implementing such restrictions in security centres, despite the fact that the Chancellor of Justice has repeatedly pointed out this problem since 2009. There are also problems in shelters and replacement homes, but I am not going to describe them any further. In my speech, I limited myself to a few very narrow problems, but crucial to shaping our future. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on all of you to keep the rights of the child in focus so that every child's well-being is guaranteed in our country. Finally, I congratulate the Chancellor of Justice for his good cooperation with the political groups and committees of the Riigikogu. The Social Democrats hope that this cooperation will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U106	Thank you. Now I would like to ask my colleague, Kalle Laanet, from the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U107	Thank you very much, manager. Can I have six minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U108	Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Chancellor of Justice! It's not quite normal for someone to give a round of applause in this hall after a report. But this is an assessment of how you answered all these difficult questions in simple Estonian, so I too bowed down. However, I would like to bring to you the three and a half observations that I made on the basis of my report and during the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. First of all, the Chancellor of Justice's criticism of the implementation of the 100-day action plan. I agree that if the impact of rapid-paced changes is not sufficiently assessed, standards with harmful effects may be born. However, this criticism should undoubtedly apply not only to the legislator but also to the executive. Good legislative practice applies to representatives of both branches of power. What makes me indignant as a member of the Riigikogu and chairman of a long-term commission is that ministries very often initiate drafts in the final period of Riigikogu membership, when there is no time left for their thorough processing. We should ask ourselves what we can do better in this regard. Perhaps we can agree in the coalition and in Parliament as a whole that the executive power, and we ourselves here, will start initiating proceedings earlier, so that it does not exactly remain at the end of the membership. The same principle can also be communicated by the chairman of the committee to ministers in his field. Another observation is about the Estonian-Russian border agreement. We had a good opportunity yesterday to listen to the Chancellor of Justice's review in a smaller round of the Constitutional Committee sitting, where, among other things, the question of the constitutionality of the proposed Estonian-Russian border treaty arose. The Chancellor of Justice made it clear that, in his opinion, our Constitution allows an Estonian-Russian border agreement to be concluded. I think it is important to stress that the withdrawal of the Russian Federation's signature from the 2005 border agreement has forced us to seek a satisfactory compromise solution on both sides. This is exactly what the proposed border agreement is, a compromise which does not result in the Tartu Peace Treaty being mentioned, but at the same time it contains an explicit clause that the border agreement regulates exclusively matters relating to the state border. Estonia will not give up its national continuity by concluding a border agreement. And the border relations regulated by the treaty are better than unregulated relations. Thirdly, members of the Riigikogu belong to the councils of state-owned companies. According to the current Chancellor of Justice, the membership of the national company councils is justified in certain cases, but he stressed that the principle of separation of powers must be guaranteed. According to him, this can be ensured through the appointment procedure. In my opinion, a possible conflict with the principle of separation of powers would help to prevent or at least mitigate the rule that the Minister must obtain the consent of the relevant committee of the Riigikogu to appoint a member of the Riigikogu to the council of a state-owned company. If Parliament does not agree, the executive must propose a new candidate for a Council member to the Commission. This would help to make the decision-making process for the appointment of members more transparent and avoid a situation in which the Minister alone appoints members to the councils. However, I agree with the Chancellor of Justice that the most important thing in this matter is to ensure the quality of the management of the state's companies. Soviet members must act with the care of a proper entrepreneur and the Riigikogu must be prepared to seek such solutions. Last but not least: I agree with the Chancellor of Justice's view that criminal populism must be very cautious in the legislative body. Behind this word, different people see different cases. Once again, I thank the Chancellor of Justice for his good cooperation with the political groups and committees of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U110	Thank you. Now, on behalf of my colleague Andres Herkel, on behalf of the Estonian Free Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U111	Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We will undoubtedly join in thanking you for this presentation and for your questions and answers. It is important to highlight a few aspects here. In fact, first of all, it is very sympathetic that this presentation gave the impression that the office of the Chancellor of Justice is not a developer of abstract law disputes in offices somewhere, but that it is indeed going out in institutions, psychiatric clinics, etc. This is extremely important and will help to bring the work of the Chancellor of Justice to the level of specific people, specific problems in life. There are certainly many of them in Estonia and at very different levels. It seems to us that you have begun with the most vulnerable, and that is the right approach in itself. As far as the areas which the Chancellor of Justice has pointed out are concerned, one important has already been stopped. This is about education, which sounded quite powerful even when the Chancellor of Justice came up with his initiative. Yes, there may be different views, but this initiative is indeed good to bring this discussion to a new level. Last night Minister Arto Aas responded at length to questions from members of the Riigikogu in this area. One of the things he said was that he did not see educational issues being brought from the municipalities to the national level as a solution. But if, in the right distant perspective, we analyse where our reforms and reform attempts have stuck, there has indeed been one of the main problems that there has not been the capacity to chew through the problems of the school network and the local governments together. We'll see how it goes now. The second half of this series of questions concerns access to education. I generally don't like the term "elite schools." Let's just say that there are schools in Estonia that have a very dignified tradition and have a pretty high level of self-consciousness as a result. Some schools may feel a little distracted by this problem. The problem is not that we have such schools, but that the whole school network in all parts of Estonia is not able to provide equally good education. Parents often do not trust to put their children in a school near home. That's definitely a problem. Some of the funding of political parties. This question went through here with a very subtle hint that the Commission has, as if, raised its hands in some places and did not discuss these problems itself, but sent them to the courts. I'm sure there's a problem here to think about. The fact that such a Commission exists is, in itself, positive compared to the time when it did not exist. I immediately remembered what the audit of the National Audit Office said about the explosive use of information funds in local governments before the local elections. Indeed, I would very much like the Riigikogu to deal with these problems rather than discover one day again that things are not going to work in the most beautiful way. Finally, it is only left to accept the great conclusion that the law is an instrument. Law doesn't have to be a purpose. At this point, I am looking at the coalition ambassadors in particular at stopping the proliferation of legislation in all committees is primarily your business. It is up to you to put this critical filter between us, because the opposition may not always succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U112	There is no further wish for negotiations, so I will stop dealing with this issue. Thank you to the Chancellor of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U113	Let's go to the next item. The first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu on 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' submitted by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union begins. The rapporteur on behalf of the initiators is Priit Sibul. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U114	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu and the Chairman Kalle Laanet and the Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, Mikhail Stalnukhin, for getting this bill to this hall so quickly. The Bureau put it on the agenda as soon as possible. The bill is quite simple and prosaic. Jaak Aaviksoo Due to the end of the term of office of a member of the Riigikogu, his status as a member of the special committee on the control of the state budget also ended. That is why the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica propose that Mr Metsoja be appointed as the main member of this committee instead of Mr Aaviksoo and his alternate member, Mr Viktoria Ladynskaja, be appointed. That's all for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U115	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. The rapporteur for the Constitutional Commission is Mikhail Stalnukhin. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U116	Mr. Chairman! This draft decision was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 15 September. After a brief discussion, the following decisions were taken: We propose that the draft be sent to the plenary agenda by 22 September, i.e. today, to conclude the first reading and set the deadline for submitting amendments one hour after the end of today's plenary session of the Riigikogu. We decided to appoint Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur, and we propose that the draft be sent to second reading when the first reading is completed, by Thursday 24 September 2015, and put to the final vote that day. All decisions were taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U117	Any questions for the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The first reading of the draft decision has been completed on a proposal from the commission of directors. I shall set the deadline for tabling amendments to the draft within one hour of the end of today's sitting, i.e. 22 September at 14 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U118	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act, initiated by the members of the Riigikogu Arno Silla, Henn Põlleaasa, Mart Helme, Martin Helme, Raivo Põldaru and Uno Kaskpeit. Uno Kaskpeit will present a report on behalf of the initiators of the bill. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U119	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We have submitted a draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act. The Police and Border Guard Act makes such an amendment that § 101 (1) is amended and worded as follows: 'A person who has at least 20 years of age as a police service shall have the right to retire for the years he has earned at the age of 55. ' The reason for this amendment is that, pursuant to § 101 (1) of the current Police and Border Guard Act, a police officer will be entitled to pension for the years he has earned if he has been in service for at least five consecutive years immediately before his pensionable age, i.e. he or she becomes 55 years old. The draft provides that a police officer will be entitled to a pension for the years he or she has earned, even if he or she has left the police service before his or her pensionable age, but he or she has the necessary status as a police officer. This provision would take effect on the same basis as provided for in the Border Guard Act before 2007 and as provided for by the Defence Forces Service Act in force. With this bill, we will create a level playing field for police and defence personnel to retire. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U120	Wait, wait, waiter! Please come back! Any questions for the initiators' waitress? There are and they need to be answered. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U121	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! It can be said that this number of beneficiaries may hypothetically reach even the times of the police. How large a group of people are we talking about how many people could be affected by this change and what does it mean for the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U122	Here's the story that there was no five-year claim at the time of the police, at which time there was a one-year claim. This five-year claim arose when the border guards were struck with the police. I don't even know what it was for, probably for political purposes, to suppress people's dissatisfaction.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U123	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U124	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I will continue with my colleague's question because the other half of it has not been answered. You write in the explanatory memorandum that becoming the law of this bill does not entail any additional costs for the state budget. How do you explain that? You extend the range of potential beneficiaries of a special pension, but there is no cost.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U125	Why am I expanding? I'm not expanding. This change would apply from now on and to those who are now in the service. It's a matter of equality between the armed forces and the police. What is the difference between these services? Just as before 2007 the border guard service did not have this requirement for a period of five years.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U126	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U127	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good answer! I will then ask for the third time how many people this bill concerns.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U128	I don't know what to say. We need to get this data out of the police department. But I did ask the Minister how many people have been released from work and made redundant because of lack of compliance with educational requirements. The Minister's reply was that the personnel programmes of the Police and Border Guard Board did not allow the extraction of this data.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U129	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U130	Thank you very much. Good waitress! You mentioned the distinction. I want to know what you think is the difference between rescuers and police and border guards. There's a big difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U131	I will answer that question with a question. Tell me one country where the rescuers have special pensions. I don't know any of these around. But the police, the border guards and the Defence Forces have special pensions in all countries. You can't really compare these things to each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U132	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U133	Good waitress! I did not understand a little bit about your statement when you said that there are no extra costs, that you mean those who are going to work today, not those who are working today or who have finished working yesterday. Please explain what you mean by this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U134	I mean, with this bill, the police and the border guards are going to retire on exactly the same basis as the militia. Why has such inequality been created in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U135	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U136	How, then, can you say that there will be no extra cost to the state budget? After all, all those who have retired under the law in force have a legitimate expectation that they will be compensated for what they have been deprived of because there was a different procedure in the meantime.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U137	For those who have already retired, there will be no problem at all. There is no need to compensate them for anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U138	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Am I correct to understand that, if a person has to have 20 years of service under the applicable service law, he must be at least 55 years old and a member of the organization, according to the idea of your bill, this third part will fall away? No longer need to be a member of the organisation if the other two points are fulfilled.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U141	That was the answer. Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U142	Thank you very much. It's a good thing you expressed your position on the rescuers. But as far as the neighbors are concerned, can you specify the pension characteristics of the Swedish border guard?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U143	There is no border guard in Sweden, as far as I know, and it's always been there with the police. But I don't really know the differences between the Swedes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U144	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U145	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, can you explain why this difference between the treatment of defence forces and police and border guards has been introduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U146	This should be asked by those gentlemen and ladies who took part in the drafting of the law in 2010 and adopted it. At that time, I was no longer in the ministry or in the work.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U147	Now the questions are over. Thank you to the founding waitress. The rapporteur of the Commission is Raivo Aeg, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U148	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! At its meeting on 14 September, the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act, initiated on 2 June by Henn Põllea, Arno Silla, Martin Helme, Raivo Põldaru, Uno Kaskpeit and Mart Helme. 48. Apart from Küllik's Hatter, who was then on an external mission, all the other members of the Commission took part in the meeting. Advisor to the Ministry of the Interior Väino Linde and Legal Adviser to the Human Resources Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, Svetlana Master, were also invited to the discussion. It was decided to appoint Raivo Aeg, i.e. I, as rapporteur for the Commission. According to the draft submitted, § 101 (1) of the PPVS, or Police and Border Guard Act, is intended to amend it to read as follows: 'A person who has at least 20 years of service in a police service shall, at the age of 55, be entitled to pension for the years he has earned. ' According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft act, such an amendment would reduce the unequal treatment of police officers and military personnel in the years they have earned, i.e. in receiving a special pension. The drafters explain what they mean by unequal treatment: Pursuant to § 101 (1) of the Police and Border Guard Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2010, a police officer shall be entitled to a pension for the years he has earned, at the age of 55, if he has previously served for at least 20 years as a police officer, of which he has worked as a police officer for at least five years immediately before retirement. Paragraph 206 (1) of the Defence Forces Service Act states, however, that a person who has 20 years of active service can remain on active service pension at the age of 50. The Defence Forces Service Act does not therefore require direct service before retirement, nor does it differ from police service and active military service to retirement age: 55 years in one case, 50 years in the other. It must be said that the Commission's debate was lively and nuanced. Special pensions, as such, were discussed at all, until it was considered that they could be extended. As a result of the consultation, the Commission took the view that for certain professions, in particular the Defence Forces, Police and Border Guard Services, where physical capacity is essential for the successful performance of tasks and objectives, a special pension system is generally necessary. As a result, the age requirement for entitlement to a special pension is considerably lower than for a general old-age pension. The purpose of the law is for a person to work as a police officer until his or her special retirement age is completed and not to leave the service years earlier. The requirement for standing is rather supplementary and more specific so as not to give rise to the possibility of earning a special pension in an unreasonable short period of time. In its opinion on the draft law, the Government of the Republic also explained that it is necessary to analyse the sustainability of the entire pension system, including the special pension system, on the basis of which proposals for the organisation of the system could be submitted in March 2016. The OECD and the European Commission have also pointed out the need to apply the pension system to the economic and demographic circumstances of the country and also to link it to an increase in life expectancy in order to limit early retirement. It is important to note that the draft explanatory memorandum states that the implementation of the legislative amendment would not impose an additional burden on the state budget. However, this argument has not been substantiated by the initiators. At the same time, according to the Police and Border Guard Board, 1337 police officers are currently employed, who have already fulfilled the requirement of 20 years' service, while the age requirement has not yet been fulfilled. They could leave the police today, and as the years go by, if they were 55 years old, they would receive a special pension from the police. In addition, there are many former police officers who have left the service before their respective age, but who have completed the 20-year period of service and who, if the law enters into force, would have the automatic right to receive a special police pension afterwards. Another question is whether it would become available from the date of entry into force of the law, or whether it should also compensate for the loss of pension, since they had reached their intended age, even though they had left the service by then. Following the above discussion, the Commission put to the vote the first reading of the draft proposal. The proposal was supported by 3 members of the Commission and 6 were opposed, with no abstentions. The Committee on Legal Affairs therefore proposes that the Riigikogu plenary assembly reject the draft 48 at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U149	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U150	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, The drafters have emphasised in the explanatory memorandum and their representative also stressed from the speaker that the aim of the draft is to reduce the inequalities between police and defence forces. Was there a separate discussion in the Commission meeting on this point and the reasons for this distinction?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U151	Thank you. The Commission did not address this issue of inequality in depth, as it is two separate legal acts: the Defence Service Act has entered into force and we had a draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act under discussion. There was no, yes, a separate, in-depth debate on whether it should be counterbalanced, for example, by amending the Defence Service Act, in the same way by introducing a direct service requirement before going into a special pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U152	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You mentioned the indicative number of people who are currently working at the police organization that could be affected by this change. But it was not mentioned how many people outside the organization would be affected. Did you ask, for example, the Police and Border Guard Board or the Ministry of the Interior what would cost the state budget half the cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U154	No, we did not have such information, and the Government of the Republic did not communicate that information in its opinion. It is certainly possible to calculate this for those who are in the service today and who have fulfilled the requirement of 20 years of service, but the age requirement has not been fulfilled. At the same time, I imagine that this may be relatively complicated for those who left the police service before their age requirement was fulfilled but who, at the same time, had fulfilled the requirement for seniority and who, today, have turned 55 years old. As we know, before 2010, the age requirement was 50 years. The opinion of the Government of the Republic, which is expected to be based on a great deal of the opinion expressed by the Ministry of the Interior, also states that it would be technically relatively complicated to start carrying out these calculations afterwards and to bring entitlement to a special pension on the same basis. These bases have changed over the years. According to the Ministry of the Interior, the introduction of a ranking system in the police in 2010 and its equalisation with a system of earlier titles would cost disproportionately much of the time and other resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U155	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. Uno Kaskpeit, please, on behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U156	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, The first task of submitting this amendment was to create equality between those in the Defence Forces and those serving in the police and border guards. These services are linked to several risks in the same way, but the conditions for retirement vary. I'll give you a brief overview of the history of the problem. The Police Act required that there should be one year of continuous service before retirement and retirement only in the service. This principle, the direct retirement from the service, has come to us, in a word, over the Soviet era, and this mentality has survived to this day. The situation of people has only been aggravated. When the police were established in the Republic of Estonia, the police were called police and the conditions for retirement were transferred from the Police Act to the Police Act. There is no such requirement in the Defence Forces to date and there was no such requirement in border guards until 2007. With the establishment of the Police and Border Guard Act as of 1 January 2010, this requirement of five years' direct service suddenly arose. More specifically, you can only retire directly from the service and before that there must have been an uninterrupted service for the last five years. This requirement, especially that of the last five years of service, provides an opportunity to manipulate those in the ministry. The Ministry of the Interior's reply to the amendment was full of a number of rather demagogic arguments. For example, it was claimed that the requirement of being in the ministry over the last five years was imposed so that people would not leave the service before the age of 50 or 55. First argument: This would create a shortage of trained workers, since many would leave the service for another job if they completed 20 or 25 years of service. This argument has been biased because if there were a great lack of trained people and their departure, there would have been no concentration of trained and educated people over the last five years. I dare say that over the last five years hundreds of such people have been made redundant among police and border guards. Second argument: this creates an additional burden on the state budget because, if there is no requirement to be in service for the last five years, people who have a career of 20 or more years will apply for a pension after the age of 50 or 55. I myself served at the border guard until 2007 and do not remember anyone leaving the service before the age of 50 in order to claim a pension at the age of 50. People had been trained and educated, and no one thought to leave the service until their 50th birthday. I have many former colleagues, acquaintances and friends in the Defence Service. I have not heard of a mass departure from the Defence Forces before the age of 50 or 55 in order to come for a pension if the prescribed age is reached. I think that's what two generals sitting in our midst might say about the Defence Forces. I am sure that this demand for the last five years arose in the Police and Border Guard Act specifically to suppress any possible opposition to unification... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U157	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U158	...by serving border guards and police officers. This requirement provides an opportunity, as I said before, to manipulate people during the last five years of service who dare to say the truth about the disorder in this joint institution. I think the problem is the Minister and the Ministry. It is not possible to create a normal working environment in its own establishment so that people would like to work there. The events of the last week, when three staff members committed suicide, also confirm the serious disturbance at the Police and Border Guard Board. One of them even got free in the weapons room on vacation, took a gun and shot himself. It shows that there's something wrong with this joint facility, and it's on the management side. So, ladies and gentlemen, think before you press the button whether you want the inequality to continue in two similar services or whether we will put an end to it and create the same conditions for these people. If the Minister cannot manage his field, he should resign. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U159	There are no more requests for negotiations, I will close the negotiations. Honourable Riigikogu, the commission has proposed to reject 48 at first reading. That is what we need to vote on, and we will begin with this preparation. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 48 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 48 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 28 against and 2 abstentions. Draft 48 falls out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U160	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia by the members of the Riigikogu, Aadu Musta, Andrei Novikov, Dmitri Dmitriev, Enn Eesmaa, Erki Savisaare, Heimar Leng, Jaanus Karilaidi, Jüri Ratas, Kadri Simson, Kersti Sarapuu, Mailis Repsi, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Martin Repinski, Mikhail Korbi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Märt Sults, Olga Ivanova, Priit Toobali, Rein Ratas, Siret Kotka, Tarmo Tamme, Toomas Vitsut, Valeri Korb, Viktor Vassiljev and Vladimir Velman. Priit Toobal, member of the Riigikogu, will make a presentation on behalf of the initiators of the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U161	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me start by quoting: 'Only weak political parties with no public confidence are in favour of electing the Head of State in Parliament. ' This quote belongs to the former minister, the former head of the Supreme Court and the former top political politician of the Reform Party, Märt Rask. I think it's a very good thing to say. The political parties who fear the people and the opinion of the people do not support the election of the President directly. The Centre Party Group trusts the people and the people trust the Centre Party and we support the election of the President by the people. On 6 May this year, the members of the Centre Party initiated a draft law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia to amend the electoral order of the President of the Republic. The members of the Centre Party have started a similar draft earlier in this Chamber and today we are discussing the issue of direct election by the Head of State for the twelfth time. But now the bill itself. The purpose of the draft is to create an additional possibility for the citizens of the Republic of Estonia to exercise the highest state power by legitimizing the direct election of the President of the Republic. The election of the President of the Republic directly by the people meets the expectations of society and gives the people an additional opportunity to participate in matters and decisions that are important to the state, thus bringing the people closer to the state. According to public opinion polls, the majority of citizens support the idea of direct election of the President. The debate on this has been ongoing since the drafting of the current Constitution. This idea has been supported by several political parties and members of the Riigikogu throughout the ages. In 1995, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposed to the Government of the Republic to convene a Committee on Legal Expertise on the Constitution, which was to analyse in depth the need to amend the Constitution in connection with the introduction of the institution directly electing the President. The Commission worked for almost two years. The result was, on the one hand, an analysis of external experts and, on the other hand, a report by our distinguished state-rights scientists, Rait Maruste, Eerik-Juhan Truuvälja, Märt Rask and Jüri Raidla. In general, external experts suggested that Estonia consider the possibility of direct electing the President. The legal expertise of the Constitutional Commission was also proposed as an alternative to point out the direct election mechanism of the President to our constitution and to raise technical problems in the current Constitution for the election of the President. In 2001, President Meri started a draft law amending the Constitution in the Riigikogu, which wanted to change the system for electing the President so that the President would be elected directly by the people in the future. This initiative was supported by President Arnold Rüütel in his speech in the Riigikogu. This initiative has been followed by a number of others, but so far the legislator has not considered it necessary to allow the people to choose their own heads of state. We believe in the wisdom of the Estonian people to choose the head of state worthy of Estonia, and we want the Riigikogu to surrender this right to the people. By changing the Constitution on such an important issue, we consider it important and stress the need to seek political consensus. Adopting this bill as a law would mean, for the first time in the history of statehood, that the Head of State would be explained according to the will of the entire nation. This is an amendment to one of the elements of the Constitution; it does not change either the constitutional organisation or the parliamentary mechanism. No change in the competence of the President of the Republic is foreseen in the draft submitted either. According to § 163 of Chapter XV of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the draft law amending the Constitution is discussed in three readings in the Riigikogu, with at least three months between the first and second readings and at least one month between the second and third readings. The manner in which the Constitution is amended shall be decided at third reading. As initiators of the draft act, we propose that the Constitution be amended by two successive formations of the Riigikogu. Paragraph 1 (3) of the draft law amends § 79 of the Constitution as a result of the introduction of the institution directly electing the President of the Republic. First, the principle of free elections is laid down, which must meet three basic conditions for free elections. Elections must be general, uniform and direct, as is the case with Riigikogu elections. The requirement of secrecy of voting is also unchanged according to the draft. Due to the abolition of the right of the Riigikogu, the right to appoint candidates for the President of the Republic is also amended. According to the draft, the party or at least 10000 citizens of the Republic of Estonia with the right to appoint a candidate for President of the Republic shall have the right to vote. The proposal to require the signature of 10000 citizens with a right to vote for nomination is a result of the current constitutional practice. The same requirement arose from § 4 (3) of the Act implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia in the election of the President in 1992. It was also proposed by President Meri when he handed over the corresponding draft to Parliament in 2001. The draft establishes the general principles governing the election of the President of the Republic. The draft stipulates that a candidate who has given more than half of the votes cast shall be declared elected. In addition, regulation shall be given in case of failure to obtain the required majority if a second round of votes is held between the two candidates with the highest votes. There is also a need to lay down in law a situation in which several candidates will obtain a second result in the first round of voting. In such a case, the draft provides that the oldest of the candidates who have obtained equal numbers of votes will be admitted to the second round. On the basis of the nature of the vote, the candidate by whom the most votes were cast shall be declared elected in the second ballot. This sets out, as in the first round, an age advantage for candidates who have received an equal number of votes, which means that they are again recognised as older than candidates. The proposed system excludes the possibility that the President will not be elected in the course of the election, as a qualified majority is no longer required in the second round. In accordance with the new procedure for the election of the President of the Republic provided for in the Constitution, which provides for the direct election of the President of the Republic, the President of the Republic's Election Act will establish more precise arrangements, as is the case with the existing regulation. The amendment will increase the cost of the state budget, but it will allow additional costs to be taken into account when preparing the state budget for 2021. Several direct election opponents have said that direct election of the Head of State would also require a change in the role of the President and would not be compatible with the parliamentary regime. I would also like to emphasise that no change in the President's powers or any transition from parliamentary order to presidential leadership will lead to the draft that we have tabled. Let me quote once again here, this time the words of today's Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu: 'The mechanical correlation between it, as if the directly elected President had more constitutional power than the elected President, the Legal Expertise Commission did not identify in its material. " Reinsalu said this ten years ago when he supported the direct elections, one might say, was one of its fiery advocates. Reinsalu has now signed a government position that is contrary to a man's earlier opinion. The tasks and responsibilities set out in the current Constitution are also ideally suited to the elected Head of State of the people. How one or the other person can perform his duties is already a matter of his own and certainly depends on the particular woman or man who is on this post. It should not be feared that the president elected directly by the people without parliamentary mediation may have greater authority and maybe he will then be less willing to cooperate with Parliament, as his re-election will no longer depend on the positions of the parliamentary groups. You shouldn't be afraid of that. We should not be afraid of the heads of state who are brave and have no hesitation in their right to block the cluster, crack or populist laws being pushed through in Parliament by a road roll tactic. If the President with the mandate of the people urges the Riigikogu to work more and better and disciplines Parliament, including the Government Coalition, then I believe that this is only good. Direct election of the President is a European political tradition that is characteristic of a large part of the countries of the European Union. Of the 28 countries of the European Union, 18 are the President's institution, 12 of which are elected by the President's people. If we compare the procedure for electing our Head of State with that of other European countries, we will find another quite significant difference. This difference, which is unique to us, is the transition of the electoral right from one decision-making body to another. If Parliament cannot elect the President, the decision-making decision shall be taken by the electoral body. You don't do that anywhere else. The Heads of State shall elect either a people, a parliament or a specially formed electoral body. Not in the European cultural space, at least, there is no such messy system as we really do not have elsewhere. My colleague Aadu Black has compared our current mixed option with calling in the insolvency administrator: Parliament cannot do it, so let the electoral body choose. Let me finish with the quote. This quote belongs to President Lennart Meri, who, when he handed over the draft law on the direct election of the President in 2001, said: 'You will have a draft law in your hands in a moment, which gives the Estonian people the right, which is the majority of the democratic peoples of Europe. ' Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U162	Questions for the waitress. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U163	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! It did not make sense to me that if you do not like this mixed option that you are using, of course, it may have shortcomings, and you are speaking here very strongly as a supporter of parliamentary state construction, then why do you not propose that the election of the President be brought to Parliament in full? This, too, is a fully acceptable and multi-faceted system. The development of the question could be whether the current presidential elections in Estonia have given us very problematic or very bad results.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U164	Thank you. The option you have proposed to abolish the mixed system and to come before Parliament by electing the President alone is undoubtedly better than the current one. As I said, the countries of the European Union, where there is an institution such as the President, are 18, and 12 of them are elected by the President's people. I think we could and should be among the countries of the European Union that trust their people and do not doubt their ability to choose heads of state. If the previous elections have not shown bad results, this does not mean that the following results may not be bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U165	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! The election of the President directly gives the President a very broad political mandate from the people. A situation in which the President has a strong mandate but, in fact, relatively narrow powers can create additional tensions in the political system. We have also seen this in some countries where direct elections have taken place, such as Finland and the Czech Republic. Here's my question. Why do you not want to review the President's powers, too, and stress that we must continue to have a parliamentary system, while at the same time strengthening the President's mandate and creating the expectation that the President should, like, do what he cannot do?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U167	Thank you. As I said in the introductory report, our group finds and the initiators of the draft law consider that the tasks of the President of the Republic, currently set out in Chapter V of the Constitution, are also perfectly suited to the directly elected President of the people. We are again comparing ourselves with the countries of the European Union where the people elect the President. Here is an example from a very close distance to Lithuania. The President of Lithuania is elected by the people, Lithuania is a parliamentary republic. But the duties, duties and opportunities of the Lithuanian Head of State to intervene in political processes are comparable and comparable to the duties and duties of the Estonian Head of State in the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, until then that both the President of the Republic of Estonia and the Lithuanian Head of State have the right to reject the laws adopted in Parliament if they are considered by the President to be contrary to the Constitution. In fact, as I have emphasised, it is also very important how one or the other of the officials will fill out his or her duties. Renewed Estonia has had three presidents. They have all played a very different role, and I think that the authority of one or the other has certainly affected both the legislator and the government and the government coalition in different ways. So I think it's very important to have a particular person, the way he's makin' his assignments.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U168	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! There is usually one line at the end of the draft explanatory memorandum that deals with costs. How much could this legislative amendment cost the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U170	Thank you. If you look at this bill carefully, you will see that this line is also written here, unlike the previous Central Party drafts on this subject. If this draft becomes a law, then there will be an opportunity to elect the President directly only in 2021, not earlier, because we propose that the Constitution be amended by two successive parliamentary formations. Since, for 2021, neither I nor the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, nor certainly the electoral committee, can say how much it costs to organise a general election, it is difficult to write a specific amount into the draft law. But we admit that the costs of the general elections that will be directly elected will undoubtedly come with. At present, they could be compared to the costs of parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U171	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U172	In the sixth issue of the Riigikogu Toimetised in 2002, I wrote an article in which I thought, with sufficient clarity, I explained why the President was no longer needed in the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. I have not understood whether you have read it or not, because a number of your arguments suggest that you are not familiar with it. The problem is that the president is rather an aristocrat with castles, chefs, adjutants, imagers, etc. But can you name one of the functions of the President of the Republic of Estonia today? The President of the Riigikogu, and when it comes to vetoing, the Chancellor of Justice? I think this institution has lived up to its time. I'm glad the boys agreed to be president, but that's enough! It doesn't make any sense anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U173	Thank you. I know your views, and I have also read the materials you have referred to when preparing this bill. I do not share your position, nor do I share the position of your party, which has ever been put forward as if it were to reconcile the office of President and Prime Minister. I do not share this view either, I do not think that is a good idea. [[Interjection.]] One of the owners of your party, Rain Rosimannus, has come up with this proposal. But as for your wish that I should mention at least one function that should not be given to anyone other than the President of the Republic of Estonia, I think that the same vetoing you have mentioned is the function. I don't think the Chancellor of Justice has enough authority to carry out this task.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U174	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U175	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good performer! When I read the material, I had a question. Rein Lang, the current member of the Board of the Reform Party, has said, as the head of the expert group of the Constitutional Assembly, that there is no possibility or any arguments to reject the direct election. Jüri Raidla has expressed the same clear position. Do you agree with poet Hando Runnel, who as a member of the Assembly said, "If we rule out direct selection, we will castrate our people. ' We're in the 12th castration test. Are you okay with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U176	Thank you, my good colleague. Yeah, I agree with you 100%.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U177	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U178	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Who would be the candidate for the Central Party in the next election if the President were elected directly?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U179	Thank you. I assumed such a question would come. This is not a bill of any particular presidential candidate, and I very much hope that it will not be a bill of any particular party's presidential candidate. The Centre Party has not even discussed the question of the candidate for the next presidential election, let alone the elections that will take place in 2021.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U180	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U181	You got it a little wrong again. I mean, what a veto. The Chancellor of Justice does not use a veto, but he brings an action and the action may be brought by anyone, the Chancellor of Justice will do so no more. So it cannot be said that the Chancellor of Justice is too low a position for this. If the current Chancellor of Justice was fit to be the President's advisor, who is vetoing anyway, then I think that in his current position, he should have the capacity to do so more. I want to draw attention to this Nut problem. In certain cases, a very strong president is very dangerous for the country. For example, the moment when Kert was traded for Kõutsi and Lennart Meri knowingly led to the situation that we had two commanders at once. We must thank the good fortune that there was no military conflict at that time. Now, imagine for a moment that the president was directly elected. I am saying that, in the form you are presenting it now, direct elections are very dangerous from the point of view of the Constitution. Is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U182	Thank you. Undoubtedly, a directly elected president is a threat to a government coalition that does not listen to the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U183	Fruit Savisaar-Toomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! I didn't understand an idea in your report. When you described the options for electing a president in European countries, you said there was also a possibility to set up a special electoral body. Now I don't understand. We also have a specially formed electoral body. Why do you distinguish them and say one's not good, but the other's good? We also have a electoral body set up by very specific rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U185	Thank you. In my report, I rather criticised this mixed system. I am very pleased with the option of the people electing the president, as foreseen by this good bill. It is certainly better than a mixed variant to be elected only by Parliament or only by the electoral body, as is the case in Germany or Italy, where Parliament does not intervene in the election of the President or in the activities of the electoral body, where there is a separate electoral body. There are no several rounds that if Parliament fails, the election will go to the elections, just as we have in Estonia. In fact, it is also possible that the electoral body will not elect the President and the election will come back to Parliament and then to the electoral assembly. I criticized that kind of mix-up. Whether it is a pure option, whether it is the people, Parliament or the electoral body, rather than the way we now have it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U186	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U187	Thank you to the manager. Good colleague! Two weeks ago, President Toomas Hendrik Ilves spoke in Parliament. He denounced the government and claimed that he did not like the recent replacement of ministers or the extension of the coalition agreement in this way. Is such conduct appropriate to the President without the mandate of the people? Would it be appropriate for the President to have a mandate for the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U188	Thank you. In expressing a personal position, I think that President Ilves, criticising the internal affairs of one of the government departments at the opening session of Parliament, did not behave correctly. The way a party wants to exchange members in its government team is its exclusive competence and the Head of State should not express his position on this, however incomprehensible it may be, or it considers it pointless. I don't think that's entirely appropriate. But, as I said, much depends on the authority of one or the other official, man or woman who has been elected to this position, at the moment, according to a mechanism such as that provided for in the current constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U189	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! In this debate here, which has actually taken place around the direct election of the President since 1990, one argument has been put forward in order to be in line with Estonian political practices. If we look at Estonia's political history, we will see that the President's 'direct election' has been once throughout this period. This was the first round of the elections in 1992. The 1920 Constitution did not provide for a presidential institution at all; in 1934 a direct election of the State Elder was envisaged, but never carried out, and the 1938 Constitution essentially ruled out the direct election of the President. Should we not, like the so-called custom that the President has not been directly elected so far, still stick to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U191	Thank you. At the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Jüri Adams, who is a member of the Commission, stopped on the same subject and recalled how this process went when the new constitution was put together. There really was one of the most debated questions about whether the President of the Republic should be elected by Parliament or by the people, and since no agreement could be reached, this is the kind of interim option that I have criticised here several times today. I did not say in my presentation that the direct election of the President somehow coincides with Estonia's current political culture. I spoke more about the European Union's political practice and culture and mentioned the figures on how the European Union has behaved when choosing presidents. Today, I do not have any such example, perhaps you do, because you are the Commission's waitress, to be moved back from the election of the President by the people to the election by Parliament. In the Czech Republic the opposite was true: until 2012, the President was elected by the parliament, but then he went directly to the election by the people. I have no other way to put it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-09-22_U192	It's 1:20. The sitting is adjourned. We'll pick up where we left off tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 1:01 p.m.
