ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! Currently 47 members of the Riigikogu are present, 54 are missing. The following members of the government are taking part in the Question Hour of the Government of the Republic: Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu Prime Minister, Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse and Minister of Culture Indrek Saar. By 12 noon yesterday, seven members of the Riigikogu had expressed their wish to ask questions to members of the government. As a result, I will give the debate on each subject an opportunity to put forward two additional questions. Honourable Riigikogu! Since this is our first Question Time, let me briefly recall what this 'two additional questions' means. This means that the person who registered as a questioner yesterday will have the opportunity to submit two additional questions and the other members of the Riigikogu who participate in Question Time will be able to submit two additional questions together. I would also like to remind you that there is one minute to ask the question. I urge you to come forward with your question within one minute! Otherwise, the President of the Riigikogu must do what he does not want to do, perhaps harass the ambassador. I would also remind the members of the government that they have two minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U2	Let's get started. The first question is for the Minister of Justice in the role of Prime Minister Urmas Reinsalu and the questioner is Kadri Simson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U3	Dear Urmas Reinsalu! You are in the hands of the Prime Minister today. In addition to the fact that your party joined the old government coalition, there has also been a new power agreement which includes a number of tax changes, including tax increases. In order for the Reform Party to fulfil its electoral promise and reduce social tax by 1%, you will have to raise a number of other taxes to cover the hole that has arisen. You are planning to increase excise duties on fuel by 14% for diesel from next year and 10% for petrol every three years and 10% for petrol over four years. It can be estimated that in four years, a tank of petrol will cost at least EUR 15 more than today because of increased taxes alone. Do you consider such an increase to be normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U4	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, I wish all members of the Riigikogu congratulations on their first Question Time! It is true that the Government of the Republic has committed itself to maintaining the structural balance of the state budget, as provided for by the basic state budget law. The government plans a number of positive initiatives to implement its policy programme: next year the tax-free income will increase to 170 euros, the home allowance programme will extend to families with three children, child benefit will gradually increase, and the tax-free portion of pensions will increase so that the average pension will be tax-free. To this end, the government association has planned several sources of cover. One of them you mentioned, the general increase in excise duties on motor fuels. The price of motor fuel, apart from taxes, is determined above all by what is happening on the world market. The government's current plan, as you said, is to increase the excise duty on diesel by 14% in 2015 and to do so in the coming years with a 10% step. The increase in petrol duty is generally 10%. It is certainly important that, in the near future, the Ministry of Finance discusses these matters with the business organisations most affected by this change. Of course, all increases in excise duty must also take into account whether and to what extent excise duties are being increased by our neighbouring countries and the situation and consumer behaviour on the fuel market. If the situation so requires, you must be prepared to make adjustments to the plans. The current projected increase in excise duties on fuel is based on this logic that, given the increase in the nominal average wage, people's ability to buy fuel would increase rather than decrease.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U5	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U6	Thank you. Dear Urmas Reinsalu! You rightly mentioned that apart from the tax increase you are planning, it may also happen that world markets may not remain as low as they are today. The Estonian Oil Association has said that if you implement the tax rise plan, in four years' time we will be in a situation where our fuel prices will be higher than in Latvia and Lithuania, and in addition to working in Finland, cars will be refueled in Finland, as the fuel sold in Estonia will become the most expensive in the region. Is this the government's plan to turn Estonia into a new Nordic country by raising prices? Would you mention any other initiatives that bring us closer to the Nordic countries, apart from high fuel prices?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U7	Thank you. Take, for example, the excise rate of a thousand litres of petrol. The excise duty rate in Estonia is 422 euros, and in Finland 681 euros. Looking at the foreseeable step taken by the government as a single source of cover, our excise duty rate should also remain below the current rate of excise duty in Finland in the four-year perspective. But, as I emphasised, of course, in the case of input into an important economic environment such as fuel, it is necessary to take into account whether and to what extent excise duty is being increased by our neighbouring countries, and also to analyse consumer behaviour on the fuel market.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U8	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U9	Thank you. Dear Urmas Reinsalu! The increase in fuel prices is known to lead to price increases in all other areas of life, the appreciation of all goods and services. Thus, in the coming years, the state will not only generate revenue from the rise in excise duty, but it should also have a planned cost. The costs are increasing in rescue services, police, border guards and other areas of life. My question is, in particular, how much cost you have planned to cover the increase in public transport dose by the state because of the price increases.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U10	Thank you. All impacts, both the overall impact on consumer prices and the additional costs of the state and consumers, must certainly be taken into account. This is what the government means when it comes to making these decisions. The overall expected impact of the increase in fuel excise duty on inflation is less than 0.3%.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U11	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U12	Thank you. Minister of Justice in his duties as Prime Minister. I hear your answers, and I can't say anything but that everything you've told us right now seems dim to me. You haven't come to the point. We know half the price of fuel is taxes. You have not answered us why so many have been raised, why it is needed. We know very well that this will result in price increases throughout the country. The protests are now quite fierce, both in social media and in real media. Today, Jaan Männik, former chairman of the bank board, even thought that the government should resign. Has there been any discussion in the office that maybe this increase will be the reason for your resignation? Have you considered these options? The people are not pleased with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U13	Thank you. No, the Government of the Republic has not planned a resignation, Mr. Lenk. As far as these effects are concerned, I tried to describe precisely the analysis carried out by the Ministry of Finance. Of course, it is clear that if the Government of the Republic decides to submit these drafts to Parliament for processing, it will present them together with an analysis of all the effects. As far as the overall inflation effect is concerned, as I said, it is less than 0.3%. According to current estimates, the increase in one potential source of cover, i.e. motor fuel excise, should, given the projected increase in nominal average wages, maintain a situation where the purchasing power of consumers at work is increasing as a ratio of how much motor fuel can be bought with their income.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U14	Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Both the Prime Minister and other members of the government have talked a lot about environmentally friendly behaviour, environmental sustainability and so on to protect the rise in fuel excise duties. Smaller and more economical cars consume less fuel. Public transport is certainly more environmentally friendly; its use is more environmentally friendly than driving alone in a private car. Unfortunately, the increase in excise duty will also increase the price of public transport tickets and it will certainly make it more difficult for Tallinn to offer free public transport to its residents. In view of the fact that public transport consumes most of the fuel, is the raising of excise duties really a factor contributing to greener, greener behaviour or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U16	Thank you. There is certainly a certain link between taxes, including excise duties, and consumption. But when it comes to the way in which people's consumption behaviour changes in terms of transport use, I would be skeptical. There is certainly a certain economic subjective logic when consumers make individual decisions in favour of a more environmentally friendly or cheaper mode of transport, which is one element of consideration and is taken into account by the European Union in its fuel excise policy. I would like to remind you that the European Union has set minimum levels of excise duties on fuels as standards for all Member States, primarily on the basis of the reduction of pollution and climate policy objectives.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U17	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U18	The next question is the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare. Asks Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have rightly made raising the salaries of cultural workers one of your most important tasks. What is your specific action plan? Can cultural workers expect an increase in wages and when?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U20	Thank you for your question, my dear colleague. You rightly said that I consider this to be very important. I have said that the salaries of cultural workers, I am sure, among others, of people working in the field of sport, should rise significantly. Let us look at the state of pay in this area now. In 2014, the average salary for highly educated cultural workers was 873 euros. That was the average salary, not the minimum wage. This means that there were a number of people who got significantly below this amount, and there were a number of people who got over this amount. It must be taken into account that this EUR 873 includes all fees, including all additional charges, including the statutory premium. We know that very many people also work in this area at night, on weekends and during public holidays, and for working at night and during public holidays, an extra fee is required under the law. Unfortunately, I have no data on how much of the salary this statutory premium is, but in fact, the average gross wage of these people was still considerably lower than I mentioned. The vast majority of political parties have set themselves the goal of achieving a situation that was once that the salaries of cultural and educational staff with higher education were at the same level. As the minimum wage gap has reached almost EUR 170, it is certainly a very difficult task to reduce this gap significantly. There is a point in the coalition agreement that this government union must do something in this direction, but what it is doing specifically is, of course, the question of budgetary negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U21	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U22	I am sure that these negotiations will be very difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U23	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U24	Please tell me what salary you see as a minimum wage for cultural workers. In all the positions of cultural workers, of course, I am also thinking of the sport sector, could this increase be even?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U25	As wage levels are slightly different, it cannot be said that all workers will gain exactly the same amount. It is important to achieve that at least the same minimum wage can be paid. But what this minimum is is understood differently. The Social Democrats have set the objective that the minimum wage of a cultural worker with higher education, if he or she is in a position requiring higher education, would be equal to the average wage in Estonia. Some parties in the coalition have said that we should achieve that this is equal to the minimum wage of the teacher. In view of the forecast by the Ministry of Finance that the average wage in Estonia will be nearly 1400 euros in 2019 and that teachers' salaries are allowed to increase to at least 120% of the average wage in Estonia, the salary of cultural workers is expected to jump from the current 730 euros to over 1600 euros in 2019. In my most beautiful dreams, I'm able to imagine these sums of money like this, in practice, I'd be a little more modest.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U26	Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I, like many other colleagues, am pleased that you have taken the wages of cultural workers at heart, because they are really relatively low compared to those of other workers who are paid by the state. Am I right to understand that if you are going to the negotiations on the 2016 budget, your position as Minister is that the minimum wage for these people should be the average wage in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U28	We are certainly proposing to find the missing resources for an increase in the pay of cultural workers, at least EUR 7.9 million, in order to raise the minimum wage of cultural workers to the same level as the minimum wage of teachers. That's our proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U29	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U30	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Let me be clear. Do you consider it necessary to have a uniform wage increase for all cultural workers paid from the state, or do you think that the current situation in some cultural areas is particularly poor and that there is a need for a stronger wage increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U31	I mean, when we talk about the minimum, we talk about the minimum that applies to everyone. However, because in some areas wage levels are lower, they need to be helped more in order to be able to pay such a minimum wage.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U32	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U33	The next questioner is Jaak Madison. This is about the Minister of Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus. Please, Jaak Madison!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Rural Affairs! Last autumn, Estonia's farms were hit very hard by Russian sanctions. For companies that are also involved in ensuring the security of Estonia, developing rural and food exports and providing jobs to people, the government's assistance, which was very much expected, was not forthcoming. The then Head of Government, who is also the current Prime Minister, said that he assumed that entrepreneurs had a plan B. At the same time, the people expected the government to have a plan B.I will now ask you. Does the new government and, in particular, as head of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, have a plan B to respond adequately to new problems, sanctions and the losses caused by the rise in excise duties?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U35	Thank you, Reverend Asker! If we look at the economy in the long term, we must admit two things to ourselves, particularly as regards communication with Russia. This communication became complicated a few years ago. What happened last year was perhaps the endgame of such a narrowing. In fact, this means that companies that have linked a large part of their production or sales to the Russian market must always take into account the very high risks, as there is another risk in that country, in addition to market demand. This risk is political, which means that it is not subject to market rules. The second part relates to whether and how the Estonian state supports entrepreneurs in its agricultural sector. Let's look at this last crisis. Dairy producers may have been hit hardest by the fact that exports in this sector account for around 25%. In addition, the sector was supported with nearly EUR 7 million. If we look at the rural development plan and the volume of direct payments in our agricultural sector, we will see a clear upward trend from 2007. The total volume of these grants, both RDP support and direct payments, has already reached EUR 2 billion.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U36	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U37	Thank you. I would like to remind you that last autumn, the opportunity to support farms was missed with EUR 23 million, which was promised by the European Union. Seven million were supported, which was absolutely not enough and did not satisfy the need. If we are saying that for several years the situation has been persistently explosive, would it not have been necessary for the government or the ministry to prepare for the crisis at the same time, while businesses were able to prepare for the future crisis? Has the current Ministry of Rural Affairs taken real steps and is ready to react immediately to new sanctions and, in the same way, to the losses resulting from the increase in excise duties on fuel?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U38	Thank you, good questioner! When we talk about the previous government, we remember that the Minister of Foreign Trade, Anne Sulling, was actively working with the Minister of Agriculture to open foreign markets for Estonian producers. Now I hear in the media from the entrepreneurs that these volumes have grown and they are very grateful that the members of the previous government dealt with this very strongly. But surely these are the few steps that need to be taken along this road. The second part relates to the dairy sector and the price of milk. We also feared that the buying-in price of milk could fall to 20 cents in Estonia and must be intervened by making additional purchases. Luckily, that didn't happen, the lowest price level was about 25 cents. But it is important to mark that if farmers were trapped in certain sectors, depending on how they had invested and taken up business risks and what their financial burden was, some of them were known in advance and they structured their business. If we look at the future and we talk about pig farmers, for example, our plan provides for measures to enable operators to enter other agricultural sectors in order to better cope with the effects of overproduction or participation in critical markets. This means that we are ready to support companies to restructure their farms and restructure their production by abandoning one area and replacing it with another.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U39	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The agricultural policy part of the coalition agreement is certainly disappointing to many. In your previous reply, you also had some time to say that there are some points that talk about incentives and the search for export markets. It is precisely in relation to pig farming that this issue is very acutely raised. Perhaps you can comment on this sector more broadly? I'm going to tie this to the question of the Kehtna parish case. I think what happens next is not just the Minister of Agriculture, but more generally the whole government. A new Minister of State Administration has been put into effect. I read that its responsibility includes the financial management of local governments. Have you discussed what is happening in Kehtna municipality with him? What is the government's position on this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U41	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I have not discussed this issue with the Minister for Administration, because it has not proved necessary at this stage. On the first or second working day, we met Rey Sea Farming representatives, the insolvency administrator and the parish government to discuss the settled situation. According to my information, a meeting of creditors should take place tomorrow after the appointment of the temporary insolvency administrator. Then it should be clear whether bankruptcy will be declared immediately or whether creditors will find a different way. However, I am of the opinion that, if our laws are currently such that at some point a small municipality may have obligations of such a size that it may damage its economic activity, these laws must be reviewed. That is why last Friday we met colleagues at the Ministry of Justice and discussed these laws precisely on the basis of this Rey case. I can say that certain legislative changes and clarifications in this area need to be made, because it does not make sense that losses related to business risk could be left to any municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U42	Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. During the election campaign, several political parties promised that they would support direct payments to farmers, i.e. top-up. Among other things, it was done by two current government departments: the Social Democratic Party and the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. Unfortunately, the coalition agreement does not find a very explicit point in this regard. However, when the Prime Minister answered the questions in this Chamber, he said that even if it was not written, it does not mean that it could not be done. What is your proposal for next year's budget negotiations? Will you go there with a proposal to pay Estonian farmers the allowed amount of direct aid, or top-up, next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U44	Thank you, Reverend Asker! The government coalition agreement has clearly sought to take account of the country's economic opportunities and economic growth over the next four years. On this basis, the coalition agreement has agreed on activities that will certainly have a price. This means that it is not possible to find extra money outside the coalition agreement to bring more money on an easy hand. The Ministry of Agriculture has sent a request to the Ministry of Finance for the payment of additional funds. Once we have received the answer, as far as I know, this answer is received today, then we can continue to decide how we will behave in the negotiations. Let us look at the wider agricultural sector. Today, too, for the third time, Agroforum takes place in Tartu, which is organised under the leadership of the University of Earth in cooperation with the University of St Petersburg. One of the key issues is how to produce more efficiently and by saving nature and the right products in order to achieve greater added value in the agricultural sector. This does not always mean that benefits are paid. But it is extremely gratifying that, since 2007, payments in the agricultural sector have increased. In any case, it has benefited our agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U45	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U46	The next question is the role of Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, as Prime Minister. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U47	Thank you very much. Dear Urmas Reinsalu! My question was put to Taavi Clothes, but I adapted it to you. This concerns the coalition agreement and the allocation of ministerial seats. If we look at the election results, the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance still totally lost their votes, as much as 39,000. The Soot lost 11000 votes, the Centre Party received 8366 votes and eight more seats in parliament. My question now is whether, in the event of such total destruction, we should not have licked wounds in the corner and analyzed what is the cause of the loss, rather than grabbing important portfolios against the will of the electorate. Why the losing party and euphoria?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U48	Thank you, dear Marika Tuus-lauul. I don't know how you would have asked that question to Taavi Clothes. So the Reform Party was totally destroyed? But I will answer you boldly and clearly. Nearly 80000 people supported the programme of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Alliance and we stand up for our voters, just as all political forces, whether in opposition or in government union, stand up for their constituents. The Government Union has jointly put in place a plan to lead Estonia over the next four years, and the central guiding principles of all three political parties in government are included in this action plan. All three political parties, as equal partners, implement a government union programme in accordance with their electoral mandate. It is clear that there is one political logic, and that logic is that each party must stand up for its constituents. This is done by the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, and I am sure that all the parliamentary forces who are in this Chamber will do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U49	Honourable members of the Riigikogu, I would like to remind you that this is a Question Hour of the Government of the Republic, not a Question Hour of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, Reform Party or Social Democratic Party. It's Question Time for the Republic Government. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U50	Thank you. When we talk specifically about a coalition agreement, we can see that the promises there are extremely conflicting. It was promised that the minimum wage would increase by 2% a year. And we'll see that with one hand you give and with the other you take back. For example, with a tax refund for low-paid people, you are actually deliberately holding up a wage increase. It seems that the state wants to maintain low-paid jobs, which, unfortunately, also brings in envelope wages. I think it's going back. The agreement mentions that pensions will increase in line with wage growth. If wages increase so little, then pensions do not rise. In addition, you will withdraw 1% of your social tax from the budget, and this money will be taken from the pension fund and health care. I ask once again why this agreement contains such contradictions that it cannot be believed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U51	Things are generally fine. And things are so in order that, in fact, the wish of the government union to raise the minimum wage is, of course, more ambitious. We have set the goal of achieving, together with the social partners, a minimum wage of at least 45% of the average wage within four years. We have also set the goal, as you rightly said, of improving the livelihood of people on low incomes with real measures, not with fictitious measures, but with real measures, in such a way as to facilitate their transition to other jobs. The Government Union has developed and intends to present a bill to Parliament in the near future, which provides for changes in the interests of low-paid people, and this certainly does not place them in the trap of low incomes. It has been designed and the model is such that it certainly motivates people to gain more income. As far as people's livelihoods and pension growth are concerned, the goal of the government union is, of course, to increase pensions due to economic growth. We rely on the fact that the average old-age pension must remain exempt from income tax. In addition, in order to improve the livelihood of individual pensioners, the Government Union intends to implement changes to the system of income support that would apply from 2017. I also mention here the general plan to increase the tax-free rate, which should gradually rise to EUR 205 by 2019.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U52	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U53	Thank you. Of course, you did not respond to the fact that these promises contradict each other. But let's talk about money. As we know, the Ministry of Finance has just reduced its growth forecasts downwards. You're raising indirect taxes, but the plans to receive them may not come true at all. It is now clearly stated that next year the money will be 50 million less. The state budget will be very clearly negative in the coming years, as has been said by the members of your own party from the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You are playing with taxes and raising them here, but you are not watching how more money can be made into the budget through the development of production. And actually, the prognosis is that the labour force is falling all the time. What are you gonna do about it? We do not see these issues in the coalition agreement. What are you still going to do with this forthcoming budget deficit? Where do you have a vision for moving Estonia forward?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U54	It is clear that the overall volume of government in the Estonian state must decrease. This is not only a political vision for the government, but we have already foreseen savings of an average of EUR 18 million per year by reducing government expenditure from next year. As far as the economic and financial policy direction of the government is concerned, our understanding is that the structural balance of the state budget, as provided for by the basic state budget law, must be maintained. On this basis, a budget strategy for the next three years will be drawn up by May. It is very true that prosperity can come thanks to entrepreneurialism, economic growth, because in Estonia there are companies willing to invest here, create new jobs, pay people a higher salary. The government association intends to achieve this by taking a series of steps in Estonian industrial policy, encouraging pension funds to invest more in the Estonian economy, so that Estonian companies have better access to capital, so that there is less overregulation and bureaucracy in Estonia for micro-enterprises, small companies and foreign investors who also consider Estonia as their investment destination when choosing between different countries. So the government union has a plan for economic recovery. I also hope for good cooperation with all the opposition forces to discuss, analyse and improve this plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U55	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in his duties as Prime Minister. I'll take it from here. Yesterday, the Committee on Monetary Affairs also received an overview of the new economic forecast and indeed, economic growth is projected to be slightly lower than the previous vision. That is why it is extremely important for the government to launch these activities, which are in the agreement of the government union and which are aimed at promoting growth. The reduction in labour taxes is certainly worth emphasising here. However, the Government Union Agreement also includes as a separate item the development of the domestic capital market and measures to improve the availability of capital. I know there was a point in the IRL program. Would you point out what these measures are, so that access to capital is improved for small and medium-sized enterprises and that the domestic capital market develops more quickly than it has done so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U57	The next seven years of the European Union's structural funds are intended to provide large sums of money to improve the availability of capital for Estonian companies. This is certainly one specific dimension. The Government Union is planning to reform the business support system, to move more from direct payments to the so-called 'clearly business infrastructure support mechanism'. Secondly, there are certainly a number of legal obstacles here at the moment. The Ministry of Finance will analyse them and draw up new rules on investment funds, which should facilitate access to capital for Estonian companies. It is true that the spring economic forecast and last summer's forecast on the basis of which this state budget was made are different. The summer economic forecast was too optimistic, especially as regards VAT receipts, and now decisions based on it must be taken that are realistic and not too optimistic. We are ready for this and are based on the objective that the taxpayer can sustain the country with its running costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U58	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. There is a point in the coalition agreement that says that we are modernising the administration of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. When I asked the same question before us to the Prime Minister who gave my speech to the throne, he explained that this means changing the organisation of administrative councils in Tallinn. In later radio interviews, some coalition ambassadors have also asked why there should not be eight local governments based on urban districts in Tallinn. How do you understand this point that we are modernising the administration of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U60	The Government Union has agreed that in Estonia the administrative reform will come as part of a plan to make the state organisation more efficient and sustainable. The focus of the administrative reform is above all that Estonia's rural areas are competitive so that life on the ground progresses. It is clear that when we talk about administrative reform as a way of making local governments more capable and effective on a certain scale, it is very important that the community communication that the local community has in representative democracy is working in making its decisions. It is right that the Prime Minister also pointed out that in the case of the administration of the city of Tallinn, our capital region, we see that there are shortcomings in this community connection, in the exercise of local representative democracy and in the representation of the interests of the communities. It is also right that if we look at the capital region as a whole, as one of Tallinn's municipalities, as well as the surrounding areas, then their cooperation needs to be analysed. This could be better and more efficient. The answer is that the concrete and unambiguous measures that are planned, the government union has not put in place, they are not written with milk anywhere. Preparedness to analyse the administration of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area on the basis of these principles and willingness to go to Parliament with draft laws, where the legislator then decides, is political will.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U61	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U62	The next question is the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Rural Affairs! The absurd situation with pig rearing in Kehtna is well known to all of us. Today, it seems that the most complex has been overcome and some solutions are already being found. However, the municipality of Kehtna has incurred specific unforeseen costs in this respect, and the municipality has made a request to compensate for them in order to receive money from the reserve of the Government of the Republic. I ask for a specific answer as to whether the government intends to compensate the municipality for these costs or whether you intend to leave them on the municipality's shoulders!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U64	Thank you, Reverend Asker! My firm position is that the local authority should not have to bear these costs. Compensation of expenditure depends on how bankruptcy proceedings proceed. In fact, this means, speaking purely from a shareholder's point of view, that the local government has allocated EUR 18799 to feed and preserve pigs. Thus, it would be quite logical for the property of bankruptcy to return these expenses to the local government as well. I very much hope that, if a new owner comes along and this happens and takes over this undertaking, or any solution is found, these costs will in any case be compensated for by the local government. If, indeed, the decision-makers think that for some reason they should not compensate for them, then the government is certainly willing to consider compensating for these costs. But I'm assuming it doesn't go that far. It would be right and fair that those undertakings which are involved in the liquidation and have retained its assets also pay out costs which, unfortunately, they themselves have not done.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U65	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U66	Knowing the situation there a little, I also know that the municipality has avoided a situation in which it would end up in this bankruptcies. There is a high probability that such money will not come back from there through bankruptcy. Your answer was somewhat vague, that compensation would be discussed. Do you still promise to make sure there's no money coming out of the den of bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U67	Thank you, Reverend Asker! In my view, it would be right and fair if this were done by companies or in accordance with the post-insolvency solution that comes in there. When we look at how the entrepreneur has signalled the public and the partners, in this situation where he said he was going to liquidate the pigs, we suddenly found out later that 400 pigs were actually coming up. That means there was no plan for liquidation. If one of the companies, companies or investors now takes over at any price that I cannot predict here, then it would make sense that these costs will be compensated. At the same time, I actually have to admit that lawyers are arguing a little about whether and how this particular money could come, whether it would go into bankruptcy and land somewhere in the last order, or whether it would be because it was a replacement, as a matter of priority. It's a little loose. But I assure you that if such a situation were to arise, the current government would probably be prepared to compensate. It would be fair, however, to do so through bankruptcy property, because the property is in this regard and the pigs have been kept alive. For pigs to survive and their future fate to be humane, the reason I met representatives of the company, the temporary insolvency administrator and the municipality on Friday.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U68	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U69	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Does the Minister of Rural Affairs currently leave Kehtna alone and not apply for funding from the reserve fund? Humane behaviour towards animals could also be humane to the parish and could be given certain guarantees.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U70	Thank you, honourable member of the Riigikogu. I think as a minister, I have a primary duty to protect public property. Each payment from the national reserve must be highly justified. I dare say that it is too early to make this payout decision now, based on what I said before answering the previous questioner. As a result, the Minister has not taken a position at the moment as to whether the management of the company was uneconomic, inefficient. There are sufficient indications that the right decisions, which would have prevented this situation, have not been taken in due time. I have been told that this is the first case in Estonia, where one farm one day simply says that it is not going to feed any more pigs because there is no money. This is a very first case! And, of course, if there are holes in the current legislation, I will also resolve this problem in order to avoid such cases in the future. The worst thing would have been if these pigs had to go to liquidation quickly, which would certainly have been unhumane and a rather difficult economic situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U71	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U72	The next question is the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. In addition to several state institutions that coordinate and organise cultural and sporting activities in Estonia, it is the local authorities who also organise culture. Especially in the last five-six years, local authorities are often struggling with their own cultural and community houses, not with their livelihoods, but with making them better and better. There have been times when the state has come to the aid of local authorities on this issue. There have been even separate tables for investments in culture and sport. The county has agreed either at the level of the county government or at the level of the local government association, what could be the cultural objects belonging to local governments, where the state also puts its shoulders, because often these are the places where the people can go together. Is such an investment plan to be restored?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U74	Thank you for your question. As the question was about the culture policy of the new government, I have to answer the question of such a broad and rather general philosophy discussion in a very broad way. These programmes, which you described, have certainly contributed very much to the fact that regions also have such meeting places, places of sport practice and places of culture. And when you ask for my personal opinion, as a convinced country, I think that the country could be more face-to-face with problems that specifically concern specific regions and should, of course, also go to the aid of these regions through its cultural policy. As far as the specific programme is concerned, I cannot, however, give you any specific answers to this question on the basis of what I know today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U75	Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. When I read the Socialist Election Platform and its cultural chapter before the elections, I must say that I liked it. Several parts of it overlap with the electoral platform of the Centre Party, especially in the cultural chapter. One common point, which was on the platform of both you and our party, was that the value added tax on cultural events should be lowered. You planned to reduce this VAT to 9% and the Centre Party to 5%. There is no word in the coalition agreement about this. However, if the Prime Minister's logic is that if it does not appear in the letter, does it not mean that it cannot be done, would you be prepared as a minister, would you have the courage to retable the subject of reducing the value added tax on cultural events in the government's office when discussing next year's budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U77	Thank you for your question. Yes, indeed, there has been a great many overlaps and a common role in the programmed positions of the Socialists and the Centre Party all along the way. Looking at the programs of this procedure, you could really say that there are overlaps. Maybe it was random, but given that your programme was prepared somewhat after the programme we presented, it certainly had some good cooperation. As far as courage is concerned, I think that both I and my colleagues in the Ministry of Culture and other socialist ministers in the government have enough courage. But does it make sense in this coalition, after 38 days of coalition negotiations, where the topic 'Downloading of VAT on cultural events' was very heated, to spend a large part of energy on an empty dispute, I doubt that. Therefore, I cannot give you a firm promise here that we will certainly once again take up this issue at some heated session of the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U78	Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! Once again, I wish you could try. The Centre Party Group would undoubtedly support this draft in this Chamber, which concerns the reduction of VAT on cultural events, perhaps not to 5%, but initially to at least 9%. My third question relates to the new house of the National Opera. Can you predict, or dare to say, today, a year in which a new building of the National Opera could be completed in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U80	Thank you. I understand from your remarks that the Riigikogu hall will probably be able to vote on the corresponding draft, taking into account parliamentary practices that the opposition normally applies. Power and success in developing this bill! As for the house of the National Opera, it has been a topic for years. There have been a wide variety of plans, and I, as a member of the National Opera Council, have been in closer contact with this topic and its various versions several years ago. As for the new house of the National Opera, the coalition agreement doesn't say that. If you look at possible funding schemes, I dare say that by 2019 this house will most likely not be completed. But I hope there will be a timetable and a financing plan by then, which will say very specifically when, where and to what extent this house will be.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U81	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U82	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister of Culture, I'm trying to understand your coalition agreement and to decipher it, but it's relatively complicated. On the one hand, you are trying to boost the life and growth of rural areas by increasing prices and, in particular, by rising fuel prices. On the other hand, you are trying to raise the wages of cultural workers by reducing public spending in the country by EUR 18 million each year, which is quite a large amount for four years. How do these things come together? I ask whether the coalition agreement reflects, for example, the wage increase of sports club coaches anywhere. As we know, only about 50% of the wage planned for them last year, which I think was 700 euros. Is that what the coalition agreement is about?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U83	Thank you for your question. As far as sports clubs and coach remuneration are concerned, the coalition agreement says that we are based, among other things, on the fundamentals of Estonian sports policy until 2030. There is also a plan, along with people in this area, how future coach remuneration could be envisaged. This is, of course, about how local authorities could catch up when the state is showing some kind of wage growth initiative. There is a format for this, tripartite negotiations. It is natural that representatives of local authorities will certainly participate in such negotiations. I dare, at this point, to allow the country not to take any steps without consulting them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U84	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The coalition agreement that you have presented to us lacks such an important cultural political object as the Estonian Open Air Museum and the Kanut Visitor Centre. However, a major preparatory work has been carried out to prepare it; the centre is already very successful internationally. Please, what happens next?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U86	I do not dare say the year, because first, this coalition should be agreed and the financial resources guaranteed. But this object has not disappeared from the work plans of the Ministry of Culture. We will certainly continue to work on this in order to find a specific amount of money and to foresee a year. And once an agreement has been reached with the Ministry of Finance, we can introduce it. As far as the coalition agreement is concerned, the chapter on culture and sport is the most specific in all compared to the other chapters of the coalition agreement, giving certainty that these important investments, which have in principle been agreed, which are planned, where there are some fundamental promises, will certainly be made. I am therefore very pleased that the coalition partners were willing to cooperate and that we have a good deal in this respect. There are a number of important objects and I really hope that we will be able to stay within the deadline with them and that their sources of cover will be preserved.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U87	It's 2:01.34, Question Time's over. Thanks to the questioners and the respondents! All of you were quick, we were able to examine six questions, which is a very good result. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U88	Dear Riigikogu, we will begin the Wednesday session. Does anyone have a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U89	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, A long-awaited event: I will give the law on the acquisition and restriction of real estate to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. This is an extremely interesting law. With this, it was proved in the previous Riigikogu that the parliament really is only a rubber stamp in the hands of the government, i.e. literally the government, because it is the only draft that found support here in the Riigikogu, reached the third reading and was blocked there. It's a democracy litmus paper. Nobody's against the Department of Defense or the Department of Internal Affairs, we don't mind. It is not accepted here in the Riigikogu only because it has always been introduced by the opposition party. So let's check what's gonna change. The question is still the twentieth century and the possibility for people who live legally and long-term in Estonia to acquire them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-15_U90	There's no more calls. I have a message for you. After the plenary session, the opening meeting of the South American Parliamentary Group will take place in the Chamber today and will be convened by Imre Sooäär. Please, let's do the presence check! 83 members of the Riigikogu are present, 18 are missing. Good luck in the work and in the business! Closure of the sitting at 2.06 p.m.
