ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U1	Good fellows, good morning. Dear Riigikogu, we will begin the second Thursday session of the IXth plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, the IRL Group discussed the results of the meeting of the Riigikogu's Management Board, the Council of Elders and the Chairs of the Commission and presents a package of legislative proposals concerning the holding of Riigikogu meetings, recording and preservation of recordings. We propose to make the recordings of the research, special and permanent committees of the Riigikogu available to the public, ensuring the requirements of the Public Information Act, the Personal Data Protection Act and the State Secrets and the Secret Foreign Information Act. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] We propose that the draft on the preservation of future recordings only during the same term should be withdrawn, because it goes against the spirit of the debate launched on the initiative of the board, which is now moving in a reasonable direction. We also propose to the Riigikogu Board that a political agreement be initiated in order to reverse the current principle of the work of the committees and to reach an agreement so that the meetings of the committees are public. The rule would be that the hearing is public unless the Commission decides otherwise. And it is possible to conclude this agreement without amending the law. I am pleased that both the Social Democrats and representatives of the Centre Party have broadly expressed their support for this principle in this week's discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U3	I have adopted a letter on behalf of the Bureau, and it is good practice that the Bureau discusses and responds to it. Jürgen Ligi, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U4	However, I would ask the Bureau to take the matter seriously and also to inform the Chamber that is currently taking place here. You were handed the package, but you say it was a letter. Can this letter or package be completed? I, for example, would have the proposal to include the words 'the Isamaa and Res Publica Group'. Can we continue to process this? Maybe we'd do it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U5	Thank you. We're sure we can. It says 'The Isamaa and Res Publica Union faction'. We understand that. You can write a letter to the board if you like. Good colleagues, let's do a presence check, please. Aborting presence check. A procedural question, Mr Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U6	Does the board take letters that arrive by regular mail as seriously as they do?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U7	The board takes all letters very seriously, analyses them and responds to them. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 76 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 25.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U8	Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. The first point is the first reading of the Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, the Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Act amending the Law on special labelling of liquid fuel. Kadri Simson, member of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U9	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the draft law initiated by the Centre Party, which aims to postpone the increase in excise duty on light fuel oil. If this draft becomes a law, on 1 May this year, household and local authorities will not be hit by a significant increase in heating prices. The initiation of our draft was due to the fact that last summer, namely on 2 June, the government launched a draft law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and two other amendments to the law. It was a package that contained various tax increases. The last vote in the Riigikogu was at the extraordinary session on 1 July. Perhaps you will remember that when the new government alliance had come to this great hall with this bill, the main steam was that a new government community supported the liquor and the other supported the beer lobby. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Reading the verbatim charts shows that the main dispute was over which alcohol excise duty should be increased by the second or second excise duty. As a result, in the middle of the summer, the increase in excise duties on fuel did not attract much attention. The Centre Party is of the opinion that raising excise duties on alcohol for the purpose of implementing the state budget is not worth contesting. Of course, somehow you have to fill the state budget. However, such a massive increase in fuel prices is not justified and we therefore propose that it be postponed. Currently, households using diesel have two options that are specifically labelled. One option is to continue heating with ordinary diesel after 1 May. As far as the price of fuel is concerned, if this morning a person who heats his home with specially labelled diesel has to pay EUR 0.617 per litre, it will rise to EUR 0.948 on 1 May. During the summer, it could still be said that fuel would increase by about 38%. However, as the price of diesel has now decreased, but the excise duty is still as high as the price, but is not dependent on the price, but calculated per litre, the price increase for home-hunters is 53.6%. But Jürgen Ligi simply does not understand that if special-labelled diesel could be purchased today at EUR 0.617 per litre, the price for the new tax will be EUR 0.948 per litre. A small calculation shows that the price increase is 53.6%. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The fact that excise duty is a fixed amount and its share in heating homes is increasing should even be recognised by the former Minister of Finance. If this price increase seems too high, there is another way to switch to alternative sources of heating, which requires the conversion or complete replacement of boilers. Depending on the heating system, the cost of the investment for private houses is estimated at EUR 2 000 to EUR 12000. It is possible to apply for up to 40% of the aid to replace the heating system, but the owner of each private house still has to take into account the cost of thousands of euros to replace its heating system. These costs may be even more significant for large public buildings, as they may need to take into account a variety of specific requirements. The Ministry of Finance has predicted that one in four fuel users will undertake such transformations this year, while the rest will continue the old way by paying a higher excise duty. As far as apartment buildings are concerned, I have an example of an apartment building in Võrumaa. It has 25 apartments and a 8500 square metre heated surface cooperative spends 33000 litres of fuel in one heating period. This means that they have an additional cost of EUR 10000 per year due to the new excise duty. When we asked the Ministry of Finance why such increases were planned, the answer was very simple: extra money is needed for the budget. Now I'm getting to where that money comes from. The Government of the Republic calculated that if the increase in excise duty were on 1 May, more EUR 7.8 million could be made available to the state budget this year and even EUR 13 million next year. Certainly, one of the largest groups suffering from price increases is local authorities, which own 182 sites using such boilers. These boilers require about 3.3 million litres of specially labelled fuel during the heating period. This means that there will be an additional burden for municipalities of around EUR 1 million. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance has planned an additional revenue of EUR 7.8 million for this half-year, so the remaining EUR 6.8 million should come from domestic consumers. The Ministry of Finance has said that an average household using light fuel oil could take about 3,000 litres during the heating period. The Ministry's representative, in defending the bill, also confirmed that the share of liquid fuel in household energy consumption in Estonia is actually very small. If we look at the share of liquid fuel elsewhere, it is on average more than 10% in Europe, while in Estonia the smaller and the main share of liquid fuel consumed by Estonian households is light fuel used for heating houses. As much revenue as 6.8 million households and apartment buildings should not be expected even if we are based on a much larger number of households concerned than the Ministry of Finance wants to testify. Statistics Estonia has studied household energy consumption and claims that there are 560000 households in Estonia and 0.8% of them heat with light fuel oil. This is about 5,000 households, and if we divide the planned income between 5,000 households, we will get an illogically large sum for each of them. The problem is also that the government does not really know what would be cheaper to switch to. Our entire excise policy is jumpy. We remember the time when households joined the gas grid because the gas was a fuel source. At some point, it was suggested to get rid of Russian gas and switch to electricity. Then there was a very large increase in the price of electricity initiated by the government. Now the next type of heating has received an extraordinary tax increase. When local authorities asked the Ministry of Finance a month ago what kind of heating was recommended, the answer was to go to wood heating. However, this is not the most appropriate thing. This may be environmentally friendly, but for many houses that are now heated with a different fuel, it is not feasible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U10	Good waitress, thank you very much. You have at least one question. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U11	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, Yesterday, the Riigikogu was an extraordinary day for me because two ministers said I was lying. One of them was the Prime Minister. I ask: is the price increase of 38% correct and adequate, or is it not? The Prime Minister questioned that. Is that the right number or the wrong one?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U12	The Prime Minister wants to emphasise that, in the meantime, fuel prices have fallen and, therefore, the introduction of excise duty, which means EUR 110 per 1000 litres instead of EUR 392 per 1000 litres, has fallen to a happy time. Fuel prices are lower. I do not know if the Prime Minister has not brought himself up to date and I do not know that the excise duty is not dependent on the price of fuel, but is imposed per litre. A very simple calculation shows that if, under current market conditions, fuel is cheaper, the share of excise duty in its price is even higher. So there's going to be a price increase. If it were not for this increase in excise duty, those who heat with light fuel oil could also rejoice over the prices of energy on the world market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U13	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U14	Thank you. Dear waitress, You referred to the draft launched yesterday by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I ask you, as head of the Centre Party Group, whether the Centre Party supports the draft that the Committee on Monetary Affairs initiated?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U15	Of course! This bill eliminates the additional burden imposed on domestic consumers, which was stated in the law passed at the emergency session this summer, and provided that if there are more than 100 litres of fuel in your kettle, you will have to find the individuals involved to pump out this residue from your boiler and sell it to someone, so you do not know who and at what cost. It will now make it easier for people to report their fuel waste. At the same time, I still find this regulation strange. We have raised excise duties on alcohol and tobacco, for example, and if you have bought a bottle of beer the day before the increase in excise duty, that beer is yours and you do not have to declare it the day after and pay off the excise difference to anyone. For some reason, this regulation does not apply to this fuel. Although these 100 litres have been bought at tax rates, and they are yours, you will have to pay this extra money later, somehow, after the country has raised the excise duty. This is a different approach and it is as if it is more punishment for heating than for smoking or drinking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U16	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U17	Thank you. Good waitress! What is your opinion that the country should even charge excise duty on domestic fuel? If you do not think that you should, perhaps the repeal of this provision could be initiated at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U18	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U19	It has been a government policy for many years to constantly increase taxes on domestic expenditure. Even so far, this fuel was not entirely excise-free, so far the rate was EUR 110.95 per 1000 litres. Now it's going to rise to 350%. Such an increase in prices is extraordinary, and apparently the vast majority of households who use this fuel are still overpowering.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U20	Thank you, Mr President. I would formulate this last question a little differently. In fact, the point of your draft is to postpone the date of entry into force for one year. But rather, the subject of discussion might be the question of whether it would not be more appropriate to repeal this provision, which will enter into force on 1 May 2015, instead of postponing the deadline. Hence the question to you as rapporteur for this draft: did you not understand in the group that perhaps not to come here today with a postponement proposal, but instead with a cancellation proposal? It seems to me that it would have been even more reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U21	Tiit Tammsaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U22	Deal! But this bill was issued to postpone the tax increase. The government used rhetoric as a fig leaf that the planned tax collection is justified by the fact that the heating method based on light fuel oil is simply anti-environmental. It was also confirmed that they would support households in changing boilers. There were no support measures yet when we put in place this draft in November. There were no private houses, no apartment buildings, no municipal buildings. We drew attention to this and quite frankly suggested that it is simply a tax increase that is needed to fill the budget gap. However, as far as this principle is concerned, increasing home expenses through excise duty is like taxing a sin. In Estonian conditions, in our cold northern climate, keeping the room warm is not a luxury chase. This is vital and therefore, of course, such additional taxation is not justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Of course it was known. The government informed about this a long time ago, and this rise was finally done. And the compensation for the conversion of boilers was finally fixed. But the law-abiding citizens who industriously rebuilt their boilers before the news of compensation remain with another long nose. Have you not thought about extending this so-called support retroactively, let's say, to boilers rebuilt a year earlier or something like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U24	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U25	Dear Tiit Tammsaar! First of all, I do not agree with you that it was known in advance for a long time. The current Interim Government, which did this tax increase, has not been in office for a long time. But let's see how that law was passed. The idea was developed on 23 April 2014 and the draft law was adopted at an extraordinary session on 1 July. One normal tax increase will certainly pass through longer coordination circles, and this will also be discussed in greater depth in Parliament. The fact that this law needs to be corrected before it enters into force is also a matter of haste. Now, from this ex-post compensation mechanism. Yes, I agree that there have been a great many KredEx programmes under which it has no longer been possible to apply for support at one point, because the budgetary resources have been exhausted. We will see if the current sums will be enough to help those in need. However, there is nothing directly in the text of the law as to whether the support could be extended back. You should ask your party partner, Urve Palo, for this regulation has come from his official body and has been drafted in accordance with his political will.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I agree with you a hundred percent that this law that was passed some time ago was only made for the sole reason to find additional sources of cover for the new ideas that were then put forward. And its impact is very concretely measured in money: on the one hand, how much additional money is received in the state budget due to the loss of special-marked fuel and, on the other hand, how much money it takes out of people's wallets. My question is that if we made a separate amendment not to postpone this deadline, but to cancel the whole measure, would you, as the initiator of this particular draft, support the deletion of this point from the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U27	Yeah! We voted against these tax increases. In principle, we believe that such a tax increase is not justified because the planned additional income of EUR 7.8 million this year and EUR 13 million next year will fall disproportionately on the shoulders of certain households.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U28	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I would now like to ask Remo Holsmer, member of the Finance Committee, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs at its meeting on 12 January. I would like to congratulate the Central Party Group and Kadri Samson, who have taken this matter so seriously. The hearing of this committee could have been recorded and transferred and distributed to all concerned. The debate was really substantive, as Kadri said in her speech. In this key, my report is divided into two parts. One part concerns a specific draft. The government's position on the specific draft was negative. This was explained by Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, and by Lauri Lelumes, Head Specialist of the same department. The budgetary impact of the amendment would be EUR 13 million in 2015, i.e. already in the current year. This is one very serious reason why the government did not support this draft. However, I come back to the substantive debate in the Commission. It raised the topic that, since there was a desire to alleviate the inconveniences caused by the increase in excise duty during the transitional period to people and also to the authorities that heat their buildings with fuel oil, a draft was born in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which was handed over yesterday by the chairman of the committee to the Riigikogu. I hope that, in the course of this procedure, better solutions can be found in the implementation of the law that has already been adopted, so that the transition is more convenient for people and that the state does not require them to carry out any unjustified additional activities. The Commission also discussed the compensation mechanism. As Mrs Simson said earlier, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has developed and signed a regulation on the compensation mechanism so that people can rebuild their heating systems, also using state support. In total, we are talking about EUR 5 million. This morning, we received further information from the Committee on Monetary Affairs that, apart from a specific measure, there are three or four European Union programmes in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, in which it is possible to apply for more money for the exchange of heating systems, and this is certainly supported by the Ministry. I think that the Commission's debate has now been taken forward. Once again: the debate was really substantive and, as I have already said, the committee decided to initiate a draft which was handed over to the Riigikogu yesterday. But on draft 766 the Commission decided that our proposal was to reject it. Five members of the Commission voted in favour and four against, with no abstentions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U30	Thank you. You have questions too. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U31	Thank you. There was quite a fantastic logic in the speech of the author of this draft. But I'm gonna ask you something. How is it possible that if the price of fuel falls, the price increase calculated in the Riigikogu was more than 50%? The rapporteur stressed several times that the excise duty was not price-dependent. Now that the excise duty has been increased, the price has risen more during the sharp fall in prices. What kind of logic is that? Did the Committee on Monetary Affairs make such calculations, or are they authors'?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U32	No separate calculations were made by the Committee on Finance. I suggest you go to the bill waitress and ask her for more details. Then Kadri can also show the Excel table where their calculations are written.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U33	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U34	Thank you, manager. Dear Commission waitress, The main theme of the narrative of the Reform Party is to reach Nordic level. Have you also examined the level of excise duties on fuel in Sweden, for example? This is minimal or even non-existent in Finland, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U35	Thank you. The narrative of the Reform Party at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was not discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-22_U36	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No negotiations will be opened. The commission has decided to reject the draft 766 at first reading. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 40 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 24 against and no abstentions. Draft 766 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. Our only item on the agenda today is closed. Good fellows, the hearing is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 10.33 a.m.
