ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! People's ambassadors Holsmer and Kert! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U2	Due to the end of the term of office of member of the Riigikogu, Priit Toobal, due to his resignation, Anneli Ott will be a member of the Riigikogu as of today. To do that, he needs to take an oath. Please take an oath to the Speaking Chair of the Parliament of Anneli Oti!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U3	Honourable Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U4	Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Please, Thomas Vitsu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Me and thirteen members of the Central Party Group have an inquiry to the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu. On 9 October 2014, the Cohabitation Act was adopted, which provided that implementing acts should also be in place on 1 January 2016. Our questions are about legal certainty and the obligation of the Government of the Republic to adopt these implementing acts and bring them to the Riigikogu. When I asked the Prime Minister about them on Wednesday, he said they didn't have a consensus and let us see how we can do it. I don't think that's how it works. Our three questions to the Minister of Justice are about the government's position in this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U6	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U7	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I will present you with a draft law amending the party law. Its content is very short. Paragraph 5 (1) of the Political Party Act shall be amended and worded as follows: 'Estonian citizen of a capacity of at least 16 years of age may be a member of a party. A citizen of the European Union who is not an Estonian citizen but who lives permanently in Estonia may also be a member of the political party. Only one party registered in Estonia may belong simultaneously. " The point is that the bill brings the age of 18 to 16 years of membership of a party. On 13 August last year, the amendment to § 156 (2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, which granted the right to vote in municipal elections to persons aged 16 or over, entered into force. We believe that the same possibility should be envisaged for membership of a political party. But from now on, it's all in our hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U8	Good fellows! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and one inquiry. According to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Now, let's do the presence check. 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U9	Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. The first item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Medical Device Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. We can go to the preparation of the final vote. Good colleagues, I'm going to vote the final vote on bill 63. Please take a stand and vote. 81 members of the Riigikogu, no one opposed, with one abstention. Draft Act 63 amending the Medical Device Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U10	Let's move on to the second item. The third reading of Bill 75 of the Waste Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. We are going to prepare the final vote. I will put Bill 75 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. By 80 members of the Riigikogu, there are no respondents or abstentions. Bill 75 of the Waste Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U11	Let's move on to the third item. The third reading of the draft law amending the Hunting Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 77 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 73 members of the Riigikogu, against 1 and with 5 abstentions. Draft 77 Act amending the Hunting Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U12	Let's move on to item number four. The "Sovereignty of the Republic of Estonia" of the crucial national issue begins to be discussed. Dear colleagues, before we go into this process, let me briefly present the procedure for the debate. This is due to § 153 of our Home and Working Procedures Act. Firstly, the presentation by Martin Helme, Chairman of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, will last up to 15 minutes, with subsequent questions and answers, which will also last up to 15 minutes. After that, the history doctor Jaak White's presentation, which lasts up to 15 minutes, is followed by questions and answers, which also last up to 15 minutes. Third, the lecturer of the Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu and the chairman of the management board Varro Vooglaid will perform for the Protection of the Family and Tradition of the Foundation. The presentation lasts up to 15 minutes, followed by questions and answers, which also last up to 15 minutes. After that, the presentation of Henn Põllea, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu, which lasts up to 15 minutes, will be followed by questions and answers, which will also last up to 15 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur during the discussion of this item. After that, negotiations will be opened. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed that the representatives of the political groups speak first. It is also proposed to extend the sitting, but we will come back to this later if necessary. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu by Martin Helme, Chairman of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U13	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear guests! The dictionary explaining the Estonian language defines sovereignty as: it is the country's complete internal and foreign political independence from other countries, independence. Jean Bodin, a 16th - century French lawyer, said that sovereignty is the highest power over his territory. Highest! The highest of which is only God. The Estonian Constitution begins with this. The preamble to the Constitution, i.e. the most important part of the Constitution, the most important fundamental principle of the Constitution, says: 'The unwavering faith and unwavering will to consolidate and develop the state created by the national self-determination of the Estonian people in the undying right [---], founded on freedom, justice and the right that protects inner and external peace and is placed on present and future generations in their social success and overall benefit, which must ensure the preservation of the Estonian nation, language and culture through the ages. ' And only then will the sections come from which, in turn, the highest priority, or the most important, is raised with the following content, § 1: 'Estonia is an independent and independent democratic republic, where the highest authority is exercised by the people. Estonia's independence and independence are timeless and inalienable. " These sentences are the cornerstones of our country and our sovereignty. But let's go further in time and space. The American Declaration of Independence can be regarded as the very beginning of a much praised enlightening and humanist regime in Europe, because the French Revolution was then still ongoing, and at that time most European countries were absolutistic, where the sovereign was not a nation but a ruler. This declaration says something that has now become the fundamental principles of the people's right to self-determination and international order. In fact, we take for granted these truths that the creator has created all humans as equals and has certain inalienable rights, including the right to life, freedom and the pursuit of happiness. To guarantee these rights, people have created governments that draw their rightful power from the consent of the rulers. Whenever any form of government begins to destroy these goals, the people have the right to change or abolish it and to create a new government that, based on these principles, organises its power in a way that seems to bring security and happiness to the people in the best way possible. Back to Estonia. Our restoration of independence began with a declaration of sovereignty. 27 years and three days ago, a declaration on the sovereignty of the Estonian SSR was adopted in this very hall. The central idea of the declaration is simple: 'The further development of Estonia must take place in conditions of sovereignty. The summer development of the Estonian SSR means that it holds the highest power in its territory in the form of its supreme authorities, government and judicial bodies. The summer development of the Estonian SSR is comprehensive and indivisible. ' With the declaration, the Supreme Council said, first, that it is the highest body representing the power of the people, and, second, that the laws adopted in this Chamber take precedence over the laws adopted in the territory of Estonia. Why am I talking about this? What does all this mean? This means that in the sense of democratic constitutional law, and especially in the light of the Constitution of Estonia, the people are sovereign. Everything begins with the will of the people and ends with it. The Estonian state exists for the Estonian people and the power operates with the permission of the people. It is also very important that the state never has the power of decision of the people, I emphasise, never, or in any way, to give up to anyone. The government and the Riigikogu have borrowed power from the people to walk around with it. The government and the Riigikogu cannot pass this power on to anyone, and they can not pass it on to anyone, but only give it back to the people. The surrender of power, of course, goes through a referendum when an important issue is determined by the will of the sovereign, which power will follow. However, the legitimacy of power is regularly asked for confirmation and a new mandate in the elections. When was the last time the power consulted the people in Estonia? In Estonia, re-independants have been organized exactly twice. Firstly, for the adoption of the same constitution on which we rely today as a country, and secondly, on 14 September 2003, when the Constitution was supplemented and permission to enter the European Union was sought. I would remind you all of the exact mandate given by the people back then. § 1 of the Constitutional Supplementation Act states: "Estonia may belong to the European Union on the basis of the fundamental principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. ' § 2: 'Estonia's membership of the European Union applies the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, subject to the rights and obligations arising from the Accession Treaty. ' These paragraphs gave the government and Riigikogu a clear obligation to base their membership of the European Union on the fundamental principles of the Constitution. I referred to these fundamental principles at the beginning of the speech. Now a question for the MPs, party leaders, members of the government and the public. Does it seem to you that the Estonian people are now actually sovereign and exercise their sovereign right in all matters, absolutely all matters, to realise their will, or is practice something entirely different? The Conservative People's Party considers that the government does not respect the will of the people as sovereign in a number of matters, which means that power delegitimizes itself. In 2012, when the Supreme Court considered the legality of the Greek debt, i.e. whether the ESM Treaty is still in line with our constitution, our Supreme Court stated clearly and unambiguously (paragraph 223 of the resolution): 'The General Assembly considers that § 1 of the PSTS must be regarded as both a mandate to ratify the Treaty of Accession to the European Union and a forward-looking mandate that allows Estonia to belong to the changing European Union. This is provided that the Treaty on European Union is amended or the new Treaty is compatible with the Constitution. However, according to the General Assembly, PSTS is not a mandate to legitimise the European Union's integration process or to delegate Estonia's competence to the European Union without limit. [---] If it turns out that the new Treaty or amendment of the Treaty on European Union will result in a greater delegation of Estonia's competences to the European Union and a wider violation of the Constitution, it is necessary to ask the authority of the higher power, that is to say, the consent of the people, and probably to renew the Constitution. ' In other words, the Supreme Court makes the parliament and government wooden and red: the mandate obtained in 2003 has been exhausted and will not allow Estonia to participate in further progressive integration. This requires a new mandate. Sovereignty is not an abstract matter; it clearly goes back to practical decisions. While in 1988 there was a struggle for sovereignty, a struggle for even who can mine our phosphorus, in 2012 there was a struggle for sovereignty for who and how much money can be taken from the pockets of the Estonian people. With the ESM, the government and the Riigikogu granted this right to strangers, going against the will of a clear majority of the people. In 2014, the key issue of sovereignty was who decides what marriage is. I will stop this at length because there was a struggle for two different aspects of sovereignty during the debate on the Cohabitation Act. First, does power count on the will of the highest authority? The people did not support or support the adoption of the Cohabitation Act. Parliament has gone against the will of the people for the second time in a short time. It's very dangerous. Secondly, those who are in favour of the Cohabitation Act, or against the will of the people, have repeatedly confirmed that this law is required of us by external forces. This means that the role of the Estonian people as the highest authority in the establishment of laws in the Estonian territory will be undermined. Today's practical struggle for sovereignty is, of course, an immigration issue. The question itself is very simple: who decides? Who decides how many people, where, when, for how long and under what conditions can come to Estonia? The response of the conservatives is one: the only decision-maker can be sovereign here. In this context, I would like to stress that, although there is a mountain pile of economic, cultural, security, social and I do not know the arguments in many other areas, it is not really necessary to list them. A single argument is sufficient: the people do not want to. The sovereign doesn't care, that's all. However, the politicians of the government coalition say that we must that, although we made some commitments voluntarily, we would have received a fine if we had not taken them. Some volunteering, huh? Despite all the talk of solidarity and moral obligation, it is not forgotten to refer to one or the other of the sections of the Euro Act, which seem to oblige us to accept immigrants. This leads us back to the issue of sovereignty. If the people do not want to, no euro law will pay anything. It's as simple as that! Or rather, it would be so easy if we had the power of people who are honest with their people and follow the constitution and the will of the people. Sadly, for years now, we have seen a pathetic picture when people are told: "Do not believe your eyes, believe our words. ' Although the Constitution and the Supplementary Law do not allow this, accession to the Treaty of Lisbon, guarantees of Greece's debt, cohabitation law and refugee quotas were made. At the same time, it was always explained that all of this was in accordance with the Constitution and sovereignty. The ravine between reality and rhetoric has become so big that it can no longer be concealed. Hence the social anxiety, the remnants, the discontent with the government, and the distrust of him, and the general hostile atmosphere, because when power and the power-holder, or people, become alienated, they become enemies. If the European Union means paying off the bottomless debts of Greece, a ruthless homopromo, an endless influx of immigrants and, in addition, the sacrifice of freedom of expression through the paragraphs of the hate speech, then it is necessary to ask the sovereign if this is acceptable. We know that the same question is being asked elsewhere. British Prime Minister David Cameron has made it clear that the European Union, which was joined in the 1970s, was so different from today's European Union that a new mandate of the people is needed to be part of today's Union. It is worth noting that even the British believe that sovereignty is the central problem. Cameron has proposed to the rest of the European Union that the decision-making power be withdrawn from Brussels and that the sovereignty of the Member States be restored. To this end, Cameron wants a national parliament to be the highest legislative authority. It wants to restore the supremacy of the national judiciary, to keep immigration clearly under the control of the Member States and to write in the Treaties the possibility of using its own money. Such a European Union would remain within the mandate that the people gave in 2003 and would be significantly less damaging to our fundamental principles than the present Union or the Union, where federalisation is further deepening. It is incomprehensible to me why we do not demand the same things. In the opening speech of the autumn session, the Speaker of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor, apparently referred to our party, who gave us the right to claim that we would protect Estonia and Estonians. One could say that this is not a right, but a constitutional obligation, and not just the duty of our party, but the duty of all Estonian political parties and politicians. But you could also say it like the American President Abraham Lincoln, who, in answer to the question of which side of the U.S. Civil War is God, said he doesn't matter who has God on his side, matters that you're on God's side. So it can be said that no matter which party the people are on, it is important that the party is on the side of the people. If you ask yourself quite honestly, ladies and gentlemen, I believe you will also understand that there are too many parties in this Chamber who are on the side of someone else, but not of their own people. Your oath to the sovereign, your oath to office demands otherwise. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U14	Thank you. Good waitress, you have questions. Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U15	Thank you. I wish to live in the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia in Estonia, where no one is discriminated against because of its gender, age, belief or colour. But the young members of your party have organized great 'train trips'. You have repeatedly made demonstrations where racist, insulting and hateful slogans have sounded. Such activities have been very much carried over by Russian television channels, who have tried to show, just as fascist moods would raise in Estonia. After all, you are a grateful tool for the Russian propaganda machine. Is this what you're aware of?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U16	I didn't understand why you put the word 'travels' around the quotes. I would actually be very happy to listen to the racist slogans or statements you blame us for. I'm pretty sure we have very different concepts of what is or is not an incitement to hatred or racism. If we protect Estonia, if we protect the Estonian people from mixing and fading with others, many believe that this is already an incitement to hatred and racism. That's not how we see it. As far as Russia's propaganda is concerned, we will not go along with this game. Just as we do not go along with the game organised by the Estonian Päevaleht or Delfi. We don't play by the rules that we can't win. Russian propaganda is doing its own Russian propaganda work. I have always been amazed at why there is a great deal of Estonia, say, living in the Russian information field of the party elite. Why are you reading all this, why are you looking at it, why is it affecting you? But I'm going to widen the subject. Are there any hogs that can't be put on the heads of the people in Estonia on the grounds that whoever opposes it is a tibla and a putinist? We've been smeared with the union law saying that Putin doesn't like homosexuals. We're being put on immigration by saying, look, the Russians are restricting immigration. They're selling us a border contract right now. Yesterday, in this very hall, we listened to foreign minister Kaljuranna's talks about why a border treaty was needed. They were, in my opinion, written off by one of the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or the MID. Foreign Minister Kaljurand dealt with the transmission of Russian propaganda to the Estonian Parliament in my view. I just don't agree that if anything we say doesn't please the socialists, it makes us putinists. It's pathetic propaganda.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U17	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U18	Thank you, Honourable Vice Speaker. Good waitress! I would like to mention quickly about the torch tours that it was only yesterday that 15,000 people in Riga took part in the torch tournament on the Latvian Independence Day, which was organised, by the way, by the coalition party. No one in the Estonian government blames Latvians for fascism. So let's not be hypocritical! But when it comes to putinism and Russianism, I'm asking from this angle. Rather, some other parties here have stood out with the very things that are useful to the Russian propaganda machine, either in terms of funding or in terms of improving the position of certain people on the basis of where they come from. What good waitress thinks which political parties have earned the most precisely the interests of Russia's imperialism and thus betrayed Estonia's sovereignty?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U19	Thank you. First, indeed, the torch trains. When I prepared my report, a good colleague, Igor Gräzin, gave me a piece of writing that reminded me of the same time in the 1988 Declaration of Sovereignty. Among other things, he spoke about how in the 1970s Soviet power banned the student torch train in Tartu, as it was an expression of nationalism, or nationalism. When we talk about political parties that promote the interests of Russia in Estonia, the first or the usual suspect is, as we know, the Centre Party. But in my opinion, the most diligent and undisclosed promotion of Russian interests is the Social Democratic Party, which, point by point, implements the Kremlin's long-term plan to establish double citizenship and bilingualism in Estonia and undermine the legitimacy of the state. Let us remind you that the Soviets joined the Russian Party in Estonia a few years ago, whose prominent leaders then explained and still do so, that there has been no occupation. They are also financed by an oligarch of Russian background. So I think that throwing accusations at us is based on the principle that whoever yells the loudest 'Take the thief! ', that's what you should really look at.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U20	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U21	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would first like to begin with this, opponents of respectable sovereignty, that you have betrayed yourself by the fact that most of you are not in the Chamber right now. This shows how you feel about Estonia's sovereignty. Secondly, your last line of defense, when there are no other arguments, are the accusations of being an agent of Putin. Thank you. You are many times more of Putin's minions than anyone else here, as the honourable speaker has proved in essence today. However, the question for the rapporteur is very simple: how in practice can we put sovereignty issues into a referendum?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U22	Thank you. I will come back for a moment to the issue of who is or who are not Russian minions. It should be asked whether the conservative government of Poland, which is now exponentially increasing national defence spending and standing up for its national interests, is indeed a Russian henchmen, after the Polish President has been killed in a plane crash in Russia. Is the Hungarian Government, which is concerned with defending its sovereignty in territorial terms, really a henchman of Russia? Are US Christians, who are similarly anti-gay or anti-gay agenda opponents, to be exact, not homosexuals themselves, also Russian minions? It's just so hollow. As far as referendums are concerned, indeed, the problem is that Estonian laws give a very small opportunity to hold referendums or referendums. To initiate a referendum, 51 votes in favour are needed right here in this Chamber. In Estonia, referendums have been organised exactly twice in 25 years. One was for the Constitution to be put into effect, and the other for the purpose of improving the Constitution, it was the 2003 Constitution Supplementary Act. The answer is very simple. If the people want to exercise more of their power through referendums, they must first support those parties in the elections who are going to reform the electoral system and make a commitment to more referendums. Perhaps in the next elections, the Conservative People's Party must receive 51 seats in Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U23	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U24	Good manager! Good waitress! On November 16, this hall was crowded and there was anxiety in the air. Today, I see that the hall is embarrassingly half empty. I really don't know if it's a matter of indifference to the act of sovereignty. But here's my question. David Cameron, the British Prime Minister, recently came up with a very open letter and stressed the strength of the national parliaments, who should stand up. How would this be possible under Estonian conditions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U25	Thank you. In my understanding, the next few presentations will focus on this issue. When we talk about Cameron, the real point of his plan is indeed that his whole European Union reform package revolves around the issue of sovereignty. Who has power? Who has the right to decide? In the eyes of the British, this is indeed the first thing to go back to the role of the national parliament. We, too, have been talking here about whether we are a rubber stamp for the Brussels directives or whether we are right to say if we do not like some directive, that we are not putting it into force in Estonia. We are right to say that no matter what quotas are agreed, we are not affected. Those are the practical questions. In my speech, I briefly touched on the same subject of the Cohabitation Act. It has been explained to us that the European Union is asking us to do so. Actually, he can't ask us to, but it doesn't matter. If the sovereign, or Estonian people, disagree, all sorts of things may be demanded, but it does not matter. The sovereign disagrees, that's all! As far as Parliament or this Chamber is concerned, it is sad if this debate does not matter to anyone. Well, it matters to those who do. Then the people will draw their own conclusions and be able to express their preferences in the elections. But it is primarily a spiritual attitude, above all a spiritual attitude, whether you believe in yourself, do you believe that this talk about sovereignty and decision - making is really important, or is it just a point of discussion? All I can say about our party and myself is that we believe. In our opinion, this truth is simply a matter of fact, without all buts or months.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U26	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U27	Thank you. Honourable waitress! To reassure your father, if there are few people in the Chamber, it certainly does not reflect the attitude towards sovereignty, but the attitude towards the EKRE. But it was interesting to look at your excitement when it was about Russia and the threats to Estonia's sovereignty from there. I have to say that as a person involved in security policy, I am concerned when, for example, the Hungarian Jobbik Party politician, Béla Kovács, is charged with spying for Russia in his country, or when France talks about massive loans from the far right national front coming from Russia. The fact that the extreme right wing of European policy has close relations with Russia is, in my opinion, a concern. Do you share this concern?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U28	Of course I do. I just want to clarify a few things. Under no circumstances is the French National Front on the right. The platform of the French National Front is so protectionist, high-taxing, that it even makes eyes out to your party. He's clearly a left-wing party, he's just a nationalist, or national socialist, if you like. But we don't have any ties to the French National Front, we don't have any ties to Jobbik. Who are we connected to? We have ties with the British Conservatives, we have ties with the current Hungarian power party, we have ties with Latvia's current power party, Visu Latvija, we have ties with the current Finnish government party, the indigenous Finns. These are the ones we are talking to and who see Europe as an alliance of nation states. Thank you, of course, for the compliment! I understand that the attitude of the Social Democratic Party towards our party is therefore better than average if you are all happy in this Chamber. But if we now come back to the issue of sovereignty and talk about the direction in which the European Union is going, either towards federalisation or towards the United States of Europe, our attitude is similar to Cameron's attitude that it is not invincible, it cannot be ever closer union, or an ever-increasing union, because it is not the will of the peoples in Europe. If we take this matter from the point of view of sovereignty, we must not ask which European Union is being offered to us or what is available, but we must ask what kind of European Union the Estonian people want. And we have to work to achieve that. We must find allies in Europe to achieve such an objective. That's the stuff. I am sure that Russian agents, FSBs, GRUs and KGBs are in almost all of Europe's political upheaval, both in the opposition and in the coalition, regardless of the world view they represent. It's just our era. I think that on this basis, there are some final conclusions to draw or to shape an attitude, let's say, a very narrow and perverse view of sovereignty.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U29	Good waitress, unfortunately, it's been 15 minutes. I thank you both for your report and your answers. I ask for a presentation of the history doctor of the Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Valge!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U30	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm a professional historian, and my professional view may be a justification for trying to get the attention of this high body for 15 minutes. Historians see processes in a longer perspective and in today's politics history plays a strangely ambivalent role. On the one hand, it seems that the past has never been as political and passionate as today, but on the other hand, our societies are considered the most modern-centered, i.e. less historical, of Western civilization. It is quite logical that this strange ambivalence takes strange forms from time to time. We tend at times to associate the ideologies of the past with today's politics, but our President has repeatedly warned that we should not be stuck in the past. True, the message of these warnings is different: the admonition that we will not be able to get back in time. As a historian, a citizen and a voter, I agree with this message as long as it does not extend to the thought that we Estonians should not have our ideals or our historic goals in this globalised era, as if everything were formulated elsewhere for us. First of all, it should be noted that, from a historical perspective, today's globalisation may not be new at all. The world before World War I was more globalized than today. It's just technology, but maybe also political technology, in fact, a surface that misleads us to think that we've reached a time when the aspirations of human nature have changed. The nations have always, at least since the national awakening, sought sovereignty. Even at a time of globalisation, the number of nations' efforts to be sovereign and sovereign in the world has not decreased. On the contrary, it has grown. Here in our old Europe, too, we can observe the proud Catalans and Scots who have long sought independence and whose goals can be fulfilled in our time. However, the aim or ideal is one of the most important elements of the identity of society and the state; its absence would mean, in the long term, the breakdown of society and the loss of state sovereignty. In the near future, the lack of ideal, however, means the need for ever new and new legislation, because members of society without a common identity do not know without precise instructions how to behave in any situation. It has to be admitted that, true, the frameworks in which to achieve their goals have been different at different times. But the frames can still influence the methods of achieving the goals, not the goals themselves. If the frames are narrow, the aim is to achieve maximum in these frames. We must still formulate our own specific objectives on the basis of our pre-conditions, our potential and our character. But no doubt we can find inspiration to formulate our goals, and in some areas we can also find direct examples of the modern world and of the historical vertical space. We find some examples in one place, another in another. Our country-wide objective, as Mr Helme has already pointed out several times, has been formulated in the preamble to our constitution. This is the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture throughout the ages. It has been fixed in all four of our constitutions, formulated almost a hundred years ago. Of course, I do not think that the letter should be stoned forever. But again, we live in a democratic society where everyone has the right to initiate a debate on the Constitution. If the majority of society is to find that it needs to be changed, then it needs to be changed. On the other hand, as long as this is the case, it must be met, otherwise it would be a part of deceiving members of society. This is because those who do it live for the future of Estonia and make sacrifices in the present. After all, we want to be a European state of law, and that is why we must comply with our constitution. If the political elite does not follow our constitution, but comes from somewhere else, then it is also provincial. The province could be regarded as the first phase of the loss of sovereignty, but perhaps also of the break-up of society. The extent of provincialisation cannot undoubtedly be measured by the density of railways or air links going to the metropolis. The province, as Mary Vaino has rightly pointed out, is a spiritual state, not a geographical one. This manifests when people think that they are lagging behind, being a hillbilly, they feel inferior. Of course, the province cannot have its own goals, since the province is being formulated elsewhere, either in the national metropolis or in the case of spiritual provincialization, where it is considered a metropolis. Often, the name of this spiritual metropolis is Europe in our provincial mouth. But, in essence, it does not mean the rich spirit and pluralistic democratic culture of the provincial Europe, but actually one of the anti-national policies. It is particularly pathetic, however, to come to power with the slogan 'Pride over Estonia', but in power it is announced that it is a shame for its Estonian people. In my opinion, a closer link between those in power and society could be established in order to organise a referendum on the right of initiative. I recall that between the two world wars we had the right to do so until Konstantin Päts carried out a coup and undemocratically introduced a new constitution. I do not believe under any circumstances that our society would be less mature today for direct democracy than at the time. However, if the only argument for a political step is that somewhere else maybe it is, and we need to look similar, again, despite our preconditions and possibilities, or if we fail to take the necessary step, justifying that there is no such thing or that it is not European or that our reputation falls in the eyes of someone, then I believe that these are the arguments of a classical provincial. For example, the experience of the integration of the population of foreign origin could, in fact, be shared by us ourselves with Western European countries, because we started mass immigration earlier and the proportion of the population of foreign origin is higher. Of course, background knowledge about other countries is also needed in the discussion. But the argument that somewhere else in this imaginary metropolis there are many new immigrants with a different skin color cannot be an argument for the choice. This attitude and behaviour is known in Estonian history, where others are admired and they want to be someone else, a juniper carriage. In the event of voluntary spiritual provincialisation, it is often attempted to be more progressive or aggressive than the metropolis itself. True, it mostly turns out to be pathetic, both on the one hand and on the other. According to Salomo Heinrich Vestring's Estonian-German dictionary, the juniper German is not only half German, but also a fool. As meaningless as feeling nostalgia for what never existed, i.e. idealizing your history, it is actually from the surface of the contempt of your people to idealize other societies, whether in the East or in the West, like our June Communists, to feel nostalgia for what is not present. I will draw up the history of the parliament of the Republic of Estonia in the last period of independence, and I must say that this was a very dynamic time when the delegates had to make very responsible decisions on their own. Believe me, the Members of this Parliament were in great measure very similar to you. There were admirable analytical and eloquences, accurate estimates that could withstand the test of time. But what to deny there was also self-confident emptying and pointless intrigue, unfortunately also in cases where political goals were the same. In the meantime, the political, economic and technological circumstances that have changed very quickly distinguish between the Republic of Estonia and the two world wars. The changed circumstances, of course, make direct comparisons difficult in many facets of society, or if these facets are comparable, as a double comparison, so that we compare Estonia of our time with other countries and today with other countries. In areas where these comparisons can be made on the basis of economic and population figures, it appears that Estonia was more successful than Estonia was today. I do not see that awareness of this or the pursuit of similar success today is somehow a thing of the past or of nostalgism. But one thing is directly comparable, though not to figures. It's a mentality. I am saying that today, the extent of provincialisation, i.e. judaka, is steeply greater for us and the confidence of society, but especially of politicians, is sharply lower. We are accustomed to saying that we have no competence to resolve or take a position on one or another of these issues. As a historian, I would always like to ask where this competence has been lost in the meantime. For example, if Eesti Pank, with a few dozen employees in Estonia, carried out a very complex monetary policy, why do we now think that we would not be able to do so? I also believe that provincialization is one of the reasons why the achievements of the current period of independence are smaller than those of inter-World War Estonia. Province or juniper taxation amplifies political correctness, produces what Indrek Hargla has called the anger of his people, and makes it painful to deal with certain issues, excludes the search for alternatives, the possibility of settling all choices, also excludes fruitful analysis. Honourable representatives of the people! As a historian, I could declare that national societies are much longer-lived than political or economic models, none of which are the crown of human civilization development. I do not think I am exaggerating when I say that today's world is more unstable than it has been in recent decades, and instability shows not signs of shrinking but of growing. So today, we need sober judgment and freedom of thought, without prejudice to provincialism, more than in the recent past. We also need common objectives because, in the case of politicians, the lack of a common goal also means the inability to achieve better results through discussion. If anyone is in doubt about our country's main objective, the Constitution must be read again. I believe that our Estonian nation, culture and language are also necessary for Europe, because the power of Europe is in diversity. Let's not turn our country into a province without an identity! I am convinced that the historians of the future will write about your activities in Estonian, and I hope that they will be able to evaluate their subject at least as positively as I am to the Estonian Parliament between the two World Wars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U31	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U32	Good manager! Good waitress! My question is short. Has Estonia lost its sovereignty or is it losing it, and do you think it is inevitable or what we can do here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U33	Thank you. This is, to a large extent, a matter of definitions. I think that Estonia has certainly not lost its sovereignty. Whether what is currently under way is the first phase of a possible loss of sovereignty, or whether it is the creation of preconditions for that, I find it difficult to say. Really, it's a definition question. Is it inevitable? It's certainly not inevitable. As I mentioned earlier, even in the context of globalisation, even if the same major trend in the world should continue as it is now, or deepen, sovereignty can and must be preserved. But most generally, in answering your last question, I would say the same thing: to be aware of what we are and who we are, and to avoid spiritual provincialization.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U34	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. White, for your enjoyable presentation. The Free Party has certainly come here to prevent the Riigikogu from being provinced. Now the question. You spoke about direct democracy and the public initiative. We have a format such as the right to petition initiated here since last year. It is possible to appeal to the Riigikogu with a thousand signatures, and then the Riigikogu commission must deal with this issue in some way. Have you heard that this has produced any positive results? If so, which ones, and if not, why not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U36	Thank you. I have not heard that it has produced any major positive results. But why isn't it? Because this right of petition is a petition right. However, the right of popular initiative to hold a referendum is something else. After all, this means that if a certain number of signatures are collected for an initiative, the legislator is obliged to put it in a referendum and the outcome of the referendum is mandatory for the legislator. I think that the right to petition has not worked properly, perhaps because society simply does not see that it can lead to major changes. Maybe I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U37	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U38	Thank you, President-in-Office. Jaak, thank you very much for a very good and really thoughtful presentation! What attributes of our independence do you think I use such a stupid and ugly foreign word, perhaps by drawing parallels in the thirty's, most dissipated or threatened?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U39	I still think that when we talk about the influence of our legal space on the effects that come from elsewhere, and if it should now be as the basis of everything and the result of our citizenship and immigration policies, as well as economic policy, it can reflect a move beyond sovereignty. Above all, I am thinking that our legislation is too much affected by the effects from elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U40	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U41	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Thank you, Professor. The report was about globalisation, that there have been periods in history when globalisation was even more intense. Today, we are told that globalisation is inevitable, it is unmistakable and it only deepens. What could the historical perspective tell us about the level of globalisation and the future trend? So, is it inevitable, inevitable, and progressive?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U42	The historical perspective says that globalisation is more like cycles or waves. The era between the two world wars is clearly considered to be the era of de globalisation, then globalisation went back as it did. I don't want to say in any way that I would idealize any time or something. However, this time will show that such developments are entirely possible. Between the two world wars, perhaps a little paradoxically, the inequality of countries in the world even diminished, despite the so-called globalisation. This means that globalisation is not a historical inevitability from anywhere above, or some kind of Marxist pattern, but a sign of our present times, which can change very quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U43	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U44	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear History Doctor Jaak White, thank you for your excellent, very accurate and meaningful speech. You also touched on the Constitution and on the wish of the people to change the Constitution if necessary. Do you think that the current Constitution is sufficient for Estonia in terms of sovereignty? Is it being followed enough? Would it need to be changed and, if necessary, in which direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U45	Thank you. In terms of sovereignty, I think the Constitution is enough. However, I myself believe that the Constitution should be amended so that it should include the right of initiative for referendums. This would not really concern the sovereignty of the state, but it would increase the role of society or the people as sovereign in shaping the country's decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U46	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U47	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have to start with a comment. Here today was linked to a lack of interest in half-empty hall sovereignty. Maybe some vigilante doesn't know there's a TV in every office. I followed Martin Helme's speech very closely in my office. But, waitress, thank you very much for your presentation. That was very interesting. Now my question. In the business world, the rule is, if you don't adapt to the market, you're gonna be broke. The battle is the same: if you don't improvise by following the changes in the battle situation, you'll soon be dead. How should we adapt to change in a changing world while maintaining our face?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U48	Thank you. The general response is still the same that we must undoubtedly follow a possible political framework, but not forget our goal. I think Kurt Vonnegut once said relatively well that you should deal with things that you can change and accept things that you cannot change.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U49	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U50	Thank you. Dear waitress, I, too, will join the praise speech. A somewhat inspiring speech, although it is not possible to agree with everything. When I listened to the previous speaker and your presentation, it seemed to me that we could make the mistake of misdiagnosing ourselves. Helme and all this populist company behind me are putting a very loud misdiagnosis on our sovereignty, our values and everything else. You said, as a professor, I'd rather warn you that we could become an unidentified province. Such a false diagnosis in itself creates a normal complex. My question to you as a historian is this. You look back, but I think our problem is that we have a very small ability to anticipate the future. I'm not talking about designing it and adapting to it. How do you look as a historian...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U51	So the question is...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U52	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U53	Please, good waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U54	Yes, I must first comment on the fact that I am not a professor at the University of Tartu. I'm a professor at another university, but I'm not a professor at the University of Tartu. I understood your question about whether our forward-looking perspective today is shorter than it has been before. If that was your question, then my answer is yes. We are more modern-minded and maybe we tend to think too much that the economic model and invisible forces regulate our activities so, perhaps, and our function is only not to interfere. That may be where the lack of ambition and vision is due.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U55	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U56	Mr. Waitress! I think in a situation like this, it's a good thing to do with you, even if you've been on top of each other for decades. I listened to your speech, but I didn't quite understand. You, or you and someone else, will have a study or a book that will include the Estonian Parliament before the Second World War or the history of Estonian parliamentarianism. I have missed such a thing enormously in my political and public activities. This is very important information and a message of joy to me. Can you be a little more specific about what and when it's getting ready?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U57	Thank you for your wonderful question. Indeed, the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has commissioned such a study and I have to comply with this order. Maybe some Master's students will help me out a little bit. This work must be done in an exceptionally short period of time; I must complete it in a year and a half, of which it has been two months now. After that, the printing cycle is likely to begin and other things will begin, which will inevitably have to be carried out before the physical appearance of the book. I hope you will be able to read this book in about two years' time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U58	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Good Jack! Very pleasant, nice, meaningful, setting the right goals and thinking was your presentation. My question leads us to Linnart Mäll. He used the great term "village mystery." Do you think and to what extent this term introduced by Linnart Mäll could be linked to, or characterized by, provincialism?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U60	Thank you. I imagine he used it as the opposite of province. He meant that those villagers who discuss world affairs with each other will, in common sense, also get more accurate results in forecasting the future than we can if we allow ourselves to be influenced elsewhere and therefore make our predictions. I think that might have been the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U61	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable performer! There have often been a number of expressions in this Chamber that Estonia does not comply with the precepts and laws given by Brussels at the required speed. As a scientist, how do you think the Riigikogu should behave to get out of this mess?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U63	The very first thing is to read the Preamble to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U64	Good waitress, thank you for your report and your answers. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu by the lecturer of the Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu and the Chairman of the Management Board Varro Vooglaiu for the Protection of the Family and Tradition of the Foundation!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U65	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear members of the Riigikogu, as far as you are concerned! I would like to begin by thanking the Estonian Conservative People's Party for raising the topic of the debate on national sovereignty and inviting me to share ideas on this issue. This is a matter of critical importance for the future of our country, which would require several times more and more attention. In thinking on what to focus on in my presentation today, I decided not to draw up an academic approach to the development and meaning of the concept of sovereignty, but to use the opportunity to speak here to express concerns in the minds and hearts of many people for the future of our country, nation and country. I'll start with a simple statement. There is no need for tanks, fighters, or cannons to defeat one nation or state. It is sufficient to break the moral backbone and cultural identity of the people and to instill in people that their future is inevitably determined and that the people do not have the opportunity to change it. Thus, no nation will benefit from military reconstruction or the consolidation of national borders while at the same time the dismantling of its cultural values, undermining its identity and moral breakdown is taking place. Therefore, the greatest threat to any country or nation is not an alien enemy, but its own moral decline and the consequent loss of internal strength. Against this background, there is serious concern that the mental attitude of the Estonian political and administrative elite, which is not appropriate to the independent state, is taking on an ever-wide scale. As Veiko Vihuri stated last week, one of Estonia's main problems in the 21st century has been the inability of the social-political elite to believe that Estonia could survive and cope as a truly free and independent state. Or, as Professor Tõnu Lehtsaar recently wrote, worryingly pointing out that statehood seems to have become a haunting yoke for some: "We believed that we could do it on our own. Today we are constantly being told that we alone have no hope, economically, morally, politically or militaryly. ' Indeed, it has been said repeatedly in public that Estonia cannot remain free and independent, but must choose between belonging to the sphere of influence of the East or the West. It is claimed that there is no third, Estonia's own way, and there cannot be. On the one hand, it is of course necessary to take account of geopolitical reality, but on the other hand, what is most important from the point of view of our own statehood may also be lost: true freedom and independence. Let us be honest, a large part of Estonia's independence has gone today. European Union law has been declared superior to Estonian law, and the majority of legal regulation is said to come directly or indirectly from Brussels. This harsh reality cannot infinitely be embellished by the talk of sharing sovereignty. We have also lost the right to fiscal sovereignty, or self-determination. Our monetary policy, which is the foundation of all economic activities underlying the national material base, is controlled by the European Central Bank and Swedish commercial banks. In security policy too, our political leadership seems to have renounced the objective of creating prerequisites for Estonia to achieve its independent defence capability. The entire field of national defence is oriented towards merging into a global transatlantic network. It seems to me that the political elite itself often fuels fears to gain greater support for such a policy. These fears are being exploited in order to give Estonian independence more and more to security. However, it would be essential to look for an answer to the question of how far we are prepared to go to renounce our beliefs, our principles and our independence in the interests of security. Are we ready to give up our independence in the final stage so that only the chance to live a life of habit remains? Or have we already done so to a large extent, leaving only political structures to ourselves, but not the opportunity to decide through them what is really important? If we want to be a great and truly independent nation from the soul, we need to focus first and foremost not on how to confront or please one or the other superpower, but on maintaining, preserving, cultivating and respecting the principles and values that form the core of being an Estonian. The prerequisite for Estonia's independence is faith in its will and ability to cope in this world by acting with dignity as a state and nation, based primarily on what is right and good in its decisions, not on how to make pragmatic political adjustments. Although belief in the possibility of Estonia's independence is often seen among the people, it is not easy to identify it in the behaviour of the political elite. Indeed, the gap between the people and the ideological elite has become dangerously large and, unfortunately, it is only expanding. This, in turn, has led to a division of society, and it often seems that someone's goal is to fight people and to increase social tension. At the same time, it seems to me that there would be no in-depth division of society, nor would there be, if the political elite were to be guided not by ideological attractions but by respect for the fundamental values of our culture. The Prime Minister and the members of his office should ask himself sincerely whether they are representatives of the Estonian people before the Brussels authorities or representatives of the Brussels authorities before the Estonian people. It seems self-evident to me that in a country which has defined itself as a democracy by the Constitution, the decision on the most serious and most divisive issues should be based on the will of the majority of the people. In other words, if we want to live in a country with a democratic organisation, democratic principles must actually be applied, not only pretending to respect them. There is no point in talking empty words about Estonia as a democratic state until the people have been given back their right to initiate drafts and referendums because of the alleged serious illness of the people in 1934. It is clear that Estonia can lose its national independence without being externally visible. In addition to other symbols, the Tall Hermann Tower can wave blue black and white even when we no longer have national independence. It is in this sense that our situation is now much more insidious and dangerous than at the time of the Soviet occupation, when it was clear to all honest people that independence had been robbed of us. Today it seems difficult to deny that freedom fell so far on unprepared soil in Estonia that it was not able to handle it properly. As a result, we are not now faced with the question of whether we will be among the five richest, happiest and most educated countries in Europe over the next 20 years, but will be forced to answer the question of how to survive as a nation and country in general. This issue is particularly relevant in the context of the demographic crisis. The words of Professor Taagepera come to mind that this nation survived the black plague, as well as the red one, but freedom tends to overwhelm. In order to preserve and consolidate Estonia's independence, our political elite must be able to act willing to serve for a common goal. It is necessary to humbly serve the country, the nation, and the country, in a literal sense, to be literally the servant of the people. Only those who cultivate and maintain such virtues as wisdom, justice, manliness, moderation, but also humility, kindness, and generosity can hope that they will have some authority and right to talk about the moral right to be in the leadership of people or the whole country. Any respect must be earned by courageous and dignified actions. It cannot be negotiated. In my opinion, Estonia is truly independent only if we can stand firm even without outside help and if we sincerely believe that we are willing to die rather than renounce our independence. As a friend of my army officer has said: "Selfhood, that is, the right to stand by itself, and freedom comes not from the grace of the allies, but from the willingness of the righteous, honest, determined, humble, kind, and generous men and women to stand alone and give in to nothing important and, if necessary, to fall without retreat. " This is the path of true freedom and the spiritual attitude that underpins national independence. Let us, let us cultivate and respect this in order to preserve an independent Estonian state. Let us feel our responsibility as servants of the people and the state, and let us be worthy of it, because it is immeasurably easier to play down independence than to restore it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U66	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U67	Thank you for this presentation. First of all, as a comment, it is very important from the perspective of the future of the people, what value space we identify with and what value space we want to strive for. We never live in the perfect country. But I want to ask you about your statement a few weeks ago in Delfi. I quote your sentence: 'Estonia is bound with Russia by a common sense of the world, respect for the family and moral values. " That sentence shocked many admirers of your talents. I would like to ask you how you have come to understand that Russia, after 70 years of Stalinist terror and communist brainwashing, actually stands for the Christian sense of the world and Christian values, and the prevailing attitude in this society is respect for the family and moral values.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U68	Thank you for your question. First of all, you didn't quote me exactly. If you look at my article, you will see that the thought was presented in a significantly different way. But for that, I understood your question anyway. For the specific sentence I said there, I am prepared to take full responsibility. I believe that Estonia and Russia are undoubtedly bound by important values. Is there anyone in this Chamber who says that our countries are not bound by any common values? With this quote, too, I meant that we cannot take such a neurotic view that we are throwing everyone aside and saying that there are no common values, that the common value is not the fatherland, the family, marriage, raising children, sincerity, honesty or industriousness. After all, these are universal human values, which are central values for all peoples who live in a society that is built on a very healthy foundation. How can we deny that? At the same time, I do not think we can accept blindly everything the West offers us. Here, too, we must apply the criteria of reason and assess what are the good things that come from there and what are the mistakes that come from there. Nobody's denying there's going to be one or the other. But I do not think it is wise to start chopping like iron, that we have no common values at all with our neighbours. Of course, there are problems, of course there are difficulties, of course there are many things in Russia's behaviour that must be condemned very clearly and condemned, but at the same time, I think we must also try to see a common part and, as far as possible, grow it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U69	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U70	Thank you. As a servant of the people, I ask a manly but still anxious and humble question. In the media and in this Chamber today, there has been repeated the statement that Putini Russia is financing European extreme right-wing organisations. In your recent article, you emphasised the common values of Russia and Estonia, even the basic moral values. That's what it said. The articles from many years ago about the alleged origin of Russia's funding for your organization were remembered. Has the foundation you manage received support from Russia to promote common values? In that case, is this the lost freedom you spoke of?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U71	I don't even know where to start. First of all, I do not think that this is a question at all, because you know very well what my answer is. I have said so many times publicly that every possible case turned out to be as if the protection of the family and tradition of the SA had somehow received any support from the Russian authorities, whether financial or other, is completely baseless and false. I don't know how many times you have to keep asking me that question. That is also why I think this is not a question. Such a question undoubtedly does not reflect any kind of statesmanship, humility, or willingness to serve, because it is based on a condescending desire for disparage and stigmatisation. In my opinion, of course, it is thought-provoking in itself that quite a number of people among our political elite are unable to grasp at all that anyone can stand up for their beliefs, values and the cultural traditions of the Estonian people without being some kind of Russian henchmen. It is, in my opinion, a miserable spiritual attitude that is reflected in such a view or assessment. Returning to your question more specifically, I remember that you personally were also the one who once expressed the view that the Defence Police should do their job with regard to the protection of the family and tradition of the SA. Since you expressed that view, I remember the year of the Circa. I believe that if the defense police had any reason to do their job on our foundation, he would have done it already. That's all I have to answer for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U72	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U73	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I ask you directly: what are the opportunities to preserve Estonia's sovereignty within the framework of the European Union? Is that possible? What, then, should we understand under sovereignty when you said that the blue black-white flag could fly in the Long Hermann Tower, but that there might not be sovereignty?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U74	Thank you for your question. This is a big and important issue. In order to give it a thoughtful answer, it would probably take a little more time than this one second to think. But I think that the starting point could be the principles on which Estonia has joined the European Union at all. After all, we have agreed that we belong to the European Union if it is in accordance with the fundamental values and principles of our constitution. In other words, under no circumstances should we accept that membership of the European Union will be made conditional on us in such a way that we are forced to retreat from the fundamental values and cultural traditions of our constitution. For example, we have seen this clearly, and we still see it in the context of the debate on the Cohabitation Act, when we were constantly told that if we still want to belong to the European Union, if we want to belong to the Western cultural space, we must adopt the view that a family can also be made up of someone other than a man and a woman. I think it's blackmail tactics. If we succumb to such tactics, we will lose what we could call real independence, or the right to decide for ourselves how to organise things in this country. After all, the European Union was initially a very clear economic union. We have nothing against being in a single economic space, we have nothing against being free movement of goods and services, and we have nothing against being free movement of people. But, as far as I am concerned, we have not joined the European Union in order to be briefed on the way in which we should also radically rewrite the life of our society in the ideological and moral values. This is my summary answer to you. If we maintain a spiritual attitude inherent in a free country and let ourselves sit on our heads, judging things that no one has the right to sit in our heads, then we will be able to maintain sovereignty.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U75	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U76	Thank you. Good waitress! You have spoken very right words here about the values common to other nations. But when we talk about Estonia as a country's sovereignty, we must still bear in mind the country's relations and common values with other countries. That is why I ask what common values you think we can have with the KGB officer who is leading Russia, who attacks his smaller neighbours and enjoys the support of his people at 90%.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U77	I do not necessarily mean at all that we should talk about common values at the level of our political leadership. I am talking in a much broader sense about common values at the general cultural level. I'm not going to repeat what I said before. On a global cultural level, we have a common part with all the peoples of Europe. Who could deny it? Of course, as I said before, we must be very vigilant in not approving all the possible violations of international law that we see in Russia. We need to be vigilant so that we do not accept certain ambitions that are incompatible with international law and moral values. But at the same time, I want to say that we must not become narrow-minded. This is precisely because we only see what distinguishes us, but we no longer see what could unite us, except from an economic point of view. After all, the politics of the Estonian state have also been directed at the fact that, as far as the economy is concerned, we should see the common part, but in everything else it should not be done, otherwise it will be like a traitor. I think it is important not to adopt such a neurotic attitude. In geopolitical terms, too, I think we should think that a situation where a large and strong man is standing behind us may not always remain this way. For its part, there is no point in taking steps that strain relationships, intensifying conflicts and opening wounds even more. At some point we must also be prepared to be responsible for everything we have done or failed to do on our own.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U78	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U79	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, These spiteful questions that are being asked are, of course, ridiculous. The same people who accuse the waitress of being a Russian agent fully accept the interference of foreign diplomats in our internal affairs. They accept that European money is used to make homo-propaganda, that all kinds of non-profit institutions and foundations are maintained. This, in their opinion, is not a violation of sovereignty. The question for the waitress is very simple. You started with the fact that the state will not remain independent when the value system breaks down. What are the signs of the degradation of the value system?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U80	First of all, if someone thinks I'm a Russian agent, it would be very gratifying if he said it out loud, and he would stick to what he said. I think this is basically an important question. There is no point in implying any form of question. If anyone has any facts or information, get it out, and if it isn't, keep your mouth shut. It's that simple. Where do we see that the degradation of values has led to a threat to our national independence? I think that the main place where we see it is the very serious, deep and potentially catastrophic demographic crisis in Estonian society. Everyone in this hall probably knows that at least a quarter less children are born each year in Estonia than would be necessary to maintain the level of population reproduction. Again, I refer to Professor Rein Taagepera, who has repeatedly called the alarm bell very seriously because of this problem. According to him, we are at risk of falling into a demographic toilet. Recently, we have heard how at least a rhetorical attempt has been made to patch up the demographic pit precisely by justifying opening doors to immigration, so that, since we do not have enough children ourselves, either way or otherwise, to survive as a nation and country, we need to start thinking about where to bring more people. I don't think it's necessary to be a psychic or a genius to realize that if we already embrace the idea that we don't have children and we don't have children, we're not going to have children, and that's how the population is shrinking and shrinking and there's nothing to do, then we've already accepted that we're gonna stop being and that's it. I see no reason why our political leaders, the President, the Prime Minister, but also the people in this very Chamber of the Riigikogu could not take a very clear view that this must be our national priority number 1: we have to deal with considerably more children! What should we do to create in society the preconditions that people would like to receive children, they would be able to receive children, and they would be able to cope if they had received children? I have not heard many such debates in this Chamber. I have not seen any national campaigns that, for example, highlight family values that show that having children is dignified, raising children is dignified, that is why we respect and recognise people in this society. You know, being a mother is a value in yourself without having to be a prominent official or something like that. In short, my time is running out, otherwise I could answer this question for a long time, I think it could be one of the most important priorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U81	Good waitress, thank you for your report and your answers. Please report to Henn Põllea, Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U82	Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my presentation with a reminder of the main features of the sovereign state. Statehood is based on so-called three whales: territory, independent legislation and people. In other words, the state is a universal political form formed by the unity of the people, territory and legislation through which sovereign power is realized. It is the duty of the state to stand up for and protect all these three features. None of them will be able to retreat without losing sovereignty. We have already experienced this in our history. Today, however, we are forced to admit that our power of state is retreating in all three aspects above. No care is given to the territorial integrity of the state in the border agreement. There is no care for people's well-being - emigration and demographic crisis. The European Union's interests and legislation are not concerned about the primacy of the Constitution. State policy must be based on national interests and values on which objectives, arguments, internal and external policies and strategies are established. What are our interests? Are values and politics not mutually exclusive concepts? Absolutely not. Estonia must stand for real European values, such as democracy, equality, nationhood and culture, sovereignty, family values, morale, etc. If we follow these categories, there is no contradiction between politics and values. Unfortunately, we are feared to differ from a Europe that loses multicultural morality and traditional values, which is therefore in an unprecedented crisis and is reeling from every seam. National policy choices are not justified by rational arguments, not to mention critical analysis. There's no reference to real motivation. The protection of Estonia's interests is shy and perceived as contrasting, and the original policy aimed at sovereignty, national statehood and values has been replaced by the uncritical acceptance of recommendations from foreign interests and the European Union's guidelines. The behaviour of Estonia is cowardly, sluggish and cynical. All of this creates great internal tension. Now from the territory of the first attribute of statehood. Estonia defends the territorial integrity of other countries, such as Georgia and Ukraine, condemns the occupation and annexation of these areas. That's the way it's supposed to be. At the same time, however, more than 10,000 Estonian citizens will be left behind in the occupied areas without any external threat, voluntarily abandoning their territory. I asked Prime Minister Rõivas when he was appointed whether he would also stand up for the territorial integrity of Estonia. The answer was laconic: I'm not going. Turns out he's a man of his word, at least in this matter. International law makes no difference whether the occupation and annexation took place 50 years or one year ago. It's a timeless crime. The conclusion of the new border agreement legitimises the occupation and annexation of our territories and confirms that Russia has never occupied Estonia. This sets a precedent which gives the Russian Federation an implicit justification for the occupation and annexation of Crimea. Estonia behaves in a two-faced and cynical manner: in words, we support international law and the principle of territorial integrity, we support sanctions, we actively speak out, while we stab our friends in the back and send encouraging signals to the Kremlin that all their violations, crimes and aggression will sooner or later be approved. If, in the past, it was argued that without a new border agreement, we would not become a member of the European Union or NATO and that our relations and security would improve with this agreement, we know today that these claims were based on a lie. We are members of the European Union and NATO. Latvia's relations and security have not improved since the conclusion of the border agreement. Now it is claimed that the border agreement will allow a certain border to be built and that it will strengthen our security, we will also get one old thing off the table. There are no more arguments. I'm sorry, but this approach is, to put it mildly, childish. The temporary control line has long been established, it is guarded and border facilities are already being built. It is not necessary to break Estonia's territorial integrity and to give away lands and hundreds of billions of our mineral resources to our hostile country. Instead, the question is why independent border guards were eliminated, the border was not built earlier and the Pskov spetsnaz units were allowed to infiltrate the border and conduct diversion exercises here. Today's situation is different than a few years ago, and we must act in this context. Neither the new border treaty nor any garden will strengthen our security. Ukraine had a border agreement and even Russian security guarantees. Rather, our security would be strengthened by the restoration of professional and military border guards. There are no political, economic or other reasons to abandon the limits of Tartu's peace. Selmet must repeat that Estonia does not have territorial requirements, it must be stressed that Russia has illegal territorial demands against Estonia, that 5.2% of Estonia's territory is occupied and annexed to it just like Crimea. But the mouth is full of water. Do you really believe that after that mouthful, Russia will leave us alone? In a situation where Russia attacks other countries, whistles at international law, conventions and agreements, it is unthinkable to conclude a border agreement. Territorial donations are not made to a country that does not recognise the peace of Tartu or our right to self-determination, and who brazenly declares that Estonia belongs to its sphere of interest. The new border agreement smells like treason, because the only one in whose interest it is is is Russia. The treaty is kind of a litmus test to determine who defends the Kremlin's interests on Toompea. I've reached another whale, the people. The purpose and main task of the Estonian state are laid down in the Constitution. This is to preserve Estonian nationality, language and culture and Estonian sovereignty for the sake of common success and future. It is the responsibility of all public institutions to carry out this task. The success of the state must be assessed from the point of view of how and to what extent this objective will be implemented and this commitment will be fulfilled. Unfortunately, the indicators do not indicate that the target is being met. The preservation of the Estonian people is threatened by negative birth rates, emigration, immigration pressures and other factors. Measures adopted against the population crisis are not enough to bring the birth rate back to the level of parenthood, child benefits, needs-based benefits, paternity leave, parental pensions and others. There's a quarter of births missing. This is not a sustainable decline, as President Ilves confirms, but an existential crisis that is not addressed. There is no population policy and institutions that deal with the problems of demographics every day. We need a crisis plan and a development model that guarantees growth and the possibility of life anywhere in Estonia. The emptying of rural areas must be halted, domestic entrepreneurship must be supported, young families must be helped to acquire a home, to encourage raising children and return to their homeland, to support traditional family values, etc. Action must be taken immediately and at all costs. The fact that there is not enough money for our people, enough to support a richer Greece than us, and enough to overgold refugees, shows the attitude of the authorities. The survival of the Estonian people is obviously not important, because otherwise the 'newest Estonians' whose origin does not matter would not be spoken of as a solution. If there is ever a people from the Middle East or Africa who have a different religion, customs and cultural background, who can speak even Estonian on the right, they are no longer Estonians. The Constitution clearly states that the task and purpose of the Estonian state is to preserve and preserve the Estonian language, nationality and culture. Note: Maintain, not transform! This means that the Estonians of the future, our grandchildren, their children and grandchildren are the same as us, bearing our cultural traditions, respecting the same standards of morality and ethics and values as we do. It is a constitutional obligation to ensure and protect such a situation. An important part of this patriotic upbringing is here. Yes, nations naturally change, we are not the same people today as we were a hundred years ago, but this is a natural development. What took place during the Russification period or what is being undertaken by mass immigration now qualifies as genocide. If there are no Estonian people, we can no longer talk about Estonia and sovereignty. Those who advocate replacing the declining population and emigration with immigrants agreed to the quota set by the European Commission and refuse to set a cap on it, act against the Constitution and against the right of the Estonian people to self-determination. The same applies to the requirement to introduce another national language. Third whale: an independent right. Over the last ten years, the European Union has moved strongly towards federalisation. Brussels's decision-making powers and competences have been increased at the expense of the sovereignty of the Member States. This is no longer the European Union we have entered. We can see how federalisation is increasingly opposed and the country after the country wins the elections by conservative parties. England's attempt to return to the original sources of the European Union and to increase the sovereignty of the Member States is very welcome and undoubtedly coincides with Estonia's interests. British conservativeness is in a good way contagious. Today, most laws come from Brussels. The Euro Directive is supreme, no matter how stupid it is to determine the curve of a banana, to classify carrots as fruit, or to prohibit our farmers from spreading manure in the heart of winter, which no host does. Instead of assessing the issues of euro law, treaties and national sovereignty on the basis of the Constitution, the yokk schemes try to twist the meaning of the Constitution, the primacy of which is no longer spoken. The Supreme Court issued a declaration of accession to the ESM, which confirmed that the mandate to give up the sovereignty acquired from the people upon entering the European Union has been exhausted. Any subsequent surrender of decision-making or competence will require the people to consent by referendum. Instead, we read in the government's new framework document on European Union policy that Estonia will continue to support the strengthening of the European Union institutions and giving them additional competences, i.e. reducing Estonia's sovereignty. The Prime Minister expressed his wish a few days ago, performing in the Riigikogu. Can the country be governed by a government that works to reduce our decision-making and national sovereignty? The concept of sovereignty, which treats the country's internal and external freedom of action as timeless, is not obsolete. Whether we are a sovereign state and remain a sovereign state is a question of choice. It all depends on what we want. Do you decide your own affairs, to be master of your own country, to determine your own future, your own people, and the future of your country? Or are we obedient servants of the law and those who carry out the interests of organizations and nations in other countries? Is the European Union a Union of sovereign states or a Federation? The statement 'Estonia is an independent and independent democratic republic, in which the highest power is exercised by the people' means that no one has the right to make this choice for us. The people have not given up their right to self-determination or national sovereignty. The government does not have the authority to reduce, transfer or transfer them. The violation of our sovereignty and that of the other members of the European Union is damaging not only Estonia, but the whole of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U83	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U84	Good manager! Good speaker! You, as well as your previous speakers, had the impression that'real sovereignty' is what basically keeps us away from being part of the European Union and NATO. It was said that it is bad that we share the European area of justice, because it forces us to oppose some of the great powers, probably Russia. We're blending into transatlantic structures. Mr Vooglaid explicitly suggested a 'third way', probably then between the European Union and Russia. There are a number of countries in Europe that have tried this third route, such as Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine, under the pressure of circumstances. Do you and your thinkers not think that Estonia's membership of the European Union and NATO is in Estonia's national interest? If possible, would you put this issue back to the referendum that you have repeatedly proposed as the highest form of democracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U85	It seems to me that you absolutely did not listen to what my previous speaker and I said. Neither of us mentioned NATO in half a word; neither of us said that being part of NATO or the European Union would mean that Estonia was not a sovereign republic. Please don't put such fiction in our mouths! Of course, I certainly welcome Estonia's membership of both the European Union and NATO. This is extremely necessary, this is extremely good. It is only a question of whether the European Union is now what it was created, a Union of sovereign states, or whether it is moving towards the Federation. That's the question. To belong to any union or organization means to give up some sovereignty, to give up some authority. It's natural. But there is a limit to all things that cannot be crossed, the red line from which the question arises as to whether or not the state is sovereign anymore. We're talking about this border. You don't want to put your vision in our mouths.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U86	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'll ask you briefly. How do you think that Estonia would be able to maintain the so-called real sovereignty as a member of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U88	There's no complicated recipe here. Estonia must know and know that it is an independent sovereign state, and the representatives of the Estonian state, the government, must be guided by it. Estonia has not entered the European Union or anywhere else with the clause that we automatically take over all the 'values', the conditions, the precepts. We joined the European Union as a sovereign state among other sovereign states. We have to act on this. We've got our role models. England is trying to return to the fundamental values of the European Union. There are other countries. So that we are not alone at all, we need not be afraid that we will be looked at in a wrong way. Rather, it will be when we agree with everything without criticism if we do everything we are told, without regard to our own national interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U89	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U90	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good Henn! I would add to Eerik-Niles Kross that the third route is also Switzerland and Norway. But you, Henn, spent a long time in your presentation on the border treaty. In yesterday's Question Time, Foreign Minister Kaljurand confirmed several times that we need a border agreement, because we do not currently have a border agreement with Russia. How do you say we don't have it, but we need it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U91	It's hard to say otherwise when it's a pure lie. The Tartu Peace Treaty is in force, the Tartu Peace Treaty is also a border agreement and the Tartu Peace Treaty is listed in the UN Register of International Agreements in force. Anyone can control it. The fact that Russia unilaterally claims that it will not accept it does not invalidate the Tartu Peace Treaty. The Vienna Convention does not provide for any possibility of withdrawal. Russia has never officially done so, it is only rhetoric that they do not recognise it. One party's argument regarding any contract that it does not care and does not recognise it does not render the contract null and void. So we have a valid border agreement, and according to international law, all occupied and annexed areas belong to Estonia. During the restoration of Estonia's independence, all the features of the Republic of Estonia, including the territory following the Tartu Peace Treaty, were re-recognised. So all these claims, as if we did not have a border agreement and we had to do something new, are completely unfounded and taken from the ceiling.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U92	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U93	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! It is clear that the proposed lowering of borders is the abandonment of territory. I guess we couldn't or didn't want to do better in the negotiations. But I'm interested in the sea. In what so-called dimensions was our fleet, including submarines, able to move during the first time in Estonia without conflicting with anyone? How did we modernize the border at sea, and what was it like in our time? Can you say anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U94	First of all, our skills in border negotiations. The fact is that after regaining independence, Estonia started negotiations with Russia precisely to restore the borders of Tartu's peace. At some point, the government adopted a decision, without asking the Riigikogu for the powers and mandate of the Riigikogu to abandon part of Estonia's territory. I treat it as illegal activity and decision, as arbitrary. As far as the sea border is concerned, yes, indeed, in the Estonian era the sea border was not precisely set, but there were maritime conventions and rules at the time. Later, during the Soviet era, the ESSR border was set at the median line of the Gulf of Finland, the central border. That's how it worked. The UN Convention on the Law of the Sea establishes exactly what the rights of merchant ships to pass through international waters are, there are no restrictions, especially in national territorial waters. This Convention also establishes the conditions for the passage of warships. There are no problems in this respect, it is internationally stipulated. While Estonia's independence, this Soviet border remained in place, there were no problems until, under the leadership of President Meri, Estonia made a voluntary self-limit, which was defended by the foreign minister Triviimi Velliste at the time. I would advise you all to read the verbatim report of this sitting, when the members of the Riigikogu tried to understand, with the help of questions, why we are pulling back our borders. Estonia also proposed this to Finland. There were no arguments other than that it was our voluntary self-limitation. In fact, we know whose interests such voluntary self-regulations are in, because the only country whose foundations are yet to sift through is Russia. According to international law, he should inform us every time his warship passes through here, his submarines should get up on the water, and so on. Apparently, then, the current solution was found to be better for someone. Whether it is better for Estonia to reduce its territorial waters, I very much doubt that. But as far as the new border agreement is concerned, compared to the border of the Soviet Union, we are transferring 350 square kilometres of circa to the territorial sea in the Gulf of Narva, which belonged to the so-called ESSR. If we follow Stalin's established ESSR border elsewhere, I wonder why we won't do it at sea. I hope I answered you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U95	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U96	Thank you. The previous speaker did think that the MPs could keep their mouths shut, but I think that a parliament with an open debate belongs to a sovereign state. Although it is sometimes difficult to listen to reports, I think that closed mouths are a value that we rather cannot share. We need to be able to talk to each other, even though the positions are different, otherwise we are really lost. The EKRE representative today spoke of the British Prime Minister, David Cameron, as a great example with whom EKRE has links. Cameron has made it clear that the United Kingdom supports same-sex marriage, but Putin's Russia is strongly harassing same-sex couples and closing the mouths. What values does the EKRE share with Putin, apart from vindication of harassment of same-sex couples?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U97	I can't tell you where you think that Putin and I share the idea that same-sex couples should be harassed. I don't know how to answer that question. It's completely arbitrary, it's provocative. No, there's nothing like that. I'm not gonna waste my time or my colleagues on this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U98	Thank you. Very good report! However, it is quite difficult to accept your thoughts, as you do not have such an ideological platform as British Conservatives or even Orbán Fidesz, but rather, politically speaking, the Jobbik, rather confusing, etc. I would like to discuss with you the trend towards the federalisation of Europe. At present, about 1% of Europe's gross national income is reallocated to the European budget. Seriously speaking of the Federation, 10% of total national income should be redistributed. Without financial resources, there is no point in talking about the Federation; it is then wishful thinking or certain unjustified alarmism. My question to you is, given your deep knowledge, where we could talk about the Federation in Europe. How much of the total national income should be redistributed through Brussels so that we can really say that this is a connection moving towards the Federation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U99	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U100	Juhan Parts has performed today as an excellent diagnoser. Yeah, kind of fun. But as far as the question is concerned, the Federation is not just about the redistribution of money. This is not the main feature of the Federation or even one of its most important features. The Federation has many other aspects. In particular, it is a matter of decision-making, the sovereignty of the Member States, etc. That's exactly what we've been talking about today. Over the last few years, we have seen quite clearly how the European Union is committed to federalisation. Several national competences have been concentrated in Brussels. It's not a secret to anyone that the goal is federalisation. At the same time, in today's Europe, we see that, just as the press towards federalisation is growing, opposition to it is growing. Actually, I don't think that's gonna work. This would lead to the dissolution of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U101	Thank you, dear waitress. The time for answering questions is over. I apologize to those ambassadors who did not have time to ask the question! Let's go to the negotiations. I'm opening negotiations. I would first like to ask the representatives of the political groups to register. It will then be possible to participate in all other negotiations. Please, Mart Nutt, the Fatherland and Res Publica Union!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U102	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I try to describe or describe the position of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union on the issue of sovereignty, in particular the question of Estonian sovereignty, but also our view of the European Union. Of course, we believe that an independent Estonian state is of value and we stand for independence to last forever. On the other hand, we are of the opinion that being a member of the European Union is not only useful to us, but also essential, because without the European Union, our independence would certainly not be as guaranteed as if we were a member of the European Union. Thirdly, we must play an active part in the process of shaping the European Union, because it is basically the only way in which we can influence the development of the European Union in a way that meets our interests. But when we look at the current European Union, the question arises as to whether it is a union, a federation or a union of states, or a society going from one state to another. I will bring out some features specific to the Federation and then let us see if the European Union is a federation or not. Sovereignty first. Sovereignty in the Federation is not shared; the state does not participate in international relations, but its questions fall within the competence of the State Union. The State cannot appeal to the international level to defend its rights, as this is an internal matter of the State Union. Indeed, there are some exceptions, such as the Åland Islands, but in the European Union sovereignty does not belong undivided to the Union; it is divided between countries and delegated to the Union only partially. Thus, the subject of international law is a Member State of the European Union and not the European Union, except on some of the individual issues that have been delegated. Today, the sovereignty of each country is limited internationally, a fact. This is linked not only to membership of the European Union, but also to the existence of the European Court of Human Rights, for example, the existence of the Hague Court and a number of other international instruments, which, as part of which, inevitably, have restricted their sovereignty. Hence the question of whether the meaning of the Federation has changed over time. It has changed, and I think it will. The European Union itself does not define itself as a Union State. No one at international level treats the European Union as a single country, but, for example, there are visa differences and different economic statistics, Member States have their own foreign representations. Moreover, the state generally does not have the legal right to leave the Federation; in the European Union this right is. Parallel to the Soviet Union certainly cannot apply here because we know very well that the right to leave the Soviet Union was only on paper. The Soviet Union was not a federation either, but was actually a pure-shaped unitary state. I would also like to give an example that there are at least three areas within the competence of the central authority in the ordinary, so-called traditional federation: finance, foreign policy and national defence. Finance is only part of the European Union's competence, which concerns monetary union. Foreign policy and national defence are not at all the competence of the European Union. Perhaps this is a problem, perhaps these areas should be within the competence of the European Union, but this is not the case at present. In addition, I would stress that, for example, the airspace is unified within the Federation and is part of the common government of the Federation, just as it is of the ground. In the European Union, these areas are the responsibility of the Member States. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U103	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U104	I will touch on another issue, 'common values'. I think that the various peoples have a great deal of common values. The Estonian people share values with the Russian people, the Arab people, as well as other European peoples. However, when we talk about the common values recognised by the countries, I think we should be relatively careful. For example, we compare the values of Estonia and the Russian state. Unfortunately, we have to admit that respect for the sovereignty of other countries is not one of the values of the Russian state, but respect for sovereignty is one of our fundamental cornerstones. We can also look for common values on religious grounds. Then why not ISIS? At least between Russia and ISIS, a rhetorical parallel can be drawn to the fact that both emphasise religious values. However, when we look at practice, we see that Russia and ISIS do not actually carry religious or family values at all. Both countries, ISIS is a terrorist organisation, but I believe it is atheists, not religious people. One is run by people from the Soviet Union's KGB background, the other by people with the background of Saddam Hussein's security service. Neither of them actually recognizes the family as a subject of society, but only as a means of exercising power. In Estonia, family is of value. It's very hard for us to find points of contact. This is clearly a value for the Estonian state. Neither Russia nor the ISIS have dared to point it out; rather, it is a change in the ambitions of power. If we sum up these values, then, I think, the value of Estonia cannot in any way be the murders and the subjugation of man to dictatorial ambitions, the defeat of other nations and the conquest of other countries. If we limit Estonia's values, we should still compare ourselves with democratic countries, not with countries where values exist only in rhetoric, but they are not taken seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U105	Thank you. Peter Ernits, the Central Party faction, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U106	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, the few who have remained in this Chamber! On November 16, this hall, as I said, was full of people and there was a lot of anxiety in the air. Today, unfortunately, this hall is awkwardly empty. I know perfectly well, as does my colleague Milling, that everyone has a TV in their office. I do, too, but I think it would be symbolically important if the other colleagues in this Chamber were, as a key national issue, to discuss Estonia's sovereignty. But that's my personal opinion. Perhaps you will remember that on November 10, British Prime Minister David Cameron sent out a letter and one of the four points of this disturbing letter concerned sovereignty. At the moment, all parties represented in the Riigikogu would have had an excellent opportunity to discuss it with the cards that were opened here. Moreover, when the British Prime Minister, at the end of his letter, expressed his hope that in December the European Union Council would discuss this letter, which has raised many questions, as well as such assessments, that it may have gone too far. We would have had this opportunity to discuss here today. Unfortunately, we have not taken advantage of this opportunity. Before 16 November, the same issue of sovereignty was discussed in Kadriorg Castle by the President of the Supreme Council at the time and the people who worked on the preparation of the Declaration of Sovereignty. It was done in the rose garden because it was hoped that there would be no microphones. At that time, a declaration of sovereignty was made. We are now in a completely different space of time; we are in the European Union; we are members of NATO. For the Centre Party, Estonia's sovereignty is the ultimate palace, but we should be discussing here and precisely here what, however, Estonia's sovereignty within the European Union could be, how far we could go by centralising. It's the same thing about federalism and confederatism. How much should we trust or should we trust Brussels and how much should we decide? How much should we agree to the Brussels directives, which come like Vändra to the lumberboards, and which often discusses that there is not much we can do, because there is a directive to come? How much can we do here and is this possibility even available in a situation where the free movement of people, services and capital is central? What should be the role of the mini-Parliament, or ELAK? How much should we discuss here in this big Chamber? Unfortunately, we have not done all this. We're sulking: You can't hang out with someone whose face doesn't like, whose uniform doesn't like. I think it's a little petty, we should be over it. We should talk a lot more about this. Just a few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U107	Three extra minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U108	Unfortunately, it is not possible to enjoy a conversation that I have previously had the honour to attend. I have heard very close discussions between President Arnold Rüütel and Jüri Raidla, a well-known lawyer on this very subject, whether we want a federation, whether we want a confederation, how we are moving this way and what this means to the Estonian state and Estonia's sovereignty. Strangely enough, Arnold Rüütel, thanks to whose persuasion skills we have largely reached the European Union, is now quite clearly on behalf of the confederative European Union. Such discussions could be much, much more. We should consider every question, every draft in this Chamber, when discussing these issues. Consider how this affects our sovereignty and our national flesh as well as our spiritual body. Because the body's dying, we know it perfectly. As far as the spirit is concerned, it seems to me that it is oppressed, but we are still a free country. The blue-black-white flag rises every morning and falls every night to rise again in the morning. Thank you to all colleagues who considered it necessary to be present in this debate in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U109	Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U110	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, thank the Free Party for the opportunity to perform! According to the wise provision of the Rules of Procedure, we as members of the Riigikogu do not, for some reason, have that right. I must admit that I have always felt some kind of difficult to explain when very abstract words are used, especially in foreign languages. I have to admit that I have heard the word'sovereignty' here today so much that I am beginning to think of more or less fishing muffled sayings, about that summer has passed and sovereignty has gone, too, so where we are, the autumn is probably coming to an end, and then perhaps the age of the talveräärusus should come. I would much rather not use words that are not very important in this context and may be more confusing. I imagine that there was basically a need to talk here about whether the Estonian state and its institutions have the right and the freedom to decide for themselves what they are doing, and if we say that we have this right, how we can put it into practice. I think the answer to the question of whether we have any right depends first on whether we say yes, we take that right. You don't have to ask anyone here for permission. It's still up to us. The other thing is how to start doing it on your own. As I jump to another topic, I have to admit that I did not like the general rhetorical method used by several rapporteurs today. I can't give it a specific name, but you all know it, it's everywhere in the Estonian press right now. Its formal sign is that the Estonian pronoun 'we', which can be used as both a long form 'we' and a short form 'we', which can serve as a basis, purpose or complement in the sentence, is used very much. So there were presentations here today where almost every sentence contained the word 'we', in some sentences immediately three times in a row. Having a discussion with this rhetoric makes it difficult for you to immediately recognize that a person uses these 'us' in every context in different ways. Sometimes it is an Estonian state, sometimes a government now in power or some earlier government, then suddenly it jumps to Estonian society and its problems, then to questions of Estonian history, from time to time it means the composition of the Riigikogu, etc. I would be happy to participate in all this kind of discussion if respected discussion partners would bother to speak a little more clearly. Each such 'we' can be replaced by another and more precise words in the sentence so that the listener can understand what is being meant. When I hear sentences where the word 'we' can mean this, the second or the third, it is not possible, however, even by asking questions, to enter the discussion, not to mention guessing thoughts, especially if you do not have telepathic abilities. The last issue I want to address is what is at a more general level the understanding of the time and place of the Estonian state and of who we are in this Chamber and who we are trying to do the work of the state. I propose such a solution that we, the Estonian people as Estonia, have reached the third period of our restored independence. These times mean some ten - year periods. The first ten-year period was very specific, it was a period of restoration of independence, which ended at the latest around 2003. Then came the next important period of our destiny, when Estonia's main goal was to become a member of the European Union not only in terms of a one-off act of admission, but in all practical applications of membership. This era should be over by now. As Estonians, as members of society, as statesmen, we should no longer have any doubt or excessive illusions about what the European Union is, what the strengths and weaknesses of this Union are. The question before us as politicians now is whether, as politicians, as Estonians and as citizens, we agree with the European Union as it is, or whether we aim to clarify the conditions under which we agree to be members of the European Union. The second thing is the clear position we take in the major political disputes within the European Union, the future of Europe. It is this practical question, not the meaning of what we mean in 2015, here and now, we give the word'sovereignty'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U111	Thank you. Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U112	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Sovereignty is, in fact, an easy word to understand. Sovereignty means whether I can decide in my own home as I see fit and whether I can carry out this decision as I see fit. A few days ago, I saw news that the Finnish Eduskunta, the Finnish Parliament, is starting debates on membership of the euro zone. It's sovereignty. Of course, the blender would say they were Russian agents, so Putin probably paid them for it. In Finland, 50,000 signatures were collected to start this debate with Putin paid! Finland's Eduskunta has, of course, become finlanded and is pursuing Moscow's policy because Putin paid. It's your spoiled fantasy, and you can, of course, slide on the surface of this fantasy here if you want. I'm talking about history to talk a little bit more about sovereignty. The civil war in the United States, perhaps the first modern war, a very devastating, very bloody war, broke out not only because of slavery, not just because of whether or not the southern states should have had the right to continue slavery. It was an incentive. The reason was that no agreement was reached on the rights of the federal government and states. The states, based on the Constitution, claimed that they had complete sovereignty to decide on the issue of slavery and not just on it. The central government claimed that they did not have that right. A very bloody war broke out that ended the way we know it. I will give you another example from history, perhaps the most instructive one for us. Ivan III, the Grand Duke of Moscow, married Sofia Palailogos, the niece of the last emperor of Byzantine. Sofia came to Moscow, by the way, through Tallinn, and when she had been there for some time, the Astrakhan Bascaki, or tax collectors, arrived from the Golden Hord. Ivan used to, inertly, I can't tell you why he was willing to pay their taxes, but Sofia said to Ivan: "Are you a self-governing or are you a Tatar puppet? You don't pay the tax and you take off those bazookas! " Ivan was a good man, and he listened to his wife's words, and the basques were beheaded. The war broke out, the Tatars retreated, and Ivan Ill became a sovereign. What does this teach us? It teaches us that we too need to be ready from time to time, naturally in a transferred sense, to cut off the heads, perhaps critically view directives, their interpretation, ways of implementing them, the trade in transition periods and many other things that a government that cherishes its sovereignty and the well-being of its people must do. It's the subject, not the one who gets the money from Moscow. By the way, I've heard that some of those who accuse us of having a good relationship with Moscow are paedophiliacs. I've heard that. You're welcome or you don't mind, but I've heard it. So don't throw accusations like that. Let me put it this way. Stupid people who don't have anything else to say, who have run out of arguments, they're throwing a Russian card at the table. Don't be silly! I'm not talking any further. Sovereignty is when we make our own decisions and when we make our own decisions. This does not mean, as has been tried again, to impose on us that we want to withdraw from the Union and that we do not share common values. It's just as stupid as that Russian card talk. We share values, we do not want to step out, but we do not want to be uncritical about the Hanses of Command.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U113	Dear waitress, would you like some extra time? Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U114	I did say I would stop, but still: sovereignty is a different meaning today than it was a hundred years ago, perhaps even a few decades ago, even 11 years ago, when we decided to join the European Union in a referendum. The world is changing with dramatic speed. By the way, the world is radicalizing faster than our party can radicalize. Let that also be said to you! We may be men with strong words and fists, but we can't keep up with the radicalisation of the world. This process is faster. In this situation, we cannot infinitely ignore the fact that the will of the people does not cost anything. Now there is the issue of immigration, which has already been touched on here. Yesterday, TV3 had a survey of whether the government's views on immigration were trusted. The government was trusted by 11% of those who called. It's a disaster, friends, it's a disaster! You have made either huge mistakes in communication, or the people are not going to support your views. 80% do not support ratification of the border treaty; 80% do not support the adoption of the Cohabitation Act. This is a disaster! People, understand, it's not possible to go on forever! It is not possible to continue, indefinitely, the kind of euro policy we are pursuing now, if we always put our sovereignty behind us and put Brussels's sovereignty first. This is not a sustainable policy. We need to think about it. The idea of our speech meeting today, if we may call it that, was to encourage people to rethink the policies that worked and applied so far and to listen more to the people, to debate and to argue. We are not saying that we have a monopoly on the truth, but we will not accept being struck here, as Marianne Mikko did, with a seal on our forehead 'You are Nazis, you are making torch trains! '. By the way, the first Nazi sits in Kadriorg because the victory parade takes place with torches, the fire is spread out with torches and the President of the Republic participates in it. So, friends, if the torch is Nazi, then go claim sovereignty with Kadriorg's hangers and scythes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U115	Thank you. Sven Mikser on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U116	To the previous speaker, who was so upset to organise the debate on a crucial national issue, I would like to say that it is not mandatory, it is also not possible to organise it. The chairman of the EKRE asked whether sovereignty was not important to other parties because there were so few people in the Chamber. I remembered a miniature of Juhan Viiding. The old teacher invited the children over, offered cake and walrus. Then the children sat nicely with their hands on their hands, but before they left, a girl hugged the teacher and said, "Teacher, teacher, dear teacher! After which the teacher looked critically at Viiding and asked: "Is Viiding not the teacher dear? ' Sovereignty is important to all of us. But I would also like to say to the previous speaker that, while we are talking about a sovereign decision to serve slaves, for example, this cannot be a sovereign decision according to the UN Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Luckily, you can't, because maybe some people would like to start running slaves. So we have certainly given up our sovereignty to some extent. The fact that international agreements take precedence over national law is one of the fundamental principles of international law, otherwise it would not make sense to conclude international agreements at all. So we give up sovereignty by entering into any international contractual relationship with other sovereign states. Sovereignty is never absolute, and sovereignty, in fact, in its original meaning, did not mean everyone's right to decide what he was doing in his own home. The first sovereigns, or those who had the highest decision - making power other than God, were, in fact, sovereigns, exclusive rulers. Yes, we have a sovereign nation according to the constitution, but it is not so obvious and uniform when it comes to sovereignty. Of course, the organisers of this debate must also be prepared to answer serious legitimate questions themselves without being upset. The question of whether Russia's support for Europe's extremist forces is a security threat is entirely legitimate. I am pleased that the speaker from this console has confirmed that, yes, he is also concerned. It's supposed to. Much of this hall was very cautious when one speaker spoke of the fact that we do not share common values with America and Western Europe, while we are bound by deep common values and fundamental principles with Russia. Of course, that worries us. The most fundamental mistake the EKRE speakers are making is that they think that these values, liberality, tolerance, are being imposed on us from somewhere, and we proclaim them against someone's will under pressure. I can assure you that this is not the case. I do, and I believe that most of the people in this Chamber want to live in Estonia, where no one is mocked, not stoned because of the color of his skin or his sexual orientation. This is what we really believe in deep down. Maybe it's hard for you to understand, but it is. I am pleased that, despite serious and passionate intellectual struggles and debates between moral conservationists and liberals in several European countries in the United States, most of our European partners and our Western allies share these same liberal values. Of course, you have the right to question and challenge these principles, which is the nature of democracy. But if you accuse us of bowing down to someone to take over some of the beliefs, principles and values of the Estonian people that contradict their own principles, then this is probably due to your corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U117	Thank you. The political groups do not want to negotiate any more. Do the members of the Riigikogu want a word? There's no call. We have concluded the debate on a key national issue. I would like to thank once again all the rapporteurs for their meaningful presentations and the members of the Riigikogu who took an active part in the debate. Before we go to our last item on the agenda, we must go through one vote. In fact, the Social Affairs Committee requests that the working time of the plenary session of the Riigikogu be extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Social Committee to extend the working time of the plenary session of the Riigikogu until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 50 members of the Riigikogu), with 3 abstentions, no one opposed. Today's sitting has been extended.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U118	Let us go to the debate on today's last item. The second reading of the draft Act 84 on the amendment of the Labour Capacity Allowance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. Jüri Jaanson, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Board, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U119	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by pointing out that the amendments to the Employment Capacity Allowance Act relate to the better implementation and implementation of the employment capacity reform starting next year. These changes must ensure a smoother transition from one social security system to another. One of the objectives of this law is to postpone the implementation of the labour capacity reform for six months, from 1 January to 1 July. Now I come to the second reading of the bill. The first reading of the draft Act amending the Employment Allowance Act and related amendments to other laws was completed on 21 October. The deadline for tabling amendments was set at 4 November. The Committee on Social Affairs started preparing its second reading on 27 October when it heard from all stakeholders who had sent proposals and comments on the draft. These included the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, MTÜ Pana Oma Meeled Tüüle, AS Hoolekandeteenused, Estonian Association of Municipalities with the Union of Estonian Cities, Data Protection Inspectorate and the Estonian Association of People with Disabilities. They were all heard at the meeting on 27 October. Our main focus was on how insurance companies, or the private sector, could gain access to the health information system. The debate developed between the Data Protection Inspectorate, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and representatives of insurers. In total, the second reading of the draft was discussed in a total of six sittings. The next debate took place on 9 November when we also discussed the amendments. 11 amendments were tabled within the deadline. In total there are 25 amendments, most of which are the Commission's own proposals, which have been tabled in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs. I will mention the most important of the amendments. I have already told you about the first one, it is about giving insurers access to the health information system. The fundamental question here is whether the private sector should have access to sensitive personal data. As a result of the longer discussion, the Commission considered that this access could not be granted, as insurers would be able to carry out their duties in other ways. Another major discussion developed over the employment allowance. The Commission's initial view was that the employment allowance should remain, even though some of its components, such as the travel allowance and the support for the equipment, have been withdrawn. However, we cannot overcome or reverse the fact that only 53 people, less than EUR 5 000, used employment support last year. At the same time, building up the information system needed to avoid duplication between the Social Insurance Board and the unemployment fund would require EUR 80000 This is not a reasonable cost and the Commission therefore concluded that the employment subsidy cannot be retained in the draft. At the same time, the Commission proposed to the Ministry of Social Affairs, as a compromise, to find funds from the budget for the Estonian Fund for Disabled People, in order to support those people with special needs who need resources to cover work-related expenditure and whose expenditure is not covered by the unemployment fund from other sources. One of the topics discussed was the introduction of people with partial employment capacity into the public sector, which the Central Party considers would be facilitated by amendments to the Social Tax Act, according to which social tax refunds would also be paid on public jobs. The Commission did not accept this. At its third meeting on 10 November, the Commission adopted procedural decisions. It was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for a second reading by 19 November and that the second reading be closed. Six members of the Commission voted in favour of this, and no one opposed it. On 12 November, the Social Affairs Committee held an extraordinary meeting in which it was discussed whether it would be possible to recover the disability allowance from the insurer responsible. On a proposal from the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Commission took the view that there would be no change, although the Ministry of Finance requested minor changes. The opinion of the Ministry of Social Affairs was that, as the issue needs to be further examined, the point remains in the draft that the disability allowance will be recovered from the insurer if a third party is required to do so. At its fifth session, on Monday 16 November, the Commission discussed the draft once again, and the problem of the Defence Forces came up. In particular, the representatives of the Ministry of Defence wished to exclude from the draft a section that obliges the Defence Forces to provide labour market services to conscripts. The Guard can't do that. The last meeting took place on Tuesday 17 November when it was decided to approve the second reading procedural documents for 6 and 3 members of the Commission. It was also decided that, once the second reading is completed, the draft should be sent to the third reading by 25 November and put to the final vote. This decision was taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U120	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Good questioners, questions are printed by the messenger in real time and are displayed on the waitress's monitor, so please ask questions at a calm pace and clearly speaking. Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U121	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question concerns the dates of entry into force of this law. Can you explain briefly? I see that this law is intended to enter into force in general on 20 December 2015, while there are a number of points that will enter into force ten days later, on 1 January 2016, and some parts will also enter into force on 1 July 2016. Can you explain why there is a difference in the date of entry into force?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U122	Thank you. The Act is currently due to enter into force on 20 December 2015, and in particular for the reason that, in principle, it will allow time for the entry into force of the Act on 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U123	Thank you. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U124	Thank you. You said that the decision to adopt the law, to declare it adopted, was made in consensus. This is definitely not right. The Centre Party has not voted in favour of the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U125	I was aware that 6 members of the Commission voted in favour of the adoption of the law and no one opposed it. In the second vote, when procedural documents were voted, 6 members voted in favour and 3 members of the Commission opposed. No one voted against the adoption of the bill as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U126	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U127	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, As a result of the reform, the local authority must ensure that...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U128	Good questioner, please ask very calmly so that we can display your question on the screen! If it takes more than one minute, nothing's broken.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U129	As a result of the reform, the municipality must ensure that a person who is partially working can enter the unemployment fund. This means that municipalities are partly obliged, for example, to provide transport, which creates difficulties especially in rural areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U130	Take a break. Please, continue now!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U131	How is this solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U132	This is a very much talked about in the Commission and also in the public. A new service, a travel allowance, has been created to give people access to the unemployment fund. There are actually many ways to get into the unemployment fund or communicate with the unemployment fund. It is possible to travel, but it is also possible to communicate using communication tools. It doesn't always have to go there.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U133	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U134	Thank you. Dear waitress, We proposed to amend the Social Tax Act so that legal persons governed by public law could also benefit from tax incentives. It was not considered important to support this. I was saddened because the entire Social Affairs Committee in the previous Riigikogu supported a similar proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U135	Good questioner, wait a minute! Could you repeat the question from the beginning?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U136	Since where?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U137	From the beginning. But please speak at a calm pace so that we can write a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U138	We proposed to amend the Social Tax Act so that legal persons governed by public law could also benefit from tax incentives. The Social Affairs Committee of the previous Riigikogu unanimously supported the same proposal, this time it was not supported. Could a good waitress explain why this change was not considered important?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U139	First of all, to clarify that the previous composition of the Riigikogu, of which I was a member, did not support it unanimously. Basically, it is public sector employees and double payment, raising money from one pocket to another and paying more. That's the financial side. The fundamental aspect is that the public sector as a whole must serve as an example in society. So the addition of such direct bonuses cannot be considered appropriate. Also, speaking of financial aspects, this tax credit would entail an additional very high cost to the state budget, which would be close to EUR 15 million or EUR 20 million in 2020. In principle, it cannot be considered as a viable advantage. Rather, it should be stressed that people with special needs are not worse than ordinary people as workers. In this respect, the public sector in particular should understand and set an example for the rest of society.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U140	Thank you. I ask the questioner to speak at a calm pace right from the start, because if the writer loses track of the question, he won't be able to do it again. Please, colleague Kersti Sarapuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U141	That's why I have the question written down so I don't lose the sequel myself. Mr President, thank you. Good colleague! The Estonian Chamber of Disabled People drew attention to a number of issues that raise problems when coordinating the draft. Among other things, a person in the order of the special care service must definitely start using the service within three months when the place is released. If he doesn't, he'll lose his place in line. Often, though, these things are not dependent on human will. Does it definitely have to be three months, and does it even need such a deadline?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U142	Thank you. An exemplary question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U143	Thank you for your question. I think that this question can be looked at on two sides. The Ministry of Social Affairs has made an extract of the reasons why people have been in line and explained this and have not started using the service, even though the place has become vacant for them. These reasons are not objective, but to a large extent entirely subjective. For example, people have asked to call themselves later, in one or two years, or have said that they will call and let you know when they are ready to start using the service. That's one side of it. The other side is when you say that people cannot plan their activities, because the queue is completely incomprehensible because there are people in line who do not accept this service. Public limited liability company Care services have pointed out that there is no clarity as to the place in which the person is in line and how long he should wait before receiving the service. Man doesn't know how things are gonna happen. In this sense, it is very important to organize this order so that both the person and the queuer are clearly aware of the place where the particular person who needs the service is located and when he will be able to receive the service.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U144	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U145	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The key to the success of the employment capacity reform is that jobs are being found for people. According to the plan of the Ministry of Social Affairs, at least 1000 people with reduced working capacity will have to be employed in the government sector in 2020. At the same time, the state plans to reduce the number of officials. It has been said that over 700 people will be made redundant next year. How do these figures and objectives match each other?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U146	I will start by saying that neither the employment of people with special needs in the public sector needs to be created specifically for them. That's not part of the plan either. The creation of a job in the public sector must be fully justified and filled by a qualified person. The question of whether he is a normal person or a person with special needs is irrelevant here. However, in order to set an example, the public sector has indeed set itself the goal of employing a further 1000 people with special needs during the next five years of the labour capacity reform. The point is that there will be no more jobs. People who work in the public sector still rotate. There's a lot of retirees, a lot of quitters. The recruitment of new employees is actually a continuous process. In this process, it can be stressed that if two candidates are equal in their qualifications and one of them is of special need, preference should be given to workers with special needs. Given the size of the Estonian public sector and rotation, this is a real task, despite the fact that the public sector needs to be consolidated in a larger way as a result of the population decline.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U147	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Marika Tuus-Laul, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U148	Ladies and gentlemen, Exactly a year ago, on 19 November 2014, the Invalid and Raw Labour Capacity Allowance Act was passed in this Chamber. This is despite desperate protests and general opposition. Apparently, the Reform Party needed to get a birdie in Brussels. This law was a typical example of what several ministers of justice have repeatedly emphasised that laws are being done in haste, sloppy and much, and Parliament cannot be critical enough to break out such drafts. Thus, the Ministry of Social Affairs immediately made an amendment to the law that had not yet entered into force at the beginning of the working hours of the new Riigikogu, i.e. it submitted a draft law to amend the laws on labour capacity reform. And, madman, this bill was also full of mistakes, and the Ministry, the Social Affairs Committee and the factions began to correct this correction again. We sat together for tens of hours, till late at night. We don't mind the job, but we had to do it because the ministry hadn't done its job. Each ministry official is responsible for some narrow section of work, but if you ask for more general information, you cannot answer even about the most important points. That is the mistake of our legislation, that things are matched, moved from one draft to another, combined, constantly changed the dates of entry into force, proposals for amendments submitted after the deadline, etc. We haven't seen ministers in the Commission in a long time, and that's better, because long ago they've only become political icons. What could the chairman of the committee ask his party minister? It is actually unusual that the Minister and the leader of the Commission are from one political party. At present, this is the case, for example, in the process of processing the Social Welfare Act. However, in several months we have come to the point that there will be a second reading of the draft law amending the Employment Allowance Act and, in this connection, the other laws. We consider what both the Commission and the opposition groups were calling for, and, of course, the Data Protection Inspectorate very categorically, for the amendment of the Motor Insurance Act, which would have given the insurance company direct access to the health information database, to be particularly important. I can't believe this passage was written into the law at the Ministry. A representative of the Data Protection Inspectorate said that a database containing the data of the most intimate and delicate sphere of a person, which has so far been accessible only to employees with special education, must under no circumstances be subject to the commercial interests of a private company. This would be a turning point for human dignity and even an outrageous one, stated the Data Protection Inspectorate. Moreover, we certainly cannot be satisfied with the abolition of the so-called 'employment allowance'. We believe that the travel allowance paid by the unemployment fund is not a complete replacement for the unemployment allowance, as the latter is still a permanent allowance. It is true that this support is difficult to obtain and requires a lot of paperwork. This is why few people used it, but the system could be improved, support should not be withdrawn. In the meantime, there was the hope that it would be kept, and the Commission itself proposed an amendment to this. However, as strange as it may seem, the Commission itself voted against its amendment, after the coalition and the officials had fought in the next room for five minutes. We are also very sorry that our proposal for a correction has been voted out, which would have encouraged people with partial employment capacity to become employed in the public sector, which we have always stressed the importance of. Our proposal was that the state could pay social tax for them, as it pays for many people. This would, in particular, allow public authorities and local authorities to recruit people with partial employment capacity. In particular, a change would help municipalities that already lack money. After all, this question was decided in the previous Riigikogu. Too bad it's gone like that this time. It remains to be asked how we can help people with disabilities, or people with limited working capacity, to work if we do not fight for job creation and do not contribute to it ourselves. This is the weakest aspect of the whole capacity reform. We can say that the laws on labour capacity reform, including the draft law amending the Employment Capacity Allowance Act and related amendments to other laws, have still been brought to the Riigikogu with major shortcomings. A lot of problems have been solved. I propose that we gather more interest groups and negotiate with the local governments. It hasn't really been done. I am not proposing to put this draft to the vote now, but I call on the chairman of the committee to do so. I've seen that he really wants to make this law better. Indeed, all this could be considered again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U149	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations, negotiations have been concluded. We will go to the examination of the amendments. 25 amendments to the draft have been tabled. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the member of the Riigikogu Monika Haukanõm, the position of the commission is to consider the substance. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the position of the commission is to consider the substance. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 10th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is fully taken into account. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 12th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Yes, please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U150	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to vote on Amendment 12.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U151	Thank you. My colleague Urve Tiidus, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U152	Thank you, manager. I would like to take a five-minute break on behalf of the group.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U153	Five minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U154	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the 12th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 11 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 47 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Let's keep going. The 13th amendment has been tabled by the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, the commission has not taken into account. The 14th amendment, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The 15th amendment, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. The 16th amendment has been tabled by the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, the commission has taken full account of it. The 17th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, and the Steering Committee has taken full account of it. I'm sorry! The 17th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group, and the commission has taken full account of it. The 18th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group, and the commission has taken full account of it. Amendment 19 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has taken full account of it. The 20th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, and the Steering Committee has taken full account of it. The 21st amendment has been tabled by the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, the position of the commission is not taken into account. Yes, my colleague Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U155	Thank you. Please put amendment 21 to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U156	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 21 tabled by Monika Haukamm, Member of the Riigikogu. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 13 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 44 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 22nd amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U157	Mr President, I would also like to ask you to vote on this amendment. Let's try it one more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-19_U158	Thank you. We shall proceed to the vote on this amendment. I shall put to the vote the 22nd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 15 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 45 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 23rd amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The 24th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The 25th amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. We have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 84. Second reading is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session of the Riigikogu is closed. See you in the next sitting! Closure of the sitting at 13.34 p.m.
