ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-19_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good guests! We will begin the session of the fifth working week of the IXth plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. There's no call. The Government of the Republic doesn't seem to want to hand anything over either. There's a message. It is very likely that the composition of Riigikogu XIII will be gathered in this Chamber at the end of March, so I would ask everyone who wishes to do so to clear their tabletops and drawers from the materials for this day. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 80 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 21.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-19_U2	Let's start working on the agenda items. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, initiated by Andres Herkel, member of the Riigikogu. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There are no requests, so we can go to the final vote. Dear members of the Riigikogu, Bill 774 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership, and before the final vote we do a verification of presence. 81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing. I will put draft 774 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. with 70 members of the Riigikogu against 1 and 2 abstentions. The draft law amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu, initiated by Andres Herkel, a member of the Riigikogu, has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-19_U3	Let's move on to the second item. The third reading of the draft Fisheries Act 801 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Dear Fisheries Friends and other members of the Riigikogu, would you like to negotiate as representatives of the political groups? There are no requests, we are going to the final vote. I will put draft 801 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 83 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. Draft Law 801 on fishing initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-19_U4	Let's move on. The third item is the third reading of the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, the draft law amending other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There are no requests, let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put a draft of 800 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 82 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. Draft 800 of the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and in this connection the Act amending other laws has been adopted as a law. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-19_U5	Let's move on to item number four. The third reading of the draft Act amending the Advertising Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Is there a desire to negotiate? No, I don't. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 780 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 58 members of the Riigikogu with 15 votes against and 2 abstentions. The draft Act amending the Advertising Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 780 has been adopted as a law. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-19_U6	Let's move on to item five. The third reading of draft Law 841 amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuel and the Tax Administration Act, initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Koka, representative of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union faction, please speak to the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-19_U7	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The IRL Group considers these improvements to be very good. However, as the home expenses of the Estonian people increase dozens of times this year in May, we do not consider it possible to support this bill. We can only promise one thing: we will support when the next coalition changes this law. The IRL is currently voting against this draft because it increases too much excise duties on fuel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-19_U8	Thank you. There's no more calls. I will close the negotiations, we will begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 841 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 47 members of the Riigikogu, against 16, no abstentions. Draft 841 of the Law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels and the Tax Administration Act, initiated by the Monetary Commission, has been adopted as a law. The fifth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-19_U9	Good fellows! Today's sixth item is the third reading of draft Act 843 on Supplementing the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No, I don't. Let's go to the final vote. The composition of good Riigikogu XII, I will put draft 843 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu, no one opposed, with one abstention. Draft Act 843 on Supplementing the Tax Administration Act, initiated by the Monetary Commission, has been adopted as a law. The sixth item is closed. There's a message for you. The President of the Riigikogu invites all members of the Riigikogu to gather in the vestibule of the Riigikogu building for a joint picture. Good fellows! Let me thank the people of Estonia who have entrusted the composition of XII here. I would like to thank all the members of the Riigikogu, my fellow Members, for the work done in this four year period and, of course, the servants of our Riigikogu! Thank you. I wish us all luck! The sitting is adjourned. [[Let's hear it.]] Closure of the sitting at 10.11.
